

1 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1635 words

HEADLINE: BUSH WILL MEET GORBACHEV TO GET 'BETTER ACQUAINTED' IN TALKS AT SEA NEXT MONTH;
'Interim' Sessions

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Saying he does not want to ''miss something'' in the rapidly shifting terrain of East-West relations, President Bush announced today that he would meet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union in December for two days of unstructured talks.
Mr. Bush said at a news conference that the ''interim, informal'' sessions with the Soviet leader, which would precede their ''full-scale summit'' planned for the late spring or early summer of 1990, will take place in the Mediterranean, alternating between American and Soviet naval vessels on Dec. 2 and 3. [Excerpts from the news conference, page A19.] Previous Meeting The meeting will be Mr. Bush's first with the Soviet leader as President. As President-elect, Mr. Bush met with Mr. Gorbachev on Governors Island in New York harbor last December.
Making a simultaneous announcement in Moscow, the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, said that while the main aim of the talks was for the two leaders to get to know each other better, they might also use the opportunity to provide ''directives'' to their foreign policy advisers, laying the basis for the 1990 meeting. 
The announcement of the December meeting, secretly arranged between Washington and Moscow in discussions going back to July, raised a number of questions about the Administration's handling of relations with the Soviet Union in recent months.
 
Quayle Urged Caution
If Mr. Bush's senior aides were aware of planning for the meeting, which the White House said they were, it was unclear why Vice President Dan Quayle publicly advocated a cautious approach to dealing with Mr. Gorbachev, and why Robert M. Gates, the deputy national security adviser, was prepared to give a speech last week that offered a gloomy assessment of Mr. Gorbachev's prospects for reshaping his country.
The Gates speech was canceled when Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d objected to it.
If plans for a meeting this year were developing over the summer, with general agreement by the end of August -the time frame described by the White House - it was also unclear why Mr. Shevardnadze rebuked Washington in September for failing to move more swiftly to deal with Mr. Gorbachev.
Mr. Bush denied any policy disagreements within his Administration, and said the idea for the December meeting stemmed from his desire to explore with Mr. Gorbachev the fluid political situation in Eastern Europe before they sit down for intense talks next year over arms control and other issues.
''I just didn't want to, in this time of dynamic change, miss something, something that I might get better first-hand from Mr. Gorbachev,'' said Mr. Bush said at the White House news conference.
Moving his hands past each other in the air, he explained, ''I don't want to have two gigantic ships pass in the night because of failed communication.''
The announcement of what the White House called a ''non-summit summit'' and what the Democrats called ''a saltwater summit'' reflected a softening in the public attitude of the President, who had said he would take a more skeptical and less ''romantic'' approach to Mr. Gorbachev than President Ronald Reagan did.
It also marked a new public stance on holding unstructured talks with Mr. Gorbachev, which the White House earlier in the year suggested would be unwise. Secretary Baker, in two recent speeches, called for a more active approach to dealing with Mr. Gorbachev, apparently reflecting Mr. Bush's view that a friendlier, faster pace on talks would benefit both sides.
 
'Put Our Feet Up'
President Bush said the shipboard meetings would not be negotiating sessions on arms control, but rather a chance for the two leaders to ''put our feet up'' and exchange views on a wide array of subjects, including the progress of Soviet internal reform, the changes in Eastern Europe and the state of the American and Soviet economies.
''Our talks will be informal in character, designed to allow us to become better acquainted with one another and to deepen our respective understanding of each other's views,'' Mr. Bush said in his opening statement. ''Neither President Gorbachev nor I anticipate that substantial decisions or agreements will emerge from this December meeting.''
Referring to economic assistance, Mr. Bush said, ''Maybe this is one of the items that we will be discussing.''
''What I want to make clear to Mr. Gorbachev,'' Mr. Bush said of perestroika, the Soviet program of economic and political change - ''and I don't think there's been a disconnect with the Soviets - is that we do want to see it succeed.''
 
A Matter of Soviet Pride
But the Soviets were sensitive on the point, and at the Moscow news conference today, Mr. Shevardnadze asked that reporters not write that his Government intended to ask for economic help to promote perestroika. The Soviets' plan must be carried out at home, the Foreign Minister said, and to suggest that they would appeal for American aid ''touches our national dignity.''
The President, whose cautious response to the changes in Eastern Europe has attracted criticism from Congressional Democrats and European allies, conceded that he has changed his mind about the pace and tenor of superpower progress.
''You know, there was one time when I felt that such a meeting wouldn't be productive, and I think it is going to be productive,'' said Mr. Bush, who was wearing a tie with an orange pumpkin design in honor of Halloween.
White House aides said President Bush and a handful of advisers - including the chief of staff, John H. Sununu; Mr. Baker; Mr. Quayle; Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser, and his deputy, Mr. Gates, and the press secretary, Marlin Fitzwater -have been secretly arranging the Mediterranean meeting for more than three months. And yet Mr. Bush did not object to the way that Mr. Quayle and Mr. Gates continued to express cautionary assessments of the Soviets.
 
Yea-Sayers and Naysayers
''The ratio of optimistic and pessimistic views with regard to the Soviet Union is constantly shifting,'' a top Bush official said. ''Just because someone acknowledges the presence of one or the other at any given time doesn't mean that there is any disagreement among us.''
Mr. Bush, who was warning the Western allies only last spring against ''a growing complacency'' about the Soviets, said today that his change of heart came after consultations with the allies in Europe and after watching ''the rapidity of change in Eastern Europe and the emergence of democracies in this hemisphere.''
Mr. Bush said that the shift to a higher gear was his own idea. The President, who likes to conduct an intensely personal style of diplomacy, either on the phone or face to face, said he decided that he needed to examine Mr. Gorbachev's agenda ''first-hand.''
''He's been feeling for a while that he should say to Gorbachev, 'Come on down and let's talk if you want,' '' a senior adviser said. ''But it's hard to find a venue where both parties could be relaxed.''
 
How It Began
Administration officials said that the President began thinking about a two-track strategy for an informal meeting and a formal summit with the Soviet leader in June, after his trip to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Brussels the month before. His belief that the time was right ''gelled,'' his advisers said, after a trip in July to Eastern Europe and his participation in the Paris economic summit meeting, where he talked to the leaders of the Group of Seven industrial nations about his plans.
His aides said he was also moved by his meetings with leaders in Poland and Hungary, including the Solidarity founder, Lech Walesa, and by their requests that he be more supportive of the Soviet leader.
His advisers said that Mr. Bush drafted a letter to Mr. Gorbachev proposing the meeting on Air Force One on his way back from the economic summit conference on July 18, and that Mr. Gorbachev accepted early in August. The two Governments exchanged a series of cables with suggestions about where and how the meeting could be conducted, and what issues it might encompass. But they were determined to keep it secret until the more substantive 1990 summit conference was announced.
Today's announcement fits a pattern established by the Bush White House. Whenever officials are pelted with criticism on a major issue, they huddle in secret and come up with a grand strategy designed to dispel criticism.
 
A Top Democrat Is Positive
The reaction from allies and Congress was largely positive. Asked if he felt that Mr. Bush had struck a blow against his reputation for timidity toward developments in Eastern Europe, the Democratic Speaker of the House, Representative Thomas S. Foley of Washington, replied, ''It certainly helps, helps in that direction.''
Although there are many details yet to be planned, the Bush advisers are determined that they not be ''sandbagged'' by the Soviets, as many American officials felt the United States was during the ''informal'' summit talks with the Soviets in Reykjavik, Iceland, three years ago when President Reagan almost agreed to a hastily improvised idea to abolish all offensive ballistic missiles within 10 years.
''If anyone is aware of the dangers of Reykjavik, it's Bush, who was Vice President at the time; Scowcroft, who criticized it at the time, and Quayle, who was a hawk in the Senate and was appalled by it at the time,'' a senior official said. ''We are all very alert to the fact that that is not the model to be followed. You'll see a lot of subtle effort over the next month to lay the groundwork for lower expections.''
Asked today if the Soviets would have any surprises in the Mediterranean, as they did at Reykjavik, Mr. Shevardnadze smiled and said, ''Let's wait and see.''

GRAPHIC: photo of John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, showing a memo from Marlin Fitzwater, left, the White House press secretary, to Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser. Robert M. Gates, deputy national security adviser, looked over Mr. Scowcroft's shoulder during President Bush's news conference yesterday (NYT/Jose R. Lopez) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); EUROPE (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); NAVIES (75%); POLITICS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (55%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); ROBERT M GATES (78%); 



2 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: BUSH WILL MEET GORBACHEV TO GET 'BETTER ACQUAINTED' IN TALKS AT SEA NEXT MONTH;
East Europe as Catalyst

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Eastern Europe has not been on the formal agenda of a Soviet-American summit conference since World War II, but it will certainly be a major topic when George Bush and Mikhail S. Gorbachev hold their shipboard summit meeting in December.
There seems little doubt that the sweeping changes in Eastern Europe were a catalyst for today's sudden announcement, and have come to dominate the East-West agenda even though both sides have agreed in advance that there will be no formal agenda when the two Presidents gather for an informal exchange of views.
What Mr. Gorbachev seems to want most of all - more, even, than the political lift the Mediterranean encounter might give him at home - is reassurance from Mr. Bush that the United States will not try to exploit the retrenchment of Communism for some strategic advantage.
 
Stunning Momentum in East
Mr. Bush, in turn, will want to know that Mr. Gorbachev is sincere in signaling that Moscow will let the changes in Eastern Europe go on without interference. 
Mr. Bush said today that his decision to meet the Soviet leader on an informal basis, contrary to Washington's long preference for well-scripted summit meetings, was driven in part by the stunning momentum of democratic movements in Eastern Europe.
''What changed my mind on it was consultation with our allies, the rapidity of change in Eastern Europe, the emergence of democracies in this hemisphere, and this concept that I just didn't want to, in this time of dynamic change, miss something,'' the President said.
 
German Reunification Raised
Events in Eastern Europe have moved faster than anyone in Moscow or Washington expected. They have included the rise of a Solidarity Government in Poland, the transformation of the Hungarian Communist Party and sudden shifts in East Germany that have brought the question of German reunification into the open.
The new East German Communist leader, Egon Krenz, arrived in Moscow today on his first foreign trip since he replaced Erich Honecker on Oct. 18.
More than anything else, East Germany, where throngs of demonstrators have been demanding legalized opposition groups, free elections and an end to censorship, has caught both superpowers unawares and increased the urgency of a calming conversation.
''I don't think anybody is quite ready yet for the German question,'' said Zbigniew Brzezinski, the former national security adviser, who is in Moscow as part of an academic delegation conferring with the Soviet experts about Eastern Europe.
''If reforms in East Germany take the shape of Hungary or Poland, then you have to ask, what is the point of East Germany?'' he added. That raises the prospect of East Germany's being absorbed into its western neighbor.
''I don't think they are ready for that,'' Mr. Brzezinski said. ''They see that sort of unification as much too premature and destabilizing.'' Soviet officials and American specialists say the Soviets are willing to see Eastern Europe move toward democracy and free markets, toward demilitarization and possibly even toward neutrality, as long as they do not see a threat to their own security.
 
'Finlandization Now O.K.'
''The Finlandization of Eastern Europe is now O.K. with the Soviet Union, without any concessions by the West,'' said Charles Gati, a professor of political science at Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., who is the leader of the American academic group visiting Moscow.
''Finlandization'' is often used these days to refer to Soviet satellites' evolving independent states, like Finland, that are mindful of Soviet security interests.
''All they ask of the West is to make sure it does not go beyond Finlandization into anti-Sovietism,'' said Mr. Gati, who predicted that the two leaders would discuss Eastern Europe in December.
For Mr. Gorbachev, summitry has been a way of creating an international calm that allows him to focus on his pressing domestic crises.
Ideally the Kremlin would like to see Western intentions reflected in concrete progress toward arms agreements, including both cuts in nuclear arsenals and reductions of conventional forces in Europe.
 
Warsaw Pact Restructuring Seen
Georgi K. Shakhnazarov, a close aide to Mr. Gorbachev who has specialized in Eastern European affairs, said in an interview today that Moscow was prepared for a ''restructuring'' of the Warsaw Pact, including the eventual withdrawal of Soviet troops from Poland and Hungary and guarantees that the alliance will not interfere in internal affairs of its members.
But he said this should be a mutual withdrawal negotiated with the West, rather than a Soviet retreat from the territory of its allies.
''The troops will be withdrawn, but it will be done within the framework of the all-European process,'' he said. ''From the standpoint of mutual confidence and stability, it would be much better for everyone if it happens on the basis of common consent, with participation of both alliances.''
Aside from arms control, Mr. Gorbachev may also want to clarify the motives behind Western economic packages aimed at Poland and Hungary, and to appeal for lowering of economic barriers between East and West.
Mr. Gorbachev will find the creeping Westernization of his allies somewhat easier to sell at home if he can argue that it may bring economic benefits here, such as loosening American restrictions on sale of technology and on Soviet participation in international trade and economic organizations.
 
Profits From the Imagery
Even if the shipboard meeting does not produce tangible agreements, Mr. Gorbachev can expect to profit from the atmospherics. The comforting imagery of the two men using warships for a friendly get-together, the language and gestures of mutual understanding, may make the helter-skelter transformations in Eastern Europe seem more manageable.
Mr. Bush has already demonstrated by his cautious diplomacy during visits to Poland and Hungary that he is sensitive to the Kremlin's feelings about Eastern Europe.
Mr. Gati, who has worked as a State Department consultant on Eastern Europe, said it was in the American interest, too, to continue this policy of reassurance. Otherwise, Mr. Gorbachev's easygoing policy might face a challenge from hard-liners here.
''It's not in our own interest now to rub it in,'' he said. ''Russia is retrenching, but we don't want it to happen so fast as to produce a counter-reaction here.''

GRAPHIC: photo of President Bush (NYT/Jose R. Lopez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (93%); HUNGARY (92%); POLAND (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 



3 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Congress Reach Accord Raising Minimum Wage to $4.25

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Ending a long political deadlock, the Bush Administration and Congressional leaders compromised today on an increase in the minimum wage to $3.80 an hour next year and $4.25 in 1991.
The minimum wage has been $3.35 since 1981.
The agreement came after President Bush accepted a steeper rise in the wage floor than he had wanted, and Congressional Democrats retreated from their opposition to a training wage for teen-agers below the statutory minimum.
 
Training Wage Is Spelled Out
The training wage would be $3.35 in the first year and $3.61 in the second. It could apply, under the agreement, only to workers ages 16 through 19 in their first job, and it could be paid to a particular worker for no more than six months. Opponents of a training wage have argued that it would exploit new workers and take jobs from established ones. Proponents maintain that a lower wage would encourage businesses to give young people a break. 
Republican lawmakers said they had put pressure on the White House to accept the compromise after Mr. Bush's decision last June to veto a rise in the minimum wage to $4.55.
''Many of us,'' said Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, ''felt this was not an issue where we ought to be standing up - holding up - a 30- to 40-cent-an-hour pay increase at the same time we're talking about capital gains, for instance.''
 
Awkward Political Position
Mr. Bush and Republican lawmakers have made a reduction in the capital gains tax rate their top legislative priority this year. Some Democratic critics of the cut have contended that it would primarily benefit wealthy taxpayers. Republicans said it was awkward for them politically to support that while opposing a wage increase for the lowest-paid workers.
As recently as his news conference this morning, the President was threatening to veto a higher minimum wage program. If it contained elements ''that I can't take, I'll send it right back,'' he said. Administration and Congressional leaders said the outline of the deal was reached Monday, and the compromise was refined today.
Mr. Bush issued a statement tonight saying that the agreement was ''consistent with the criteria I set forth,'' and that he was especially pleased by the inclusion of a training wage.
 
Defining a Training Program
If employers wanted to pay the subminimum to workers for more than three months, they would have to establish with the Labor Department that they were providing a genuine training program. The details of what would be considered a training program were still being drafted tonight.
John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, said the basic parts of the compromise were suggested to the White House last week by Lane Kirkland, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and were negotiated with Congressional leaders. The Kirkland proposal, Mr. Sununu said, ''was something we could live with.''
Mr. Kirkland issued a statement tonight welcoming the compromise and saying that the proposal for a training wage contained ''adequate safeguards so youth are not exploited and older workers not displaced.''
A spokesman for the United States Chamber of Commerce took issue with Mr. Kirkland. Bob Martin, director of the Chamber's employee relations policy center, said the higher minimum would ''leave hundreds of thousands of workers without their first job.''
''We were just cut out of the debate,'' Mr. Martin added. The first minimum wage, 25 cents an hour, was enacted in 1938, and the floor has been raised periodically since then. Since 1981, when it was increased to $3.35 from $3.10, consumer prices have risen by more than a third. Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who heads the Labor and Public Welfare Committee, observed today that if the wage floor had merely kept up with inflation since 1981 it would be $4.79 today.
 
Many Women at Minimum
The new rates would go into effect April 1, 1990, and April 1, 1991. In recent years, it has been legal to pay some students less than the minimum wage, but if the compromise approved today is enacted, it would be the first time the law has allowed a widespread subminimum.
About 4 million workers, out of the 60 million Americans paid by the hour, work at the minimum wage, and several million more earn less than $4.25. The Labor Department says more than three of every 10 workers earning the minimum wage are teen-agers, and 70 percent of the minimum wage workers are women.
An increase in the wage floor can be expected to have a ripple effect as higher-paid workers get raises to maintain the differential between them and the lowest paid.
Last year, House Democrats proposed an increase to $5.25 over three years. In his election campaign, Mr. Bush countered with a proposal for an increase to $4.25 over three years and a lower training wage for all workers.
 
Veto Was Sustained
In May, Congress approved a rise to $4.55 over three years with a limited training wage. The President vetoed the bill on the ground that it was inflationary, would slow economic growth and would cause a loss of jobs. Congress was unable to override the veto.
Democrats hoped to be able to use the veto as an example of how the Bush Administration was callous toward poor workers. But that argument did not seem to take hold until this fall, when the capital gains debate caught fire.
The compromise was announced by Congressional leaders at a news conference this afternoon, to the dismay of the White House. An Administration official who had been involved in the negotiations complained that ''the understanding was the announcement would be done on a bipartisan basis.''
 
Vote May Come Soon
Democratic leaders said they had no choice but to announce the deal since they were taking it before the Rules Committee today in preparation for a House vote as soon as Wednesday.
After the announcement, Labor Secretary Elizabeth H. Dole hurried to the Capitol to hold a news conference of her own.
In the end, both sides claimed credit. Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the Democratic leader, called it a ''victory for working Americans,'' and the Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley of Washington, said an increase in the minimum wage was ''a principal item on the Congressional agenda.''

GRAPHIC: graph of the minimum wage from '70 to '92 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); VETO (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



4 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Better Relations Depend on U.S., Deng Tells Nixon

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 31

 BODY:
China's senior leader, Deng Xiaoping, met with former President Richard M. Nixon today and told him that it was up to the United States to take steps to improve relations with China.
''Frankly speaking, the U.S. was involved too deeply in the turmoil and counterrevolutionary rebellion that occurred in Beijing not long ago,'' Mr. Deng said. ''China was the real victim, and it is unjust to reprove China for it.''
''We hope that China and the United States will solve as soon as possible the problems in their relations and will create a sound basis on which to promote future ties,'' Mr. Deng said. ''However, it is up to the U.S. to take the initiative. The U.S. is capable of taking some initial steps.'' 
The tough comments were the latest in a series of mixed signals from the Chinese.
 
'No-Holds-Barred Exchange'
On Monday, for example, the Government announced that martial-law troops would be withdrawn from Tiananmen Square and replaced by armed police officers, in a move apparently calculated to coincide with Mr. Nixon's visit and to show that life is returning to normal in the capital.
On the other hand, the troop presence outside the American Embassy has been substantially increased since Saturday, the day of Mr. Nixon's arrival, and an American diplomat said there had been an increase in harassment of United States diplomats and their dependents.
A member of Mr. Nixon's party who attended the meeting with Mr. Deng said it was a ''courteous but a very tough, no-holds-barred exchange.''
Mr. Deng seemed tired and not as fit as in other recent public appearances. Instead of walking out to greet his guest, as is customary, Mr. Deng remained at his chair and Mr. Nixon was brought to him. Mr. Deng, who is 85 years old, slurred his words and his hands trembled.
 
Gain Seen in Common Ground
Mr. Nixon, who is deeply respected in China because of his landmark 1972 Presidential visit, which began the process toward normalization of relations between Washington and Beijng, is on a private fact-finding trip to China. He is to report to President Bush on his return, and both sides seem to hope that the trip will improve Chinese-American relations.
''I have watched Chinese-American relations very closely for 17 years,'' Mr. Nixon told Mr. Deng. ''There has never been a more difficult crisis than at the present time in those relations, because this time the concerns developed not from those who are foes of China, but from those who are friends of China. It is very important in our talks, if we can examine those differences and repair the damage that has been done to the respect in the U.S. among China's friends for some of China's leaders.''
The meeting lasted for three hours, including lunch, and covered a range of subjects, including the violent suppression of the democracy movement in early June, Chinese-Soviet and American-Soviet relations, the changes under way in Eastern Europe and the prospects for further liberalization in China, said the member of Mr. Nixon's party who attended the session.
 
'Profound Disagreement'
After the meeting, Mr. Nixon told reporters that for all the disagreements between the United States and China, there is more common ground than at the time of his visit in 1972, and that this common ground can lead to a process of repairing relations.
''Today we have a profound disagreement about a very tragic incident, but that disagreement is not going to derail the relationship between these two countries,'' Mr. Nixon said. ''It should not. It should be discussed, and we should attempt to resolve it as well as we can. We must build from here. If we could do it in '72, we can do it now.''
This afternoon, Mr. Nixon also met with Jiang Zemin, the Communist Party leader. The member of Mr. Nixon's party said the discussion included topics like the military crackdown in early June, political and economic liberalization, China's business climate and Chinese university students here and abroad.
 
U.S. Shrugs Off Accusations
WASHINGTON, Oct. 31 (Reuters) -The United States is not especially concerned about Deng Xiaoping's charge that Washington was involved in the June unrest in Beijing, a State Department official said today.
The official, who asked not to be identified, said increased Chinese security around the American Embassy in Beijing may have been the result of Halloween festivities at the embassy but was without justification and amounted to harassment of Americans.
He said United States officials would be watching to see whether Chinese leaders heeded Mr. Nixon's advice that the two countries had to work together despite differences over the killings near Tiananmen Square.

GRAPHIC: photo of former President Richard M. Nixon meeting yesterday in Beijing with Deng Xiaoping, the Chinese leader, (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); 

PERSON: NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS; DENG XIAOPING; KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D RICHARD NIXON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



5 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Beijing's Course: Spinning in Circles

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 31

 BODY:
The conventional wisdom these days, especially abroad, is that a circle of elderly leaders is dragging China backward toward a rigid planned economy, undoing many of the economic and political changes of the last decade.
But seen up close, China seems less to be marching backward than to be spinning in circles, in the view of many diplomats and Chinese analysts. They portray the still-fractured Communist Party as a millipede that has lost its sense of direction, and while the steps backward get the most attention, other limbs are digging in or even struggling to go forward.
One such limb is Wu Jinglian, a top economic adviser to the Government and a man who has proved himself to be committed to change. Last year, Mr. Wu lost the ear of the leadership because he was too radical; he urged allowing prices to float freely instead of being set by the state. Now, Mr. Wu appears to be very influential once more, and he is surprisingly optimistic. 
''We have two alternatives,'' he said in an interview. ''One is to let the economy move on toward market-oriented reform. The other is to strengthen administrative controls. I don't know which direction the leadership will take. But we can make use of the situation to carry out step-by-step price reform.''
 
Freeing of Prices Seen
Mr. Wu's point is that price restructuring is more of a possibility now than it was at the beginning of this year, because freeing prices is easier to accomplish when inflation is low. The Government has already brought transportation prices closer to market levels, and the Government spokesman, Yuan Mu, has said other prices would also be raised in coming years.
''The reforms that are necessary may be easier to carry out now than they were before,'' said Albert Keidel, who runs Rock Creek Research, a research concern in Bethesda, Md., that focuses on the Chinese economy.
Nicholas Lardy, a China expert at the University of Washington, said, ''I'm very skeptical of the view that reform is dead in the water for the next year or two.''
This relatively optimistic perspective is far from universal, and many young Chinese intellectuals brim with despair. But amid the crosscurrents there is an eddy of hope that seems to be little recognized by popular sentiment abroad.
''We are still at an intersection,'' a businessman said the other day. ''It's not over yet.''
 
Mixed Signals Abound
While the hard-line editorials get the most foreign comment, China's newspapers abound in mixed signals. Detecting a pattern to all this is a complex task. Almost no one predicted the democracy movement this spring, the subsequent re-emergence of the old-guard leadership, the violence of the crackdown or the rise of Jiang Zemin as Communist Party leader.
At least in the political realm, there is a limited consensus among diplomats and scholars about China's aims. While the experts disagree about how far the repression will go, most concur that the Government is determined to crush dissent and is adamantly opposed to further political liberalization.
But even in politics, there has been more talk than action - partly because of the widespread proclivity of Chinese officials to pledge allegiance to the new policy and then quietly do what was happening before. The first major call for a purge, for instance, came on June 25, and yet so far almost nobody has been drummed out of the party.
Culture Minister Wang Meng was pushed of office, and so was the Governor of Hainan, Liang Xiang. But the overwhelming majority of provincial leaders, Central Committee members and local cadres have emerged unscathed by the simple expedient of expressing enthusiasm for the new policies, Chinese and foreign analysts say.
 
Some Surprising Rises
Surprisingly, some people who were sympathetic to the democracy movement have even seen their status rise. Wan Li, a Politburo member who was in the United States when martial law was declared and who then breached orders by returning to China, has gained influence in recent months. And Rong Yiren, the country's best-known businessman, is believed to be under consideration for a major Government post, even though he apparently encouraged employees to support the movement.
In its comments on the economy, the Government has made clear its intention to reassert controls and slow down growth. Many Western economists are reluctant to criticize such steps. A period of retrenchment in which the economic base is enlarged and a legal and banking system are developed would be very useful, they say - if it was followed by further liberalization.
Liu Guoguang, one of the most influential economists these days as an adviser to the present leadership, also insists that the restructuring will continue. Instead of the rigid Marxist one might expect to find serving as an adviser to leaders like Prime Minister Li Peng, Mr. Liu is a thoughtful academic who argues that a pause for breath now is essential to build a base for further economic liberalization later on.
When the Government has put the economy in order in a couple of years, the restructuring will resume and accelerate, he said. He noted that the Government was continuing its experiments with stock markets, and he emphasized that it was not against further change.
''Both price reform and enterprise reform are unavoidable,'' Mr. Liu said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (67%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D



6 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1917 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Bush's News Conference on Plan to Meet Gorbachev at Sea

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Bush's news conference today:
 
OPENING STATEMENT
President Gorbachev and I will meet Dec. 2 and Dec. 3 aboard U.S. and Soviet naval vessels on alternate days in the Mediterranean. Our discussions will cover the current international situation and developments in U.S.-Soviet relations. And in view of the full-scale U.S.-Soviet summit to be held in the United States during the late spring or early summer of 1990, President Gorbachev and I have agreed that an interim informal meeting at this time would be appropriate. Our talks will be informal in character, designed to allow us to become better acquainted with one another and to deepen our respective understanding of each other's views. Neither President Gorbachev nor I anticipate that substantial decisions or agreements will emerge from this December meeting.
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Q. Mr. President, what do you hope to accomplish with this? I mean, is the economy going to be one of the main parts of the agenda or do you have arms control? 
 
A. I think there will be talk of a wide array of subjects without a specific agenda. And this is what I proposed to Mr. Gorbachev several months ago, after our return from the Paris Economic Summit. We've been working on this all that time.
I made the proposal to Mr. Gorbachev. And I'll say this, they immediately and enthusiastically - he did -thought this was a good idea.
 
The Soviet Economy
 
Q. There's been some speculation that a meeting of this type might be intended - an idea to revamp the Soviet economy. Are you trying to get some ideas together to go to this meeting with some type of proposal like that?
 
A. Well, I'm sure that now that the meeting is announced, there will be an awful - many suggestions as to the subject we should discuss. . . . But there's not going to be an agenda or meeting that could be seen to fail or succeed on whether we make agreements of this nature. That's not what this meeting is about. And so, the President - President Gorbachev -will have been in Italy, and it seemed like a very convenient way to do this. But there's not going to be - there's nothing off the table, nothing on it. It's not going to be an arms-control meeting. Clearly, the summit will drive the arms control agenda.
 
Gorbachev's Changes
 
Q. How do you assess Mr. Gorbachev's reforms? Do you think he's in trouble?
 
A. I want to talk to him about their economy, our economy, a wide array of subjects. And we have - I've said over and over again, we want to see perestroika succeed. And they know this. There hasn't been a disconnect.
 
Bush's Plan for Meeting
 
Q. Now that it's out, sir, could you tell us a little bit about the steps that led to this, your proposal, how and when it was made, and so forth?
 
A. Well, I did say that I made the proposal - I believe it was in July -in writing to the President, and then got a very prompt response, and then we've been going back and forth at that level, and then it's been discussed by the Secretary of State and Mr. Shevardnadze, the details worked out.
 
Q. When was it agreed upon?
 
A. Oh, a month ago, I'd say.
 
Q. Mr. President, since July, several of your very top officials have said publicly that they didn't see any value in having a summit if it couldn't be carefully prepared, absolute guarantee of success with some kind of a serious outcome. You're saying that's off.
 
A. Well, they weren't speaking for the President. I've told you what I think.
You know, there was one time when I felt that such a meeting wouldn't be productive, and I think it is going to be productive, but it's not going to be an agenda meeting. We first set the summit. That will drive the arms-control agenda. That's out there with a date on it - rough time frame on it - and the other is rapid change going on. I now have a much clearer view of how our allies feel on East-West relations. We've got problems in this hemisphere that I want to discuss, and so the two are not inconsistent.
 
Arms-Control Issue
 
Q. Mr. President, the last time there was a summit like this was in Reykjavik, and it evolved into a rather free-wheeling arms-control negotiation that caused consternation in Europe, because at one point, we were talking about eliminating all nuclear weapons, which Europeans felt would give the Soviets an advantage because of their preponderance of conventional superiority. What guarantees are there that that won't happen at this meeting?
 
A. Well, because it's - neither side thinks it's going to happen, and we have a summit, an arms-control summit, a summit which will be dominated by arms-control issues already established, separate and apart, and the Soviet leader and I both understand the kind of meeting we want to have, so I don't think there's any confict there at all.
 
Support for Gorbachev?
 
Q. Mr. President, is one of your purposes in having this meeting to give Gorbachev a political boost at home?
 
A. No. I hadn't particularly thought about that. If it does, fine.
 
Groundwork for Talks
 
Q.Mr. President, to what extent have the events in Eastern Europe caused you perhaps to want to accelerate this? Or will that be a major factor in your discussions?
 
A. I expect there will be a lot of discussion of that. But, as I indicated, the genesis of this was in July when there was certainly change. We'd just come back, as you recall, from Poland and Hungary. And there's been a lot of dramatic change since then - in Germany, some moves in Czechoslovakia. So things have moved, but I can't say that it, that the meeting was predicated on the change in Eastern Europe solely.
 
Stance on Eastern Europe
 
Q. You say this pre-summit summit is not meant to bail out Mr. Gorbachev politically. How about yourself? You've been criticized by the Democrats for being too timid toward Eastern Europe and toward Gorbachev, helping him with perestroika. Do you think it will help you?
 
A. That's not why we're doing it, but if that should be the fallout, so be it. We've known what we're doing. We've been on this track for some time. I've elected to remain very quiet in the face of a good deal of sentiment that we were missing an opportunity. And that, that hasn't perturbed me because we've got good people that know what we're doing in terms of the Soviet Union. And if people see that a little more clearly now, so be it. That's a plus.
 
Accusations of Timidity
 
Q. It seems as though you're going there without any initiatives. And we're trying to read between the lines here. If that's the case, aren't you going to be accused once again of being timid?
 
A. Oh, I'm sure somebody'd politically accuse me of anything, I mean, but that's not the point. I tell you one thing, our allies will be delighted about this. They've just been informed this morning, and I guarantee you there will be enthusiasm through much of the free world and a lot of the rest of the world. But, look, I don't expect to have everybody that's been firing away at me up there jump up with joy.
 
Turnaround on Talks
 
Q. This is exactly the kind of meeting that you and your aides have been saying for months, you did not want, and it seems exactly the kind of meeting that Gorbachev, given his domestic troubles, needs very, very much. What changed your mind?
 
A. What changed my mind on it was consultation with our allies; the rapidity of change in Eastern Europe; the emergence of democracies in this hemisphere, and this concept that I just didn't want to, in this time of dynamic change, miss something, something that I might get better firsthand from Mr. Gorbachev.
 
Choice of Venue
 
Q. Mr. President, what made you decide to meet on a ship?
 
A. Well, we can do it without too much fanfare. . . . Where there's a relatively few number of people, not a lot of crush of bodies out there, and a chance to put our feet up and talk.
 
Summit Meeting or Not?
 
Q: Mr. President, between hemispheric summits and drug summits and Gorbachev summits and economic summits, you're doing a lot of mountaineering. Let me ask you this
 
A: This one isn't a summit. So scratch this one off your list of things to worry about. I've got to make that point over and over again. Summits take on a definition, an expectation of grand design and grand agreements, and that's not what this is.
 
Bush's East Bloc Vision
 
Q. Mr. President, one of the criticisms that's been made is - by the Democrats particularly - is that this is a really unique time for you, that after 40 years of calling for free markets and open society, that you have chance to perhaps cement some of these changes in the Eastern Bloc in Europe and in the Soviet Union. Do you have some kind of plan or vision for getting that accomplished? Is this part of it?
 
A. We're seeing it move, aren't we? We're seeing dynamic change, and I want to handle it properly. I want to do whatever the U.S. can do to facilitate these kinds of changes.
 
Gorbachev's Surprises
 
Q: Mr. President, you say you have confidence in the Soviets. What assurances do you have that you won't be surprised by something Mr. Gorbachev might bring to the table? It's widely believed that President Reagan was somewhat sandbagged in Reykjavik.
 
A: He's free to bring anything he wants. There's no agenda. But there's - the idea that arms control - we might be surprised on arms control. I don't worry about that because we've got an understanding that the already announced summit meeting will handle those items.
 
The Gates Speech
 
Q. Mr. President, were you upset at all by Secretary of State Baker's . . . (This portion was inaudible on tape, but refered to Mr. Baker's supression of a speech by Robert Gates, the deputy national security adviser.)
 
A. I've discussed this matter with Mr. Baker, and Mr. Gates, and Mr. Scowcroft, even discussed it with Marlin Fitzwater. Don't say I don't reach out . . . We've got a good, strong team coping with these problems, and you - the degree in which Bob Gates and the Secretary of State are together, and Brent and John Sununu. Why, it's - we've been very lucky. And so, I don't get all exercised about that kind of thing. I know everybody else does around here, but I don't.
 
Outlook for Gorbachev
 
Q. Mr. President, as recently as this summer, some of your senior advisers, dare I say some in this room, were expressing doubts that Gorbachev would survive all of his internal political difficulties. Did you ever share those views? And has anything happened - what has happened to turn you around?
 
A. Look, we are looking at everything we can regarding the rapid changes that are taking place not only in Eastern Europe but in the Soviet Union. And we've got very thoughtful people outside the Government that give me their opinions. And I don't think anybody has a corner on all the wisdom, but I can't speculate on that question. . . .
 
Q. But, sir, you wouldn't be meeting with him, of course, if you thought he was a goner. . . .
 
A. A goner, no, I don't - I don't -that word never entered my mind. So you know, you hear a lot of crosscurrents about how successful perestroika is going to be. But one thing you get from all the Soviet leaders is, ''Look, the clock isn't going to be set back and we are going to go forward with perestroika.'' . . .

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 



7 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: In Seattle Mayoral Race, a Sense of the Possible

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Oct. 31

 BODY:
If this city is America's most livable metropolis, as two publications recently concluded, there is scant evidence in its first wide-open campaign for mayor in 12 years.
As in most American cities, the issues here are crack in the neighborhoods, gridlock on the freeways, racial tensions and a declining public school system. What may be different about Seattle is that none of the problems are considered insurmountable.
Two City Hall veterans, Douglas N. Jewett, who is 42 years old, and Norman B. Rice, 46, are vying to succeed Mayor Charles Royer, retiring after three terms to head the Institute of Politics at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. 
 
Each Would Break Ground
If Mr. Rice, a City Council member since 1978, is elected, he would become the first black mayor of Seattle, a city with a black population of about 10 percent. Mr. Jewett, who has been the City Attorney for 11 years, is seeking to become the first Republican mayor in more than 20 years. The race is officially nonpartisan, and Mr. Jewett has downplayed his party affiliation in seeking to lead the Democratic city.
An old villain in the Pacific Northwest, Los Angeles, has been raised by both candidates as an example of what Seattle could become if measures are not taken to preserve the quality of life. To curb suburban sprawl and limit growth caused in part by an increasing number of Californian moving to the area, Mr. Jewett has proposed changing the zoning of certain areas of the city so they can be filled with apartment houses.
Both men favor mass transit, a combination of a new rail system with the existing buses, as a solution to clogged roadways, and say the city cannot expect any help from the Federal Government in putting together a system.
 
Each Has a Ballot Measure
Each candidate has championed a ballot measure to help his cause. Mr. Rice backs a proposal that would increase the city's business and occupation tax to pay for 102 more police officers, which he says should be enough to make most neighborhoods feel safe from drug dealers.
The centerpiece of Mr. Jewett's campaign has been a pledge to end the busing of schoolchildren to achieve racial integration. Since the program began in 1978, public school enrollment has declined by more than 20,000; fewer than 40,000 students attend public schools, half the amount of the early 1970's.
Parents have complained about two-hour, crosstown bus rides for a half-day of kindergarten and have criticized the school board for being intransigent. The busing measure has dominated the campaign thus far.
 
Schools 'in a Death Spiral'
Mr. Jewett helped draft an initiative that will appear on the ballot on Tuesday, the same day as the mayoral election, which would use city money to promote integration without busing. The schools, Mr. Jewett said, ''are in a death spiral.''
Mr. Rice, who ran for mayor in 1985, said he entered the race this year because he viewed the anti-busing intiative as a threat to racial stability. In July, he called the initiative ''a terrible new ingredient'' in Seattle politics. But he has since offered a plan to end busing in four years.
Although polls show the initiative has wide support, both of the city's daily newspapers have been highly critical of the measure. Seattle city legal officials tried, unsuccessfully, to keep it off the Nov. 7 ballot, challenging its validity in court.
Some of Mr. Rice's supporters have accused Mr. Jewett of playing to racial fears, comparing his anti-busing campaign to George Bush's use of Willie Horton, a black man who committed crimes after he was furloughed from a Massachusetts prison, in the Presidential election last year.
In one heated exchange last week, Mr. Rice accused Mr. Jewett of ''wanting to keep black kids on one side of town.'' Mr. Jewett replied that busing has fostered segregated schools because so many whites have left the system.
 
Making a Name in a Backwater
Raised in Chicago, Mr. Jewett graduated from Dartmouth College and Yale University Law School and came to Seattle in the 1970's. When elected City Attorney in 1977 at the age of 31, he quickly made a name for himself with an office that had always been a backwater.
He explored forming a third political party, and then became an early supporter of John Anderson, the former Congressman who ran as an independent candidate for President in 1980. Using the nuclear freeze movement as his main campaign theme, Mr. Jewett ran in 1982 as a Republican challenger to Senator Henry M. Jackson, who trounced him by a 3-to-1 margin.
As City Attorney, he drew fire for setting up police road blocks to stop drunken drivers and for organizing a campaign to outlaw posters on city telephone poles, both of which were criticized as violations of the Constitution.
 
A Broadcaster and Banker
Mr. Rice, raised in Denver, is a graduate of the University of Washington and worked as a broadcaster and a banker before entering city politics in 1978.
A rising star on the City Council, Mr. Rice found his career stalled following two lackluster campaigns, one for mayor in 1985 and one for Congress in 1988. Endorsed by Mayor Royer this year, Mr. Rice is just now starting to show some movement in the polls. The race is viewed as a tossup.
With its robust economy and relatively low crime rate, this city of 500,000 people is thought to be in good shape for the next 10 years no matter who is elected mayor. Money Magazine and Places Rated Almanac have recently called Seattle the most livable city in the nation, a mixed blessing for a city whose residents fear that excessive growth will lead to deterioration.
''We've got so much going for us -we're relatively new; everybody here seems to care passionately about the environment; the citizens are involved in a range of issues - that no problem seems unbeatable,'' said Mike Lowry, a former Congressman from Seattle who now teaches at Seattle University.

GRAPHIC: photos of Norman B. Rice; Douglas N. Jewett (NYT/Doug Wilson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (97%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SEATTLE (WASH)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BLACKS (IN US) MAYORS (95%); CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); BALLOTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); REFERENDUMS (85%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (76%); CHILDREN (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); POLITICS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); SUBURBS (72%); ZONING (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY; RICE, NORMAN B; JEWETT, DOUGLAS N; ROYER, CHARLES (MAYOR) TIMOTHY MILES BINDON 'TIM' RICE (71%); 



8 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: How Yonkers Can Move Forward

 BODY:
General election contests for mayor and the City Council give voters in Yonkers, N.Y., clear choices between the past and the future.
In 1985 Federal District Judge Leonard Sand found that Yonkers had deliberately promoted racial segregation in public housing and education for nearly 40 years. A voluntary desegregation plan has been instituted in the schools. But a majority of the seven-member City Council continue to resist the judge's order to build moderate- and low-income housing. 
Preoccupation with the housing issue distracts from Yonkers's considerable problems of economic development, crime and drugs. Moving forward aggressively will require new leadership. First and foremost that means re-election of the Mayor, Nicholas Wasicsko, a Democrat who has steadfastly and courageously argued for compliance with the housing order.
His Republican opponent, Henry Spallone, a retired New York City policeman, has been one of the most vocal and defiant Council members.
If Mr. Wasicsko is to be more effective, however, he will need like-minded new Council members. In the Second District we prefer the Democratic challenger, Ed Cousens, a financial manager, over the Republican incumbent, Peter Chema, a businessman who has opposed the housing order.
Another defiant Council member, Edward Fagan, a Republican, faces a credible challenge in the Sixth District from Ralph Ferraioli, an insurance company executive. Mr. Ferraioli, a Democrat, deserves support for his sensible emphasis on communication to make the housing remedy work.
In the Third District, the Democrat Barbara Cola seeks to fill the seat held by her late husband, Charles Cola. Her Republican opponent, John Spencer, seems more focused on carrying out the housing order and on sound fiscal management.
Seeking the Fourth District seat previously held by Mr. Spallone are Elliott Palais, Democrat, a university administrator, and Salvatore Sialiano, Republican, a businessman and former policeman. Mr. Palais offers more enlightened leadership. In other Council races, we are pleased to repeat September primary endorsements of Joe Farmer, a Democrat, in the First District and Thomas Dickerson, a Republican, in the Fifth District.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YONKERS (NY)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; MAYORS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); JUDGES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); 

PERSON: WASICSKO, NICHOLAS C (MAYOR)



9 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: We Need a Federal Disaster Relief Fund

 BODY:
To the Editor:
May I offer a serious suggestion on how this country can create in advance the huge funds necessary for speedy reconstruction and rehabilitation after earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, forest fires, droughts and other natural disasters?
Government agencies and relief organizations often do not immediately have the enormous financial resources for the needs following a San Francisco Bay area earthquake, a Hurricane Hugo and other catastrophes, especially when they follow in rapid succession. 
Many agree with President Bush's adamant position on no new taxes. But who could object if the Federal Government were to create a national disaster fund to be drawn upon as necessary anywhere in the country. Such a fund could be created, for example, by increasing taxes on gasoline, cigarettes, liquor, beer and even possibily telephone calls, so that every taxpayer makes some contribution, even those who don't own a car, smoke or drink.
The fund would spare states and communities the crushing and often impossible burden of repairing their local infrastructures and economies without having sufficient resources available on the local level. The relief fund could also lessen the political rancor that too often follows a major emergency, as we are seeing in San Francisco.
Such a national disaster relief fund should be set up to be inviolate, and impervious to political machinations, much as the Social Security system is protected.
 
DAN WALLACK
 New York, Oct. 20, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (57%); 

SUBJECT: DISASTERS; FEDERAL AID (US) DISASTER RELIEF (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEATHER (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); FOREST FIRES (77%); FIRES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); FUEL TAX (70%); 

PERSON: WALLACK, DAN GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



10 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 7, Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: FOOD NOTES

BYLINE: By Florence Fabricant

 BODY:

Pre-Marathon Pasta On Saturday evening, more than 10,000 participants in the New York City Marathon are expected to do their carbo-loading at Tavern on the Green at the annual pasta party sponsored by Ronzoni Foods Corporation. They will dine on three dishes selected from more than 60 recipes submitted by restaurants last week in three categories: traditional, cold salad and vegetarian.
The winners were ziti with tomato sauce from Mamma Leone's in the traditional category, cold sesame chicken with fusilli from Sam's Restaurant in the cold salad category and rotelli with mashed potato sauce and tomatoes from the Quilted Giraffe.
For the pre-marathon dinner, 4,000 pounds of pasta will be served to the runners cafeteria-style in shifts, beginning at 4 P.M. The meal is free and open to all registered runners. 
In conjunction with the marathon, Ronzoni is also donating 14,000 pounds of pasta to City Harvest to help feed the homeless. The Business of Food The Roundtable for Women in Food Service, an educational group, will hold a seminar for would-be entrepreneurs on Monday at the Art Directors Club, 250 Park Avenue South (at 19th Street). Four women who have been successful in starting their own food businesses will offer insights and answer questions.
The program begins at 5:45 P.M. and includes dinner. Panel members are Stacy Bogdonoff, a partner in Neuman & Bogdonoff, a Manhattan catering shop; Susan Axelrod, who owns Love and Quiches Ltd., on Long Island, which sells foods to shops and restaurants; Julie Flik of Flik International Corporation, a food-service management company in New York, and Doris Simpson, who owns Muirhead, a restaurant in New Jersey.
Admission is $35 for members, $45 for nonmembers. For reservations, call 212-439-0580.
 
Survey on Beef
In a telephone survey conducted for the Beef Industry Council by the Gallup Organization this summer, 40 percent of 801 adults nationwide said they ate less beef than they did five years ago. Five percent said they ate more.
Of the respondents who said they ate meat as a main meal the day before, 52 percent said they ate beef and 29 percent said chicken. Yet, when asked whether they preferred broiled sirloin, broiled chicken or broiled flounder, about the same number (40 percent) selected beef as chicken (37 percent). Twenty percent preferred fish.
The responses indicate that people still like to eat beef despite concerns about fat and cholesterol, the council said. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 4 percent. A Spicy Chutney Two chefs, Eric and Jeanne Lewin of Easton, Conn., have adapted a family recipe and come up with a wonderful, mildly spicy, temptingly sweet and chunky chutney for fall menus. Called Pomerals Country Chutney, it is made with peaches, apples, dates, pineapple, onions, peppers and raisins and is seasoned with vinegar, brown sugar and spices.
The chutney is sold in nine-ounce jars for $3.95 at Le Petit Gourmet, 44-35 Douglaston Parkway, Douglaston, Queens, and at Lexington Gardens, 32 Churchill Road, Newtown, Conn. It is $4.50 at Made in Connecticut, 1 Liberty Street, Danbury, Conn. Debut of '87 Bordeaux A preview tasting of the 1987 Bordeaux vintage, along with a sampling of wines from the more highly regarded 1986 vintage, will be held on Nov. 13 at the Marriott Marquis, 46th Street and Broadway, from 6 to 8 P.M. This is the first time the Bordeaux Wine Bureau, a delegation of 26 producers, has opened its tasting to the public. The producers will be on hand to discuss their wines.
For tickets, which are $35, call the International Wine Center at 212-268-7517 or send a check to the center, at 231 West 29th Street, Suite 210, New York, N.Y. 10001.
On Nov. 14, Daniel Beck, an expert on Scotch whisky, and his associate, Roger Parson, will hold a tasting of single-malt Scotches at Harvey's Chelsea Restaurant, 108 West 18th Street, from 7 to 9:30 P.M. They will begin by giving a history of Scotch whisky, then guide the group through a tasting of the various styles of single malt, or unblended, whiskies.
There will also be a tasting of Scottish foods, including meat pies and haggis. The cost is $50 a person. Advance reservations are required. Checks may be sent to Spirited Tastings, 5608 Riverdale Avenue, Bronx, N.Y. 10471. For more information call Mr. Beck, 201-440-9299, or Mr. Parson, 212-796-8034.
 
Helping Those With AIDS
SOME of the proceeds from ''The Open Hand Cookbook'' (Pocket Books, $18.95), a collection of menus and recipes contributed by 63 California chefs, will benefit Project Open Hand, which provides meals for people in San Francisco with AIDS.
Robert C. Schneider, a chef who has served as a volunteer for the project, compiled and edited the collection. The well-detailed recipes are easy to follow and organized according to seasons.
Among the inviting menus for fall is Paul Bertolli's salad of fennel, mushrooms, Parmesan cheese and white truffles, followed by duck legs braised with onions and cabbage. For dessert, there are Seckel pears poached in red wine with burned caramel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FLIK INTERNATIONAL (54%); GALLUP ORGANIZATION (53%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD RESTAURANTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); MARATHONS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); WOMEN (72%); RETAILERS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); BEEF (67%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (62%); HOMELESSNESS (53%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE



11 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 20, Column 6; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Warner Brothers Plans To Distribute 'Roger'

 BODY:
''Roger and Me,'' the darkly comic documentary film about unemployment in Flint, Mich., will be commercially distributed by Warner Brothers, the film company said Monday.
''Roger and Me,'' which was critically praised at the New York and Toronto film festivals, will have its premiere on Dec. 22 in theaters in New York, Los Angeles and Toronto, and will be released in additional theaters around the country in January and February. 
A Warner Brothers executive, who asked not to be identified, said Warners had paid $3 million for the worldwide distribution rights.
''Roger and Me'' is the first film by Michael Moore, who is the movie's writer, narrator and sometime protagonist. The film, which shows the effects of recent General Motors Corporation plant closings in Flint, was made for $260,000. Part of the funds for the film came from a weekly bingo game in Flint.
As part of the deal, Warner Brothers and Mr. Moore will each contribute $25,000 to pay for housing for homeless families in Flint.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ROGER AND ME (MOVIE)

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); FLINT, MI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: WARNER BROTHERS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLINT (MICH)

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); CLOSINGS (88%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (88%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); FESTIVALS (71%); FAMILY (64%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MOORE (70%); 



12 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
A California savings executive paid himself and his family $34 million from Lincoln Savings and Loan in the three and a half years before its demise, Federal regulators said. [Page A1.]
The Bush Administration and Congressional leaders agreed to raise the minimum wage to $3.80 an hour next year and to $4.25 in 1991. [A1.] Democratic leaders offered a deal that would permit prompt passage of a debt-limit bill and allow a vote on cutting the capital gains tax. [D2.] 
The Government's chief economic forecasting gauge inched up 0.2 percent. [D1.] Sales of new homes fell 14 percent in September. [D6.] Prices paid to farmers for raw products rose 0.7 percent in October. [D6.]
 
International
Boeing has invited Japan's three largest aerospace companies to join it in a $4 billion project to build a passenger plane. [A1.] Fujitsu will give up a contract to design a large computer system after a rare Government rebuke. [D5.]
Many people in Japan are surprised by what they consider an odd deal, Mitsubishi Estate's agreement to purchase control of Rockefeller Center and other properties. [D1.] Business and political leaders expressed concern about the deal. [D7.]
The British Government said it was willing to lift a restriction barring anyone from buying more than 15 percent of Jaguar. [D1.] Nigel Lawson challenged Prime Minister Thatcher to swallow national pride and let the pound be linked to other currencies. [D8.]
The Soviet Union has established its first banking unit in the U.S. and hopes to use it to raise money. [A18.]
 
 
 
Companies
Georgia-Pacific offered $3.1 billion for Great Northern Nekoosa. The unsolicited offer was the first big takeover proposal since a $6.75 billion bid for UAL fell through last month. [D1.]
Avon expects fourth-quarter sales to drop $58 million, citing price increases much higher than the company had planned. [D1.]
Beatrice priced $250 million in ''junk bonds'' but was forced to scale back the offering by $100 million. [D17.]
Gulf Power pleaded guilty to conspiring to make secret illegal campaign contributions to political candidates. [B7.]
Sea Containers will sell half of its assets and use some of the proceeds to buy back seven million shares. [D4.] Unocal will spin off nearly all of its Midwestern operations into a joint venture with the Venezuelan state oil company. [D4.]
E. P. Dutton's adult publishing division will be integrated into Penguin USA, which acquired Dutton two years ago. [D19.]
 
 
 
Markets
Stock prices advanced broadly, and the Dow Jones industrial average surged 41.60 points, to 2,645.08. [D10.] Prices of Treasury notes and bonds were unchanged to slightly higher. [D17.] Yields were down on C.D.'s and money market accounts. [D21.]
The dollar ended higher against leading currencies in quiet trading. [D16.] Prices of pork belly futures soared. [D16.]
 
Technology
Hydrogen is the logical fuel for the future, once a variety of problems can be solved. [D9.]
A portable process has been developed for removing gasoline from soil and burning it with a minimum of air pollution. [D9.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Shaken by the jeremiads from economists? Wait a while; they will change their minds. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
First Bank System and Norwest, both in Minneapolis, are by no means identical twins. Market Place. [D10.]
A jury's decision in favor of Bette Midler has stirred concern among advertising and entertainment lawyers. Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); FUJ (LSE) (56%); 6702 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (56%); FUJITSU LTD (56%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (53%); PENGUIN GROUP (USA) INC (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BONDS (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (71%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (68%); JOINT VENTURES (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (61%); CONSPIRACY (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (57%); PUBLISHING (50%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%); 

PERSON: NIGEL LAWSON (54%); 



13 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Many Japanese Wary On Mitsubishi U.S. Deal

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 31

 BODY:
During the last few years, as Japan's larger real estate companies poured billions of dollars into overseas investments, the prestigious Mitsubishi Estate Company stood apart, being content to collect rents from its vast holdings at home and to watch their value soar.
Now that the century-old real estate giant, one of the wealthiest investment institutions in the world, has taken its most significant step abroad with its acquisition of a 51 percent stake in the Rockefeller Group for $846 million, many in Japan remain just as surprised by what they consider an odd deal.
The complicated deal leads Mitsubishi into some problems, and it will possibly have its shareholding diluted in 11 years to less than 20 percent. $1.3 Billion Mortgage A real estate investment trust sold in 1985, Rockefeller Center Properties Inc., owns a $1.3 billion mortgage on the key property of the group, Rockefeller Center. That trust's holdings can convert into a 71.5 percent interest in the group in the year 2000, which would leave Mitsubishi holding 51 percent of the remaining 28.5 percent stake. To counter such a conversion, it might be forced to buy back the shares in the trust owned by the public, and this could be expensive. 
Thus far, some of those shareholders have not been very pleased with their investments. A Manhattan lawyer familiar with the situation said today that while ''you could probably count the unhappy stockholders on one hand,'' there was a stockholder suit pending against Rockefeller Center Properties in the New York State Supreme Court that was filed four years ago.
The suit charges that the real estate trust's original offering documents were false and misleading in that they did not mention that NBC was thinking of leaving Rockefeller Center. The investment trust maintained that it had complied with all disclosure requirements. Eventually NBC decided not to move.
The trust's units closed today at $19.75 a share, up by 25 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange. The units had an original offering price of $20 a share four years ago.
 
Cash Flow Committed
While Mitsubishi gets enormous prestige from owning a piece of Rockefeller Center, the center's cash flow is entirely committed to the investment trust until the year 2000 and the bulk of Mitsubishi's real assets in the deal come from only three properties that are not part of the trust: the Time & Life Building, half of the McGraw-Hill Building and vacant land behind the Exxon Building.
Since Mitsubishi owns 51 percent of the Rockefeller Group, it owns 51 percent of the Time & Life Building, 51 percent of the group's half interest in the McGraw-Hill Building and the vacant land. Of course, if it buys out the trust's holders over the coming 10 years, it would own considerably more of everything.
Mitsubishi also faces the prospect of a backlash from Americans tired of seeing well-known United States assets acquired by wealthy Japanese interests. People involved in the planning for the deal said that Mitsubishi was initially planning to acquire 80 percent of the Rockefeller company, but agreed to take only 51 percent, with the prospect of an increase later, hoping to mute public reaction in the United States.
 
A Modest Impact
All this is for an investment that will have a modest impact at best on a company whose assets are worth, by one estimate, a mind-boggling $84 billion. The company also faces a huge job back home: it is planning a 30-year, $45 billion redevelopment of its choicest but aging properties, as it struggles to remain competitive in the dynamic Japanese real estate market.
''Mitsubishi Estate has been slower than everyone else in moving overseas, but they are so rich that frankly they don't need to do anything,'' said Alan Woodhull, the real estate analyst for Merrill Lynch Japan. ''And now they're stepping into one of the touchiest properties in New York. I mean, Rockefeller Center's where New York puts its Christmas tree.''
Still, Mitsubishi has proved its naysayers mistaken in the past by taking the long view. The Rockefeller Group could prove an excellent partner for future developments in the United States, a point emphasized by the company today at a news conference.
''This is a long-term propostion,'' said Jotaro Takagi, president of Mitsubishi, who added that the two had discussed co-development ideas in the past. ''We are participating in the future of the Rockefeller Group.''
 
Important Break in 1890
The company got its most important break in 1890, when it acquired most of what is now called Marunouchi from the Japanese Government. It was marginal land located at the northern end of the Imperial Palace gardens in central Tokyo, but Mitsubishi was patient.
After the war, as Japan's economy went into high gear, Mitsubishi developed row upon row of elegant office blocks, some elegant and some unexciting, most of them without the retail shops and neon of many other central Tokyo districts.
The buildings filled up and the value of the land soared, particularly when a real estate boom got under way in the 1980's. The company now manages nearly 2.5 million square meters of floor space, of which it owns 95 percent.
Today, the vacancy rate is about one-tenth of 1 percent. Mitsubishi listed its total assets at $8.2 billion as of March 31, but that vastly understates the market value of these properties, analysts said. The extraordinary inflation of Tokyo real estate prices over the last decade has brought enormous wealth to Mitsubishi.
 
Asset Value of $84 Billion
Mark Brown, the real estate analyst here for Barclays de Zoete Wedd, estimated Mitsubishi's total asset value at about $84 billion, at current market values, of which more than 90 percent is in Tokyo. Mitsubishi Estate's assets are shared in part with other members of the Mitsubishi group of financial and industrial companies, which directly own more than 20 percent of Mitsubishi Estate.
''I couldn't believe'' the $84 billion number ''when I first saw it,'' Mr. Brown said.
Mr. Woodhull of Merrill Lynch said, ''I don't think anybody really knows because the numbers are so theoretical.'' But he added that it was at least $22 billion, and likely much more. The reason for this huge variance is that there are very few purchases of property in Marinouchi to give some reflection of the values in this prime area.
Mitsubishi Estate also has relatively little debt. Its long-term debt stood at only $2.7 billion as of the end of March.
 
Steady Stream of Profits
As a result, the company has a reliable and steadily growing stream of profits. It had a net income of $270 million for the fiscal year that ended March 31, at the then prevailing exchange rates. Its revenues stood at $2.1 billion.
But all that wealth has brought some headaches. First, Mitsubishi has several big new developments under way, including construction of a 73-story tower and complex in Yokohama. Analysts said, though, that it has few such projects relative to its size, and that few will be coming on stream in the next few years.
Second, its holdings in Maranouchi are in need of a major revamping. Many of the structures, none of which rise much more than 10 stories, are aging quickly. And in addition to the physical deterioration of the area, Mitsubishi commands rents in the area that are, on average, about half of the top market level for new space, analysts said.
''The most they can hope for is an increase of around 15 percent or so every two years,'' said Mr. Brown of Barclays de Zoete Wedd. ''At that pace, there is no way they can catch up with what they would get for a new building.''
 
Push to Decentralize
The problem with the redevelopment of Marunouchi that Mitsubishi has planned is that the city of Tokyo and the national government are pushing hard to decentralize, not build concentrations of skyscrapers downtown. There is governmental resistance to allowing Mitsubishi to construct taller buildings.
Mitsubishi seems to be unfazed by these problems and it clearly knew of the Rockefeller Group difficulties, but went ahead nonetheless. The people involved in the deal said that the company leaped at the opportunity almost as soon as it was offered in September, knocking several other large Japanese real estate companies out of the running.
''An investment opportunity arose,'' said Mr. Takagi, Mitsubishi's president. ''We considered it and made a decision.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Jotaro Takagi, president of Mitsubishi Estate, and Raymond F. Pettit, a vice president of the Rockefeller Group, appeared yesterday at a news conference in Tokyo to discuss Mitsubishi's acquisition of a 51 percent stake in the Rockefeller company. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. D1); graph of the net income for Mitsubishi from '85-'89 (source: Mitsubishi Estate) (NYT) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8802 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (93%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (93%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (93%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (93%); SIC6514 OPERATORS OF DWELLINGS OTHER THAN APARTMENT BUILDINGS (93%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (93%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (93%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (93%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (93%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (84%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO LTD (93%); ROCKEFELLER CENTER PROPERTIES INC (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKEFELLER GROUP INC; MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; ROCKEFELLER CENTER (NYC)

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); LAWYERS (66%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES



14 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Tabs on the Mega-Shoppers

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WALTHAM, Mass., Oct. 31

 BODY:
Warren E. Norquist may not cut much of a figure at the local mall, but he was clearly born to shop. As worldwide director of purchasing and materials management for the Polaroid Corporation here, he spends $900 million a year, nearly half the money taken in by the large camera, film and electronics company, with the energy and sophistication of a teen-ager buying clothes or videotapes.
In purchasing everything from gum arabic to advertising to elevator maintenance, Mr. Norquist not only has a major impact on the success of Polaroid, but provides clues to the future course of the nation's economy. His activities and those of his counterparts at other industrial companies are tallied monthly by the National Association of Purchasing Management for its Purchasing Managers' Index. 
This seven-year-old index, published the first business day of each month, has gained growing prominence over the last year or two as economists and the securities markets strain for the first glimpse of the next recession.
 
'Secret Weapon in Forecasting'
The sharply increased attention to the purchasing index comes as the manufacturing sector it covers continues to shrink as a portion of the total economy. Some top economists, however, have long found the index's data on orders, production, inventories, employment and the speed of deliveries by suppliers to be highly useful.
The late Walter W. Heller, a former chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, once described the report as ''the most reliable single indicator and for many years my secret weapon in forecasting.''
Wednesday's reading is widely expected to be the sixth consecutive report below 50 percent, the point separating business expansion and contraction.
''Things are slowing down right now, not precipitously but there are places,'' Mr. Norquist said, citing the lack of bottlenecks in the supply chain and the unsolicited price cuts being offered by vendors fearful of losing business. Although prices are not a component of the index, they are included elsewhere in the trade association's report and are closely scrutinized for signs of the inflationary pressures that encourge stockpiling.
About half the $900 million that Mr. Norquist spends each year goes for materials used directly in Polaroid products; the other half is for things like buildings, equipment, services and goods consumed in production or offices.
 
No Sign of Stockpiling
There is still no sign of corporate buyers seeking to stockpile goods before prices go up, Mr. Norquist said, though certain products, like the titanium oxide Polaroid uses for its film, are in tight supply.
While the purchasing association refuses to identify any of its survey participants, and Mr. Norquist will neither confirm nor deny a role, he is widely assumed in the industry to be one of the survey respondents.
Mr. Norquist, a 58-year-old native of Jamestown, N.Y., with an engineering degree from the University of Michigan and a degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, heads a department of 160 people that includes 80 professional buyers, three of whom hold Ph.D's. He is considered a top practitioner of a craft that he and others contend is generally underappreciated in corporate America.
Even Polaroid, which appears to believe that good purchasing management can contribute to corporate success in ways not widely realized, does not list him among the top 20 officials named in its annual report. 8,000 Polaroid Vendors ''A lot of money is to be made in purchasing,'' Mr. Norquist said this week. Not surprisingly, much of the job of a purchasing manager is keeping track of prices and the availability of the items he needs.
In all, Polaroid deals with about 8,000 vendors, about 1,000 of whom sell product components, generating some 95,000 purchase orders a year. Some 275 suppliers are considered important, selling Mr. Norquist at least $250,000 worth of goods and services. An increasing number of suppliers, about a score now, are linked by computer to Mr. Norquist's department so that orders can be placed and confirmed almost instantaneously.
An industry committee, known as X-12, has facilitated this by creating a national format for such transactions. But corporate purchasing, with Mr. Norquist in the vanguard, is moving far beyond the notion, still widely embraced by governments and others, that price - assuming a certain quality - is nearly everything. Even for commodity products, like the methyl ethyl ketone that Polaroid buys in vast quantities, the aim is to cultivate long-term relationships.Mr. Norquist also expects suppliers not to gouge him when the market gives them the upper hand.
The key to successful purchasing, as in any negotiation, is to be well armed with facts. Typically this involves analyzing the supplier's own costs, the five major elements of which are materials, labor, factory overhead, general and administrative costs and profit.
 
Zero-Based Pricing
Believing that increases in the costs of any of these elements should not be accepted at face value as justification for an increase for the price of the product, Mr. Norquist has devised an analytical method he calls zero-based pricing, a first cousin to the zero-based budgeting once advocated by the Carter Administration.
One example of its successful implementation occurred when a supplier of compressed gas asked for a 20 percent increase based on higher electricity prices. Polaroid research found that while electricity had risen that much nationally, the supplier's own utility had not raised prices at all, and the increase for the gas was avoided.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Warren E. Norquist, Polaroid Corporation's director of purchasing and materials management. (NYT/Jim Bourg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PRD (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: JAMESTOWN, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: POLAROID CORP (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PURCHASING MANAGEMENT, NATIONAL ASSN OF; POLAROID CORP

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (91%); PHOTOGRAPHIC CHEMICALS & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RETAILERS (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); RECESSION (75%); INFLATION (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ELECTRONICS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; NORQUIST, WARREN E



15 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Indicators Rose 0.2% In September

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
In a sign of continued but slow growth, the Government's chief economic forecasting gauge inched ahead two-tenths of 1 percent in September for its second straight monthly advance.
The Commerce Department said today that the September increase in the index of leading indicators followed an advance in August of five-tenths of 1 percent, slightly higher than the gain of three-tenths of 1 percent initially reported. The often-volatile index was unchanged in July, down from the one-tenth of 1 percent increase originally reported.
Though the index of leading indicators showed sluggish growth, analysts expressed concern about how the economy would fare in the immediate future. 
''The economy looks very soft right now,'' said Bruce Steinberg, senior economist for Merrill Lynch Capital Markets in New York. The next few months ''will be a period of vulnerability,'' he added.
Underlining that worry, the Commerce Department also reported that sales of new homes plunged by 14 percent in September, their steepest decline in nearly eight years. But some of the analysts said the housing sector was stronger than the report suggested.
 
Wage Costs Up 1.6%
The Labor Department, meanwhile, reported that employers' costs for wages and benefits of workers climbed by 1.6 percent in the third quarter and by 5.1 percent in the last year, with health insurance premiums again raising benefit costs faster than salaries.
Four of the 12 forward-looking business statistics that make up the composite index of leading economic indicators contributed to its September gain.
The index that measures consumer expectations was the largest positive contributor last month and the primary cause for the August and July revisions, the Commerce Department said.
Other positive factors were an increase in the money supply, a longer average work week, as well as higher stock prices.
The other statistics pointed down, led by a decrease in manufacturers' new orders for consumer goods. That was followed by a decrease in manufacturers' unfilled orders, fewer orders for plants and equipment, fewer building permits and higher initial unemployment claims. Two other negative factors were faster vendor performance, meaning declining demand, and lower prices for sensitive materials, which indicated weakening demand.
 
Index at 145% of Base
The various changes left the index at 145 percent of its 1982 base of 100. So far this year, the index has fallen at an annual rate of one-tenth of a percent, compared with an increase of 3.8 percent for the first nine months of 1988.
The economy has been slowing since the Federal Reserve Board acted last year stem inflation. But while inflation appears to be abating, the analysts said they were concerned that the Fed's grip could spur a recession.
Mr. Steinberg of Merrill Lynch and other economists pointed to excessive inventories and slackening orders for durable goods, including less demand for new automobiles, as primary threats to the economy because both could lead to growing unemployment and stagnant growth.
 
Trade Deficit Concerns
The economists are also concerned about the nation's trade deficit, which increased in August after falling for two straight months, and declining corporate profits, which could affect stock market prices.
Mr. Steinberg and Lawrence Chimerine, the senior economic adviser for the WEFA Group Inc., an economic forecasting group in Bala-Cynwyd, Pa., noted that the consumer confidence category was the primary positive indicator in the September index.
Consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the nation's economic activity, accounted for much of this year's growth so far.
 
Leading Indicators: Component Analysis
 
Components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from April to May.
 
Average workweek of production workers in manufacuturing
Contrib. to Index: +0.07
 
Average weekly claims for state unemployment insurance*
Contrib. to Index: -0.03
 
New orders for consumer goods and materials, adjusted for inflation
Contrib. to Index: -0.21
 
Vendor performance (companies receiving slower deliveries from suppliers)
Contrib. to Index: -0.05
 
Contracts and orders for plant and equipment, adjusted for inflation
Contrib. to Index: -0.06
 
New building permits issued
Contrib. to Index: -0.02
 
Change in manufacturers' unfilled orders, durable goods
Contrib. to Index: -0.11
 
Change in sensitive materials prices
Contrib. to Index: -0.01
 
Index of stock prices
Contrib. to Index: +0.01
 
Money supply: M-2, adjusted for inflation
Contrib. to Index: +0.16
 
Index of consumer expectations
Contrib. to Index: +0.31
 
Leading Indicators Index, percent change
Contrib. to Index: +0.21
 
*Series is inverted in computing index; that is, a decrease in the series is considered upward movement
 
Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis

GRAPHIC: Graph of index of 11 leading indicators designed to ''lead'' overall economic activity (source: Commerce Dept.) (NYT) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (57%); MER (NYSE) (57%); 8675 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); WORK WEEK (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); BUILDING PERMITS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); 



16 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
What Crisis In Productivity?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
SHAKEN by the latest jeremiads from economists? Wait a while; they are bound to change their minds. The latest target for revisionism is the productivity crisis, the declining rate of growth in output per worker that, some argue, is transforming America into a nation of poorly paid burger flippers and Toyota salesmen.
''Productivity and American Leadership'' (M.I.T. Press, $29.95), a reassessment by William Baumol and Sue Anne Batey Blackman of Princeton University and Edward Wolff of New York University, musters impressive evidence suggesting that the lag in productivity is temporary and that Japan's challenge to American supremacy will run out of steam.
The depressing numbers are real enough. Productivity growth has indeed slumped since the mid-1960's. But the authors say the figures have been bouncing around a trend of about 2.2 percent annual growth for the last century. And a half-dozen previous slumps were deeper, if not longer. It is thus plausible, though not provable, that this latest bad patch is a rebound from a productivity boom after World War II. 
The downturn in productivity would probably not have drawn so much attention if it had not been accompanied by more direct signs of economic senescence - the rusting of the steel belt, the rise of low-wage service industries, the invasion of high-technology markets by the Japanese. But here, too, the three economists assert, there is less to worry about than meets the eye.
Sectors of the economy that had traditionally led in productivity are still leading, and still doing well. Paradoxically, it is the spectacular growth in output per worker in manufacturing in the 1980's that generated the sense of malaise.
Pressed by foreign competition, American industry plowed tens of billions of dollars into new machinery and technology. Manufacturing employment fell as companies automated, but total output rose. Manufacturing productivity actually gained more in America between 1979 to 1986 than it did in West Germany.
What, then, explains the huge shift of jobs into service industries, or the loss of world market share in high technology? Unlike manufacturing, productivity gains in services come slowly, or not at all. As the authors point out, it takes as much labor today to play a Scarlatti sonata on the harpsichord as it did in the 18th century.
Thus, while the share of services in total output has not changed, the service sector has absorbed almost all the growth in labor supply since World War II. Japan's parallel shift toward service jobs started later. But between 1965 and 1980 the proportion of the work force in services rose by 30 percent - three times the rate in the United States.
Japan, the authors concede, has done spectacularly well in increasing its world market share of technology-based exports from 7 percent in 1965 to 20 percent in 1984. But most of Japan's gains did not come at America's expense. The United States slipped from 27 to 25 percent, while the combined share of West Germany, Britain and France fell from 35 to 29 percent.
The most soothing argument offered by the three authors is the convergence theory. It is only natural, they claim, that once-poor economies are catching up with America. They are in the best position to exploit technology invented elsewhere. Moreover, their citizens have far more pressing reasons for thrift, creating the pool of cheap capital needed to use the imported technology. Once these countries achieve affluence, it is argued, the worm will turn.
What the three economists do not say is that the economic pessimism that has infected Americans has little to do with productivity statistics and a lot to do with their own experiences. And here, one suspects, much of the personal malaise comes from the failure to protect the losers from the consequences of rapid economic change.
The drop in manufacturing employment may, for example, be a healthy consequence of overdue automation. But that is no consolation to a rubber worker who ends up driving a delivery van at half the pay. The return to technical training may have gone up. But that is no consolation to a 19-year-old who lacks the money - and perhaps the intelligence - to become an engineer.
Does America have a productivity problem? As the three economists convincingly argue, no one really knows. But many Americans certainly do have a problem making ends meet, and they are only too willing to look for scapegoats.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER



17 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Offer a Deal On Gains Tax in Senate

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
In a move aimed at breaking a logjam on Capitol Hill, Democratic Congressional leaders today offered Republicans a deal that would permit prompt passage of a debt limit bill and allow a Senate vote on cutting the capital gains tax.
After a late afternoon meeting at the White House with President Bush, House and Senate Republicans made a counteroffer intended to insure that the capital gains vote would occur under more favorable circumstances. In an arrangement unlikely to please Democrats, the Republicans want to tie the vote to legislation on health insurance that has broad bipartisan support and is therefore less likely to be filibustered. 
The months-long battle over capital gains has complicated efforts to compromise on a deficit reduction package. Today's offer by the Democrats was intended to pave the way for agreement on that package, as well as some of the extraneous issues linked with it.
 
Home for Thanksgiving
Senators in both parties said that a major selling point of both proposals was the promise that Congress could adjourn before Thanksgiving.
The Democratic proposal would require Republicans to muster a 60-vote super-majority on capital gains and would prevent them from attaching the measure to other legislation this year if they failed on the first attempt, as Democrats expect to happen. By their own admission, Republicans remain shy of the 60 votes and have tried to attach the tax cut to unrelated bills where they would need only 51 votes.
The Senate Republican leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, told reporters today that while 60 votes were not in hand, he had not given up. The tone of Mr. Dole's remarks, however, suggested that he is looking for a way to convince the White House that it has is futile to press for a capital gains cut this year. ''Sooner or later you have to face up, you are going to need 60 votes,'' he said. Adding that a fight over attaching a capital gains cut to the debt limit bill would only result in a ''who blinks first'' contest, he said, ''that doesn't seem to be a very good strategy to me.''
The House has approved a temporary cut in the capital gains tax as part of its deficit reduction package, but there is no such measure in the Senate version. Last week, Republicans moved to attach the capital gains proposal to a bill providing aid to Poland and Hungary, and the Senate has stalled on that measure since then.
 
Parliamentary Tactics
Republicans and the Administration have argued that a majority of Senators favor a reduction in the capital gains tax, but that the will of the majority is being thwarted by Senate Democratic leaders using parliamentary tactics to prevent a vote on the substance of the proposal. Republicans may, however, have a difficult time in getting even 51 votes on the tax cut because many Democrats who would favor a lower rate are pledged to support the Democratic leadership on procedural votes.
The deal proposed by the Democrats also envisions swift passage of economic aid to Poland and Hungary and separate congressional action on child care assistance bills. Changes in the catastrophic health insurance program would be handled as part of the deficit reduction package, as would the extension of a variety of popular tax breaks due to expire this year and the repeal of a 1986 tax provision barring discrimination in employer health benefit plans. It is these proposals that the Republicans want to package with the capital gains cut.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; NATIONAL DEBT (US); HEALTH INSURANCE CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); TAX LAW (91%); DEBT CEILING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); THANKSGIVING (68%); APPROVALS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



18 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Are Concerned About Rockefeller Deal

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 31

 BODY:
A Japanese developer's purchase of the majority interest in Rockefeller Center and other mid-Manhattan properties stirred concern today in business and political circles that were already apprehensive about the recent negative publicity over Japanese acquisitions in the United States.
Government spokesmen repeatedly emphasized that, as was the case in the Sony Corporation's purchase of Columbia Pictures last month, the Mitsubishi Estate Company's proposed purchase of the Rockefeller Group was not a hostile act but one invited by the American owners.
''We are monitoring reactions very carefully in the United States,'' said one Japanese official, asking not to be identified. ''We can easily see an emotional wave coming out as a result of this deal.'' 
 
Sensitive Trade Talks
For several months, Japan has been in delicate trade negotiations with the United States. Japanese officials acknowledge that the bargaining is complicated by heightened American sensitivity to Japanese real estate purchases.
In the last year, business leaders have been informally cautioned by the Government to avoid buying ''conspicuous'' properties in the United States, to avoid just such a negative reaction, Government officials say.
Earlier this year, for example, an official at a large real estate development company that is a rival to Mitsubishi Estate said it had been asked not to bid for the Sears Tower in Chicago because of the growing sensitivity of Japanese holdings.
''In principle, business is business,'' said a Japanese business official, who also asked not to be identified. ''That's a Japanese philosophy, too. But I think Japanese businesses should be more conscious about their moves to avoid apprehension from the American people.''
 
Biggest U.S. Investment
According to a recent survey prepared by the United States Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis, Japan has the largest direct foreign investment in American commercial real estate than any other country - $10.017 billion worth in 1988, compared with $515 million in 1983.
This figure excludes Japanese holdings in American corporations, either minority or majority shares, and such other matters as the intangible accumulation of general influence. The figure also leaves out joint ventures, including several automobile factories in North America that Japanese experts say will lead to the production of as many as 2.3 million Japanese cars each year in the next few years.
Japanese officials and business executives were taken aback by the negative publicity surrounding Sony's $3.4 billion deal for Columbia Pictures, after which some commentators asserted that the American reaction amounted to racism toward the Japanese.
 
Extensive News Coverage
This evening, Japanese news organizations, including all the primary news shows, featured the proposed purchase of Rockefeller Center as a integral part of their presentations. Several of the shows featured maps of Manhattan, with colored buildings showing the extent of Japanese holdings.
Reports were also taped or filmed on Monday night from Rockefeller Center in New York City, including man-on-the-street interviews with passers by, some of whom looked incredulous when informed by a Japanese correspondent about the purchase.
''What?'' said one New Yorker. ''I don't believe you.''
The correspondent said Rockefeller Center was ''a symbol for New Yorkers and for most Americans'' that contained ''the most beautiful illuminated Christmas tree in the West'' and that public reaction was certain to be negative.
At a news conference this morning, after the deal was disclosed in New York, officials at Mitsubishi Estate and the Rockefeller Group emphasized that the same people who managed Rockefeller Center and the group's other valuable mid-Manhattan properties would continue doing so.
Another example of heightened business concern about the purchase of American businesses and real estate was the creation last month of a Committee on Public Affairs at Keidanren, the largest Japanese business association, which recently urged that Japanese businesses investing in America take steps to become ''good corporate citizens'' there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8802 (TSE) (92%); SON (LSE) (84%); SNE (NYSE) (84%); 6758 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (92%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (92%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (92%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (92%); SIC6514 OPERATORS OF DWELLINGS OTHER THAN APARTMENT BUILDINGS (92%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (92%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (92%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (92%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (92%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO LTD (92%); SONY CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKEFELLER GROUP INC; MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; ROCKEFELLER CENTER (NYC)

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RACE & RACISM (61%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R



19 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 11, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Minnesota Banks Go Different Ways

BYLINE: By Eben Shapiro

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS

 BODY:
FOR decades, First Bank System Inc. and the Norwest Corporation, two large banking companies based in Minneapolis, were so similar that they were often referred to as the Minnesota twins. But these days, the twins are by no means identical. ''They're kind of like Arnold Schwarzenegger and Danny DeVito,'' said Ben Crabtree, a banking analyst at Dain Bosworth Inc. in Minneapolis, referring to a movie comedy last year about twins with strikingly different physiques and personalities.
Norwest, after struggling for much of the 1980's in the shadow of its rival, is now flexing its muscles and has turned in nine straight quarters of record earnings. In turn, First Bank, which not long ago dazzled the investment community with its unorthodox approach to banking, has stumbled badly. 
''They never seem to be clicking at the same time,'' Mr. Crabtree said. ''There is a historic tendency for one to be up when the other is down.''
Thomas K. Brown, an analyst at Paine Webber Inc., said: ''The joke in the investment community is that you usually buy one and sell the other. That's been a pretty good investment strategy for the 80's.''
First Bank, currently the unloved twin, reported dismal third-quarter results last month, barely posting a profit for the period. Earnings were $6.1 million, nearly an 87 percent drop from the $46 million it reported a year earlier.
For much of the decade, however, it had prospered under the guidance of its former president, Dennis E. Evans. Under Mr. Evans, a securities analyst by training, First Bank ''had a much broader view of the type of earning assets it could put on its books,'' Mr. Crabtree said. He steered the bank into new areas like merchant banking, capital markets and, most significantly, bond trading. Mr. Evans ''took it away from a deposit-and-loan-driven bank to one that basically thought of itself as kind of an arbitrager in the money markets,'' Mr. Crabtree said.
That strategy led to First Bank's well-publicized fiasco in the bond market. After several years of strong earnings, fueled largely by bond-trading profits, Mr. Evans finally bet the wrong way on the direction of interest rates, leading to a $300 million loss and his resignation in 1988.
DeWalt H. Ankeny Jr., the chairman, resigned Sept. 21 after disclosures about problems in First Bank's loans for leveraged buyouts. Before he departed, Mr. Ankeny set in motion a drastic reorganization aimed at creating a smaller institution that would emphasize lending.
Clearly, First Bank has lost its appetite for risk. Days before he resigned, Mr. Ankeny said, ''We must seriously consider eliminating or downsizing some of our businesses that have risk characteristics that exceed their reward potential.''
Of more immediate concern to investors is the future of First Bank's 41-cent quarterly dividend, which may be cut because of accounting charges from the restructuring. Analysts, however, seem fairly optimistic that First Bank management will be able to make the third-quarter payment. After the most recent flurry of bad news some analysts feel the stock price of First Bank has hit bottom. Yesterday, First Bank's shares closed at $17.625, up 87.5 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange. ''You can make money in the stock,'' said Mr. Brown of Paine Webber, who rates the stock a step beneath an outright buy recommendation. ''The market is being overly punitive.'' Other analysts still have questions about the outlook for First Bank. ''The situation is quite clouded,'' said Kenneth F. Puglisi, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. ''I'd like to see who is going to be running the company before we make too many decisions about what to do with the stock.'' The board is searching for a new chief executive. Norwest's chairman, Lloyd P. Johnson, has engineered a remarkable turnaround. Last month, Norwest reported net income of $60.1 million in the third quarter, an 11.5 percent increase from $53.9 million a year earlier.
Norwest stock, which has risen more than 43 percent this year, closed unchanged yesterday at $21.75 on the New York Stock Exchange.
In the early 1980's, the bank was beset by troubled agricultural and overseas loans and a costly foray into mortgage banking.
Some analysts think that Norwest's stock will continue to climb. In a Sept. 28 report, Thomas H. Hanely, an analyst at Salomon Brothers, issued a strong buy recommendation for Norwest stock. Mr. Hanely called Norwest ''a deeply undervalued franchise'' and said investors' views were still colored by the negative events at Norwest earlier in the decade.
In January, after years of delay, Norwest moved its headquarters into a striking new skyscraper designed by Cesar Pelli, replacing the bank's old headquarters, which burned to the ground in 1982. The new building has ''had an impact on our image and morale,'' Mr. Johnson said in a telephone interview.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%); USB (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (97%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); U S BANCORP (91%); DAIN BOSWORTH INC (72%); MINNESOTA TWINS (84%); MINNESOTA TWINS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRST BANK SYSTEM INC; NORWEST CORP

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BANKS AND BANKING BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BONDS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (87%); BOND MARKETS (85%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); BASEBALL (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (71%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (66%); COMEDY FILMS (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%); 



20 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
Beatrice Forced to Reduce Size of 'Junk Bond' Offering

BYLINE: By ANISE C. WALLACE

 BODY:
The Beatrice Company yesterday priced $250 million in ''junk bonds'' but was forced to scale back the offering by $100 million from the planned $350 million.
A person close to the transaction said investors showed a lukewarm response because part of the proceeds ultimately may be used to issue dividends to Beatrice shareholders, including Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company, the New York leveraged buyout firm. ''A lot of investors felt the offering was a vehicle to put money in K.K.R.'s pockets,'' he said. 
That perception kept some portfolio managers from buying the securities. ''I don't want to see money being upstreamed away from the operating company,'' said J. Michael Pokorny, portfolio manager of the $760 million Delchester Fund, a junk bond fund offered by the Delaware Management Company in Philadelphia.
 
Effect of Continued Wariness
Market participants said the continued wariness of junk bond investors could be likely to raise the costs for some companies seeking financing in this market, including the R. P. Scherer Company and Morningstar. While strong companies like Continental Cablevision Inc., which sold $350 million of junk bonds yesterday in this country and $100 million of floating-rate notes in Europe, are able to sell their bonds, other companies are being forced to pay higher interest rates, offer equity kickers or provide more protection for bondholders.
Demand for the securities of Continental Cablevision yesterday was said to be strong. The company, the fourth-largest cable television operator in the United States, plans to use the proceeds of its offering to repurchase outstanding notes and reduce some of its bank debt. The bonds were priced at par to yield 12 7/8 percent.
Beatrice's $150 million of ''reset'' notes were priced yesterday at a yield of 13.75 percent, with the rate to be reset each year to keep the notes trading at 101 percent of par. The company's $100 million floating-rate notes have an initial coupon of 12.9 percent and will pay 4.25 percentage points above the London interbank offered rate. In addition, Beatrice agreed to tighter covenants than planned, restricting the company's ability to issue new debt.
 
Financing Plans Disrupted
The unsettled conditions in the junk bond market are disrupting the financing plans of other companies. Yesterday an investment banker at B.T. Securities Corporation, a subsidiary of Bankers Trust Company, said that the firm's proposed offering of $150 million for Morningstar, a dairy company that was spun off from the Southland Corporation, the convenience store operator, would probable be revised, perhaps by substituting a reset note for the planned fixed-rate bonds.
''The cost of getting this done far exceeds what we thought,'' said Charles A. Quattrochi, a managing director of B.T. Securities. The Morningstar offering would represent the commercial bank's first venture into junk bond underwriting.
At the same time so-called price talk for a $150 million offering of junk bonds for R.P. Scherer, a pharmaceutical company, includes a coupon of more than 14 percent and some equity in the company. Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., the underwriter, owns 95 percent of the stock and has a $116 million short-term bridge loan to Scherer at a rate of 6 percentage points above the prime lending rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (80%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELAWARE MANAGEMENT HOLDINGS INC (84%); KKR & CO LP (83%); CONTINENTAL CABLEVISION INC (82%); BT SECURITIES CORP (80%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (51%); 7-ELEVEN INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEATRICE COMPANIES INC

SUBJECT: CORPORATE BONDS HIGH YIELD BONDS (93%); BONDS (92%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (87%); BOND FUNDS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (76%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); CONVENIENCE STORES (64%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, ANISE C



21 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
A Fishy Epic: Not-So-Old Man Versus the Sea

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
There was a point, late in his career, when people thought Hemingway might be slipping. Then he wrote ''The Old Man and the Sea'' and won the Nobel Prize for literature. The book's cover says the story of an elderly man's fight with a big fish has ''the simplicity of a fable, the significance of a parable and the drama of an epic.''
And so will this column. What awaits you is man versus fish against the gritty backdrop of New York City. 
The sun rose thinly from the sea (page 32), as the Flamingo III sliced through the morning mist. A flock of black ducks landed near a stand of rushes. Wisps of pink were streaked across a pale sky. The Coney Island parachute jump hovered in the distance. Cars whizzed over a Belt Parkway bridge, carrying commuters on their lonely terrestrial journey.
Then the Flamingo III slipped under the bridge, out of Rockaway Inlet and into the Atlantic Ocean. The water was no longer flat as a mirror. The boat rose and fell rhythmically. Suddenly, a popping sound punctured the silence. A can of beer had been opened.
We looked around the cabin. There were snapshots of people and fish. There was a television tuned to Bullwinkle. There was a prayer that when we ended up in the ''Lord's great landing net,'' we might be ''big enough to keep.''
And there was a framed personal ad: ''Wanted: A good woman who can clean and cook fish, dig worms, sew and who owns a good fishing boat and motor. Please enclose photo of boat.''
Three generations of one family have captained Flamingos, each sailing from a dock at Gerritsen Beach, about 10 blocks from the piers of Sheepshead Bay. They are what is known as ''party boats,'' and not only in honor of the exuberant souls who have performed swan dives from the top deck.
The idea is that a party of regular folks can pay a modest amount and pursue the rich man's sport of deep-sea fishing ($25, including all equipment, for more than eight hours).
The hundred or so party boats in the New York area hearken to a rich tradition: The Taurus, a 240-foot-long paddlewheel steamer, sailed out of Battery Park in the early years of this century, carrying 1,500 happy anglers.
Our companions included an unemployed truck driver who had one letter of the word LOVE tattooed on each finger, a man who called himself only Al the Dentist (''Al Dente,'' chortled his girlfriend) and three off-duty firefighters with four cases of beer.
Dave Johnson, a crew member, spelled out the attraction this way: ''It's relaxation, peace, action.'' (A dramatic pause) ''It's actually pretty close to having sex.'' (A longer, less dramatic pause) ''But just about everyone would choose sex every time.''
A man called Red, an 80-year-old retired pipefitter who once landed 100 bluefish in the same day, said, ''It's better than hanging out in a barroom somewhere.''
Time passed, and the ocean seemed like a fishless desert. (Page 10.) We pursued a formidable foe. Bluefish, the crew and fellow fishermen said, relish eating their own young and think nothing of biting a hunk out of much bigger fish. They fill their stomachs, regurgitate and eat some more. ''It might be the only fish in the ocean that kills just to kill,'' said Jeff Cruz, first mate.
The men who chase bluefish are just as aggressive. Captain Bob Wiegand uses electronic fish finders, conversations with other skippers and constant observation with binoculars to dart from one potential fishing spot to another. Fishermen cast their lines before the boat has even stopped. Manifestly, they cannot tolerate being in one place for more than two minutes and 31 seconds without landing a lunker.
''These people are bloodthirsty,'' said a woman named May Lui, who is between things.
Our lines kept getting hopelessly tangled, until crewman arrived to straighten us out. Were people snickering? The hours dragged on. Our casting improved, but our luck didn't. Then lightning struck. A fish seized the line. He fought like a lion. But we fought back and remembered what Hemingway said to his piscine adversary: ''I love you and respect you very much. But I will kill you before this day ends.'' (Page 54.) The dead fish weighed over 15 pounds.
Two hours later, we glided back into Rockaway Inlet. Unlike some expeditions, we had seen no whales or seals or giant sea turtles. Just the shimmering beauty of a silver lure flying through the clear air on one of the last days of a perfect Indian summer.
Far away, the World Trade Center towers looked like a child's toys. In our pocket were winnings from a pool for catching the biggest fish. A long subway ride loomed ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; SHEEPSHEAD BAY (NYC)

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, SPORT NOBEL PRIZES (90%); SPORT FISHING (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); LITERATURE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); BEER & ALE (66%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS



22 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Socialist About to Win Liberal Isle in Rural Sea

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y.

 BODY:
When Benjamin Nichols is on the campaign trail in his quest to become the next mayor here, he talks about issues rarely discussed in central New York: taxing developers to pay for affordable housing, the possibility of rent control and legislation that would enable gay couples to register as domestic partners.
In nearby towns, the proposals might be causes for alarm. However, in Ithaca most people barely blink. Even the fact that Mr. Nichols, 69 years old, is a member of the Democratic Socialists of America is taken in stride. 
Ithaca, known for its scenic gorges and Cornell University, is a liberal city. The Common Council has voted to support a freeze on nuclear activities and to offer sanctuary to Central American refugees. George McGovern carried Ithaca in the 1972 Presidential election, as did the Rev. Jesse Jackson in the 1988 Democratic primary.
''It's clearly an island of liberal-left feeling in a sea of conservatism,'' said the local Assemblyman, Martin Luster.
 
Loss by 3-Term Mayor
The chairwoman of the Tompkins County Democratic Party, Irene Stein, said the politics had been moving to the left since the early 1970's, when growing numbers of Cornell students settled here after graduation. Democrats first outnumbered Republicans in 1972; the ratio is now 2 to 1. Republicans still are in the majority in most rural areas.
In the primary in September, Mr. Nichols defeated a three-term mayor, John Gutenberger, a moderate whose strength was in bringing groups together, but who was attacked as being too accommodating to developers and as not being strongly enough on the side of union workers fighting Cornell.
Mr. Nichols faces a Republican lawyer, Jean Cookingham, but his election is almost assured in the overwhelmingly Democratic city.
Mr. Gutenberger had encouraged development, mainly in the Collegetown area, near Cornell. Apartment complexes have been built, including one by the family of Mr. Gutenberger's wife. Some residents said the buildings had revitalized the area. Others complained about increasing traffic and the destruction of neighborhoods.
 
Chorus of Complaints
''The scale is no longer what I would call a human scale,'' said Dan Hoffman, an alderman who ran against Mr. Gutenberger in 1987 and lost by fewer than 50 votes.
Others complained about a lack of affordable housing and the low quality of jobs. Although Tompkins consistently has the lowest unemployment rate in the state, many jobs are in low-paying service industries.
A coalition of groups joined to put up a candidate against Mr. Gutenberger. Environmental groups and many unions united. Blacks, who have virtually no representation in the city's government, worked hard to elect Mr. Nichols, as did homosexuals.
Mr. Nichols is rooted in the American left. He was born on Staten Island in 1920 to parents who were Communist Party members, and he has spent much of his life in politics. He helped his parents organize a union, supported the Spanish Loyalists, protested Southern segregation, marched aganst the Vietnam War and supported Mr. Jackson for President.
 
Town-Gown Relations
''He's a walking history of progressive movements in this century,'' said Al Davidoff, president of a local of the United Automobile Workers and Mr. Nichols's campaign coordinator.
Mr. Nichols is a World War II Army veteran. Before retiring, he was a professor of electrical engineerng at Cornell for 40 years. In 1987, Mr. Nichols was elected to the Common Council. He said affordable housing and new jobs would be high on his agenda, as well as having Cornell pay for its share of services.
''Cornell and Ithaca are intertwined,'' Mr. Nichols said. ''It goes without saying Ithaca wouldn't be anything like it is without Cornell. Cornell as an institution does not feel quite the same way about Ithaca.''
Mr. Nichols, who called for an examination of rental housing, said he also wanted to re-examine zoning and increase taxes on developers.
''Any candidate that promotes laws that would interfere with private property, promotes big government and reduces freedom is not in the interest of people who improve the economy,'' the president of the Tompkins Chamber of Commerce, Girard Oberrender Jr., said Mr. Nichols said, however, that at heart he was a pragmatist.
Some Democrats have formed a Democrats for Cookingham group. In general, however, the criticism of Mr. Nichols has been muted. A few letters to the editor in newspapers expressed concern about his politics, but some people have said they believe governing will force Mr. Nichols to compromise.
Mr. Nichols's backers hope to empower groups that are removed from politics. ''We have a wonderful opportunity,'' Mr. Davidoff said, ''to elect someone who is an activist, a champion, someone who doesn't say the status quo needs tinkering with, but says, 'We need to change the priorities.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISTS OF AMERICA (57%); DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISTS OF AMERICA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ITHACA (NY)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MAYORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COHABITATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RENT CONTROL (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PARENTING (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); 

PERSON: NICHOLS, BENJAMIN JESSE JACKSON (53%); 



23 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Stadium Plan May Fall Victim to Quake

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 31

 BODY:
An 85-year-old survivor of the 1906 earthquake is making an impassioned plea on the radio here that voters approve a ballot measure to allow construction of a new baseball stadium that would keep the Giants in San Francisco.
The elderly man's commercial represents a shift in tactics by proponents of the stadium, led by Mayor Art Agnos, who saw their Election Day hopes tumble in the wake of the Oct. 17 earthquake, which rocked the region during the World Series.
Before the quake, polls showed voters nearly evenly divided on the measure to build the downtown stadium, which is on Tuesday's ballot. Since the quake, in a city that sustained more than $2 billion in damage, the polls show the measure headed for defeat. 
 
Rebuilding Support for Stadium
In the hectic days after the quake, which claimed 64 lives and severed much of the Bay Area's network of highways and bridges, Mr. Agnos abandoned the ball park campaign as a frivolity and reassigned its staff to run shelters for the displaced and homeless. But as the World Series resumed last weekend, sending a televised message to the world that this was not a city in rubble, Mr. Agnos set out to rebuild support for the new stadium.
While the Oakland Athletics were sweeping the Giants at San Francisco's Candlestick Park, widely regarded by fans and players as baseball's most uncomfortable ball park, the Mayor was testing arguments on voters distracted by the earthquake and its subsequent turmoils and worried about how the city would pay for its rebuilding.
Until the quake, the stadium measure was viewed as a midterm vote of coincidence in Mr. Agnos. That is no longer the case, with the Mayor's popularity at an all-time high because of his leadership during the crisis, according to a poll released here yesterday. But, if the stadium measure is defeated, the Giants have said they will leave the city, which would be a particular blow as San Francisco struggles to help its tourism industry.
Proponents of the new stadium have taken several tacks with their post-earthquake pitch:
* The new ball park, a 45,000-seat horseshoe opening onto the Bay not far from downtown, would be a sound deal, costing $75.2 million in city money and generating $633.1 million in revenue over 40 years.
* None of the city's contribution to the privately built stadium would come from the general fund, and would thus not impede earthquake efforts.
* Concerns that the new site is on landfill are not valid.Certain landfill neighborhoods sustained terrible damage in the quake, like the Marina district. Others, including the financial district, stood firm because of newer building codes, which would apply at the stadium.
 
Capitalizing on New Mood
But opponents of the ball park have capitalized on the post-earthquake mood and rebutted each of these arguments, sometimes with cost-benefit analyses and sometimes by touching fears.
The radio commercial, by contrast, is an emotional appeal for emotional times. The elderly man, Dr. Albert Shumate, does not speak of the $20,000 in damage to his house from the recent quake, which, measuring 7.1 on the Richter scale of ground motion, was the most devastating in the nation since the 8.3 temblor of his childhood. Instead, Dr. Shumate talks of the indomitable spirit of San Franciscans early in the century, about their resolve to rebuild on a grand scale.
In the aftermath of the 1906 devastation, San Francisco built exuberantly and the monuments of those years are central to the legend of a plucky city risen from the ashes. Just three years after the big quake, the city won the right to host the Panama Pacific International Exposition, and the Palace of Fine Arts stands today as a reminder of that 1915 extravaganza. Also in those years, a new City Hall was built, as well as an auditorium and a library.
''We look back at that generation and the marvelous feat of rebuilding,'' said Corey Busch, the executive vice president of the Giants. ''They did it with a vision, with us in mind. We need to take a step back and think about our place in history.''
This harkening to the spirit of 1906 offends stadium opponents. ''Let's charge ahead with transportation programs,'' said Jim Firth, a leader of the opposition campaign. ''Let's charge ahead by bringing buildings up to code. Let's charge ahead by rebuilding the Marina. The idea that the stadium is the only way to climb out rubs me the wrong way.''
 
Newspapers Are Boosters
Just as they did in 1906, when the city was considering a bid for the exposition, the local newspapers are supporting the new stadium, with strong endorsements in both The Chronicle and The Examiner last weekend. The language of both editorials was upbeat, but the implied message was that San Francisco needs the stadium as an antidote to reduced tourism and retail sales, fewer conventions and lowered property values.
The Mayor is not mincing words in this regard. ''I need to draw private investment into the city,'' he said. ''I need to stimulate the economy.''
Brief consideration was given to postponing the election, said Ed McGovern, a close aide to the Mayor who is on leave from City Hall to run the ball park campaign. That course was not taken for a variety of reasons, he said, including concern that the economic impact of the earthquake would worsen with time, making a later election riskier.
It remains unclear what the Giants would do if the stadium measure loses. As part of the deal, the Giants' lease, which runs until 1994, was amended to allow an immediate exit if the measure is defeated. That amendment could be challenged by a petition campaign and forced onto the ballot for voter consideration.
 
Nearby Areas Considered
But if the amendment stands and the stadium is defeated, the Giants are free to go. The two most attractive new homes, Santa Clara County and Sacramento, do not have stadiums and would need at least three years to build one. Leaving for a city with a stadium is possible, Mr. Busch said, although he declined to speculate about whether that might happen.
Instead, the Giants' executive vice president pointed to the sharp mood changes here since the earthquake. Early last week, many saw resumption of the World Series as sacrilege, Mr. Busch noted, but by week's end baseball became a valuable civic catharsis.
A similar opinion change could occur over the ball park. ''Last week's conventional wisdom,'' he said, ''is this week's poppycock.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (53%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (84%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (84%); OAKLAND A'S (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); CANDLESTICK PARK (SAN FRANCISCO)

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; STADIUMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EARTHQUAKES STADIUMS & ARENAS (94%); REFERENDUMS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BALLOTS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); LANDFILLS (60%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE



24 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Lessons

BYLINE: By Edward B. Fiske

 BODY:
Prophets frequently go without honor in their own country. So can educational innovators in their own school districts.
In the mid-1970's Community School District 4 in East Harlem began allowing parents to choose the elementary and junior high schools their children would attend.
To give meaning to the choices, teachers were encouraged to create alternative schools using different teaching methods and curriculums. The district now has 52 schools in 20 buildings. 
The innovations have been credited with raising test scores, increasing attendance and reducing incidents of violence and other serious disciplinary problems.
As a result, District 4 attracts visitors from as far away as Europe, and Deborah Meier, director of the Central Park East Secondary School, which developed new methods for motivating students and evaluating their achievements, was honored with a MacArthur Foundation ''genius'' award.
Despite such accolades, budget problems, scandal and school politics now threatens the program. ''Everything I care for is at stake,'' Ms. Meier said.
Parental choice is a two-edged sword. In cities like Chicago extensive magnet-school programs have contributed to racial and economic polarization. In District 4 in East Harlem the alternative schools plan has brought out the entrepreneurial instincts of teachers, has reduced the size of schools and has enhanced contact between teachers and parents. The trick, it seems, is to give parents enticing alternatives and to make sure that they understand their options.
Almost by definition, alternative schools stretch the limits of the system. The New York City Board of Education recognizes only the 20 school buildings in District 4, not the 52 schools, and the schools are run not by principals, but by directors who are technically teachers. ''Officially we've never existed,'' Ms. Meier said. ''We're living a fiction.'' Hiring is complicated because staff members must often teach several subjects, defying seniority lists and central office computers. Even telephones are used differently. In most schools telephones are found only on the desks of administrators and secretaries. But in alternative schools, where teachers often call parents to discuss a child's progress or wonder why the child is not in school, telephones are more accessible. That can lead to educational benefits and the misuse of telephones.
For such reasons, the survival of alternative schools depends largely on the political protection they receive. The alternative schools in District 4 enjoyed such protections under Anthony Alvarado, who was the district superintendent when the schools were created, and his successor, Carlos Medina.
The situation changed in December, however, when Mr. Medina was suspended after allegations that he used public money for private purposes. Mr. Medina said he expects to be exonerated, and backers view the accusations as politically motivated. On Monday, the district's fiscal director was dismissed for ''mismangement.''
''If you can discredit the district, you don't have to bother discrediting the program,'' said Sy Fliegel, a former associate superintendent who helped develop the choice approach.
Supporters of the alternative schools asserted that Shirley Walker, the acting superintendent, has sought to undermine their efforts. They say she forced them to take disproportionately greater cuts than regular neighborhood schools in the district and has not fought hard enough for renewal of a $1.4 million Federal grant for schools with specialized curriculums.
Ms. Walker did not return telephone calls seeking her comments.
''We're celebrating choice at a time when we're in a crisis in this district,'' said Ray Rivera, a parent with two children in district schools. ''Instead of increased support, we're getting less support.''
The alternative schools of District 4 have been successful because they did what most people say all schools should do: they put educational objectives first.
''We decided not to spend a lot of time on governance issues but rather to talk about teaching and learning,'' Ms. Meier said. ''We told parents or teachers that if they had a good idea, they could have a school.''
The immediate political threat to District 4 may ease if Mr. Medina is restored to office, but the long-term challenge remains to find ways to institutionalize some of the better educational things that are happening despite, rather than because of, its structures. The Board of Education could, for example, distinguish between ''buildings,'' and ''schools,'' thus giving alternative schools a legitimacy they now lack.
By themselves, new structures like parental choice and alternative schools cannot guarantee success. But smothering them with bureaucratic procedures intended for traditional schools may well guarantee mediocrity.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HARLEM (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION AND COMMUNITY ROLE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PARENTING (90%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL CHOICE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); 

PERSON: FISKE, EDWARD B



25 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
New Program Will Train Minority Teachers

BYLINE: By JULIE JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
Reflecting concern about the sharp declines in the number of black and Hispanic teachers, five colleges and universities have established a long-term program to recruit and train minority members for teaching careers.
The consortium is the latest response to concerns shared by educators, members of Congress and Education Secretary Lauro F. Cavazos about shortages in minority teachers at a time when many urban public school classrooms are predominantly filled with black and Hispanic children.
Designed as a model for areas with large minority populations, the pilot project includes Fordham University and City College of New York, Xavier University, Hostos Community College and California State University at Dominguez Hills. In addition, the project is joined by the Ana G. Mendez Educational Foundation, which operates three private colleges in Puerto Rico. 
In the first year, beginning next fall, the schools will work with urban high schools with large minority enrollments to recruit interested students in grades 9 through 12. The students will participate in an intensive program of Saturday and summer college enrichment courses throughout their high school years to ''stimulate them to enter a college as an education major.''
 
Counseling and Advice
The students will also receive guidance counseling on selecting and applying to colleges and help in seeking financial aid. While there are existing networks among various teachers' colleges, this project is among the first to link large urban colleges, like CUNY or Fordham with a historically black institution, Xavier, and those that have historically served Hispanic students.
Of the nation's two million teachers, about 7 percent are black and 3 percent are Hispanic or belong to other minorities, said Antoine M. Garibaldi, Xavier's dean of arts and sciences, who has studied minority teacher recruitment and employment for the last eight years. Historically, he said, black colleges have produced at least half the nation's minority teachers.
But in a shift first noticed around 1975, black and Hispanic college students increasingly opted for other professions as affirmative action programs opened career avenues and as teacher salaries failed to keep pace with inflation. Teacher salaries this year averaged $29,629. While the figure is an all-time high, according to the most recent American Federation of Teachers salary survey, it is not even $800 above the 1972 average when adjusted for inflation.
David R. Merkowitz, a spokesman for the American Council on Education, said this pilot project is the latest of several efforts to bring higher education together with elementary and high school educators in search of solutions to the problem.
In 1977, of 87,083 students who graduated with bachelor's degrees in education, 4,253 were black and 2,223 were Hispanic. By contrast, a decade earlier, 143,462 students graduated with education degrees; 12,922 were black and 3,050 were Hispanic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: XAVIER UNIVERSITY (84%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (84%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (84%); XAVIER UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY; CITY COLLEGE OF NEW YORK (CCNY); XAVIER UNIVERSITY; HOSTOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE; CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY (DOMINGUEZ HILLS)

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US); TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); SALARY SURVEYS (61%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, JULIE LAURO FRED 'LAURO F' CAVAZOS JR (58%); 



26 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Run for the Money Doesn't Always Pay

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

 BODY:
By finishing first in the Los Angeles Marathon seven months ago, Art Boileau of Canada and Zoya Ivanova of the Soviet Union each won $26,385 and a Mercedes-Benz worth more than $30,000. Those same prizes are available to the first-place finishers Sunday in the New York City Marathon, and if Boileau and Ivanova are first again, they would qualify for a $300,000 bonus for winning both races. Or so it seems. As a citizen of a market-economy nation, Boileau is entitled to any prize he wins. That is not yet the case for Ivanova. 
For all the changes wrought by perestroika in the Soviet Union, the system has not evolved to the point that elite Soviet athletes competing outside of the country are entitled to all their spoils. In Los Angeles, Ivanova's official take was the car and the maximum cash award allowed by Soviet authorities, 500 rubles, which is about $800 at the current exchange rate. The same ceiling applies Sunday to Ivanova and the other Soviet athletes competing: Raisa Smekhnova, Eugeny Okorokov and Rustam Shagiev.
 
A Question of Fairness
A victory by Ivanova would make Goscomsport, the national sports federation, the biggest potential winner, with Ivanova generating as much as $325,585 if she finishes first.
But is that fair? ''Not an easy question to answer,'' she said yesterday through a translator. ''It is not totally fair. But so far, perestroika is not yet complete.''
For years, Soviet athletes competing in Western nations were required to return all their winnings to the federation. Often, promoters would slip the athletes money under the table, whereupon the athletes would buy items unavailable to them in the Soviet Union, like quality stereos and tape players. But the official winnings always flowed to the state.
Over the last three years, the rules have been relaxed. ''According to agreements each athlete makes with the committee, the athlete gets a small percentage of the winnings,'' Ivanova said. Negotiating With Federation For some athletes, the arrangement has still been unsatisfactory enough to bring the issue into the open. Earlier this year, Natalya Zvereva, the Soviet Union's leading tennis player, announced that she intended to keep all her earnings. Since then, she has engaged a marketing firm to represent her; the firm, which also represents Andrei Chesnokov, the top Soviet male player, is negotiating with the Soviet authorities a financial arrangement acceptable to Zvereva and Chesnokov and the state.
In the Soviet Union, running marathons is a relatively new phenomenon, and long-distance runners have yet to achieve the same status as tennis players. But that, too, may be changing.
''In the coming year, there will be negotiations between the Soviet sport committee and each federation,'' Ivanova said. ''The federations want to put in for 30 percent for each athlete.'' She laughed. ''But that is only for next year, not this year.''
Like Ingrid Kristiansen of Norway, the favorite among the women in Sunday's marathon, Ivanova, who is 37 years old, was a cross-country skier before she turned to running in 1981.
Among her best performances were a victory in the 1981 European Cup, a silver medal at the 1987 world championships and her victory this year in Los Angeles, where she defeated the Olympic champion, Rosa Mota of Portugal, among others, with a time of 2 hours 34 minutes 42 seconds. Her personal best is 2:27:57, which brought her third place in the 1987 Tokyo Marathon. At the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, South Korea, she finished ninth, in 2:30:25.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: RUNNING; MARATHON RUNNING; NEW YORK CITY MARATHON MARATHONS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ATHLETES (89%); RUNNING (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (71%); TENNIS (68%); EXCHANGE RATES (53%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL



27 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Yankees And Mets Diverge On Salary

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
The number of baseball players earning $2 million or more continued to climb this year, to a record 20, but two even more intriguing economic developments involved the average team salaries of the Mets and the Yankees.
Only one year after the Yankees became the first baseball team ever to reach the $700,000 plateau, their average salary plummeted well below $600,000 and the Mets soared well beyond $800,000.
A salary study by The New York Times, based on data obtained from management and player sources, shows that the Mets' average was $858,575, a staggering increase of more than 40 percent over their $605,895 average in 1988. The Yankees' average dropped more than 20 percent, from a major league-leading $718,670 to $562,032, only the eighth highest in the majors this year. 
The Mets' average is so stratospheric that it is 21 percent higher than the second highest average, the $711,375 of the Oakland Athletics, the World Series champions.
 
Two Sets of Numbers
The average salaries are computed officially before the end of the year by the Players Association and by baseball's Player Relations Committee. The figures of the two groups never agree precisely because they use different methods of determining the value of certain payments.
The average major league salary that emerged from The Times's study is $491,199. The Players Association average is expected to be a few thousand dollars higher than that figure. The Player Relations Committee's preliminary figure, pending inclusion of post-season awards, is $488,424. Last year, the two groups' averages were, respectively, $438,729 and $430,688.
The Mets' and Yankees' payrolls went in opposite directions from the start of the season to the end. The Mets began at $790,643 but added Frank Viola, who with Orel Hershiser had the highest 1989 salary, and Juan Samuel. The Yankees started at $708,247, then shed Rickey Henderson and his $2.12 million salary plus six other players earning $500,000 or more. They also wound up with five players earning the minimum $68,000, compared with one on opening day.
The Mets, who next year will lose the $2 million salaries of Gary Carter and Keith Hernandez, had four players at that level or higher, twice the number of any other team. Their total of nine players at $1 million or more also led the majors.
 
Viola and Hershiser in Lead
The total number of players at the $2 million plateau rose to 20 from 12 last year and 6 in 1987. Viola and Hershiser led the elite group with incomes of $2,766,667. Fourteen clubs had players in the sport's uppermost class.
For the first time, every club had a player earning $1 million or more. A year ago, San Francisco, Pittsburgh, Cleveland and Seattle did not. The total in the $1 million circle was 106, up from 74 last year and 60 in 1987.
Ninety-one players earned the minimum, compared with 82 last year. The Mets were the only team without such a player.
The salaries include all money earned this year except for the post-season awards given by the Baseball Writers Association. The winners of those awards have not been determined, but some players will gain bonuses because of them.
Kevin Mitchell, for example, is expected to be named the National League's most valuable player and would earn $100,000. The leading contenders for the American League award would also receive bonuses, Cal Ripken Jr. $100,00 and George Bell $50,000. Bell would also receive $30,000 if he finished second through fifth in the voting. Ryne Sandberg is certain to finish in the top 10 in the National League voting and pick up an extra $20,000.
Mike Scott and Bret Saberhagen would each gain an extra $100,000 if they won the Cy Young Award in their league. Dave Stewart is expected to finish second to Saberhagen; that would bring him $75,000. ----Hernandez Declares Keith Hernandez, no longer wanted by the Mets, whom he helped return to championship status, declared himself a free agent yesterday. He was one of 18 players who filed and raised the total free agents to 36 in two days.
Hernandez, a 36-year-old first baseman, has indicated a desire to head west and possibly play for the San Diego Padres. Jack McKeon, the Padres' manager, has said that he would consider trying to sign Hernandez, but that the player would have to accept a salary significantly lower than the $2 million he earned this year.
The Padres, on the other hand, will have to make a lucrative offer to retain Mark Davis, their No. 1 relief pitcher, who joined Hernandez on the free-agent list yesterday. Davis led the major leagues in saves with 44 this year.
Other pitchers who filed were Bryn Smith of Montreal; John Tudor of Los Angeles; Craig Lefferts of San Francisco; Dennis (Oil Can) Boyd, Greg Harris and Dennis Lamp of Boston; Jim Gott and Neal Heaton of Pittsburgh and Mark Thurmond of Baltimore.
Tony Phillips of Oakland, Pat Sheridan of San Francisco, Gary Pettis of Detroit, Keith Moreland of Baltimore, Steve Lake of Philadelphia, Ed Romero of Milwaukee and Dave Anderson of Los Angeles also added their names to the list.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); OHIO, USA (72%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (72%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); OAKLAND A'S (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS; NEW YORK YANKEES

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES BASEBALL (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; VIOLA, FRANK; HERSHISER, OREL OREL LEONARD HERSHISER IV (62%); 



28 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A3-15
 
A rush of hundreds of East Germans to the West German Embassy in Prague occurred hours after East Germany lifted a travel ban. Many more were reported to have crossed into Czechoslovakia. Page A1
 
East Germany's Communist leader, Egon Krenz, described the mass protests in his country as a healthy sign of change. He spoke at a press conference in Moscow after a meeting with President Gorbachev. A11 
 
News analysis: Policy differences have produced many conflicting pronouncements about the Soviet Union, reflecting in part a White House that is trying to appease Democrats and Republicans. A10
 
The two ships of statecraft will meet off Malta A10
 
The new Soviet oppression: 15 days in jail A12
 
Nicaragua ended a cease-fire but President Ortega left open the possibility of restoring the truce between his Government and the United States-backed rebels through new talks. A1
 
Anger with Ortega unites U.S. policy makers A12
 
Mexico President awaits action on debt D1
 
A mobilization of Ethiopia's forces, along with a halt of all development projects, was called for by the country's President, whose army is facing a serious military threat from rebel groups. A3
 
South Africa alerted its forces after intercepting messages by U.N. monitors in Namibia saying that up to 600 rebels had infiltrated from Angola, its Foreign Minister said. A3
 
A Saudi diplomat was shot to death in Muslim West Beirut. A shadowy pro-Iranian group took responsibility, saying the killing was in retaliation for the execution of 16 Kuwaiti Shiite Muslims by Saudi Arabia. A8
 
Warning on bomb hinted by Pan Am A9
 
Pakistan's government survived by staving off defeat on a no-confidence motion by a 12-vote margin. A15
 
Weapons scandal jolts Gandhi A14
 
U.S. dismay is a fact, Nixon tells China A13
 
U.S. eases threats on country's pirating products D1
 
National A18-26, B14-19
 
A ban on aid to fetal tissue research will continue, the Bush Administration said, despite medical panels' recommendations that such research has promise for treating diabetes and other diseases. A1
 
New rules on computer stock trades are being adopted on Wall Street. The computer trades have been blamed for accelerating the market crash of October 1987 and the recent share-price gyrations. A1
 
The nation's top savings regulator defended his handling of what could be the costliest savings and loan failure on record, saying his office lacked sufficient proof that Lincoln Savings was insolvent in 1987. A1
 
More antitrust challenges are expected under Bush D1
 
The head of Random House resigned. Robert Bernstein, will leave his position at the end of the year, S.I. Newhouse, the company's owner, announced. A1
 
Campbell Soup chief to retire D1
 
Financial troubles in Massachusetts have gone from bad to worse, and amid calls for new taxes and more cuts, there is a flood of anger at Governor Dukakis and his unsuccessful Presidential campaign. A18
 
Washington Talk: California would move its Presidential primary to an earlier date, if present proposals are approved. Analysts say such a move could have a monumental effect on electoral politics. A26
 
Safety agency seeks record fine against USX A18
 
House approves minimum wage bill A26
 
The Bay Area's economy has a healthy long-term outlook despite the quake's ravages, economists say. But presently, certain businesses are suffering severely. B14
 
California to act on temporary tax for quake aid B14
 
Report of slur causes controversy in Houston race A21
 
Short-term storage urged for nuclear waste B19
 
U.S. regulation urged for money exchanges B16
 
Navy defends safety record after 5th recent accident B18
 
Regional B1-13
 
David Dinkins's style and tastes fit neatly into a middle-of-the-road strategy of his campaign. He has a calm and deliberative manner, and his cultural preferences have included Frank Sinatra and ''MASH.'' A1
 
Dinkins and Giuliani agree to debate B12
 
Only Brooklyn has prosecutor contest B13
 
New Jersey Assembly races have featured nasty tactics as millions of dollars are being spent by the political parties fighting for control of the state's lower house. B1
 
Courter suggests student loan program B2
 
Abortion is major issue in L.I. prosecutor's race B10
 
Students fearing violence stayed away from New York City's high schools by the tens of thousands on Halloween. B1
 
Altering ''dismal state'' of school libraries B1
 
Two school officials removed B5
 
A gay-rights rally at Yale drew about 100 people to protest the arrest of nine men in a dispute with police over a sexually explicit poster. B3
 
Move to kill victim described by defendant in jogger rape B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KUWAIT (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); ANGOLA (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NAMIBIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); ARMIES (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); RELIGION (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); DIABETES (60%); SAVINGS & LOANS (60%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (60%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (85%); 



29 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: The 2 Ships of Statecraft Will Meet Off Malta

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
The White House said today that next month's shipboard meetings between President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union would be held off the coast of Malta in the Mediterranean, and that the theme would be minimalism.
''The President is going to try to keep it to a minimum,'' said Marlin Fitzwater, President Bush's spokesman. ''Limited staff in attendance. A minumum of ships in the area. A low-key attitude among the people on board. A minumum of hassle.'' 
Mr. Bush announced Tuesday that the meeting would take place aboard Soviet and American naval vessels in the Mediterranean on alternate days, Dec. 2-3.
 
Memories of Iceland
The inner circle of Bush advisers, who regard the last ''informal'' summit in Iceland as a nightmare that left relations between the superpowers strained and confused, will also try to keep minimal expectations.
Mr. Gorbachev surprised President Reagan at that 1986 meeting by proposing extensive cuts in strategic nuclear weapons.
If Mr. Gorbachev were to show up with a briefcase full of arms proposals, Mr. Fitzwater said the President would simply say something like: ''Thank you very much for your views. We will consider these in due time.''
''That would not prevent them from talking about arms control in a general way,'' Mr. Fitzwater said, adding that there have been a number of discussions back and forth between the National Security Council staff of the President and Soviet counterparts in which the Americans have expressed firm desires about tone and tenor.
 
The Familiar Ground
''Both sides agree that they are not going to negotiate agreements or contracts,'' he said. The President will study his briefing books about Eastern Europe and the Soviet economy, but basically he wants to stay within areas with which he is, as Mr. Fitzwater says, ''thoroughly familiar.''
''These will be friendly, private discussions on Eastern Europe, glasnost, perestroika, our progress in the conventional weapons talks, the NATO and Warsaw pacts.''
The White House advance team will leave next week for Malta, a Mediterranean island with a highly charged political environment, pulled between East and West. Lying between Libya and Sicily, the tiny island republic has 320,000 residents and, at 100 square miles, is about the size of Queens, New York. It was once a stopover for the Crusaders as they left Europe to do battle.
The ties of Malta to the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, and to Libya, where about 10,000 Maltese citizens live and work, have long been a source of annoyance for the United States and the Western allies.
 
The Libyans in Malta
It did give White House officials pause, when they settled on Malta as the base site for the floating summit meeting, that Libyans have the right of entry without visas to Malta. The area has also been a hotbed of terrorism, with dogfights between American and Libyan warplanes. In 1985, an Egyptian airliner flying in the region was hijacked by terrorists.
But the two leaders will be spending the night on their heavily secured battleships, officials said, and they added that they are not worried about Libyan terrorist attacks on reporters.
The two countries were engaged today in a discussion of warship parity, to make sure that both sides have the same number of ships in their fleet. Ideally, the United States would like to use the Belknap, which is the flagship of the Sixth Fleet. But it is in port undergoing repairs and it is not clear whether it will be ready in time for the meeting.
The Belknap, a guided missile cruiser, has had a mixed record of sidling up to other battleships. In a famous incident in 1975, the Belknap collided with the aircraft carrier John F. Kennedy, setting off a series of fires and explosions that, subsequent reports said, came dangerously close to the Belknap's nuclear arsenal.

GRAPHIC: Map of Libya showing location of Malta (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); MEDITERRANEAN (94%); MALTA (94%); EUROPE (93%); ICELAND (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (68%); 

STATE: MEDITERRANEAN SEA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); NAVIES (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; FITZWATER, MARLIN RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



30 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Budget Problems Deepen for Massachusetts and Its Governor

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Financial troubles here in Massachusetts have gone from bad to worse in the last three months, and amid the calls for new taxes and more cuts in state spending, there is a flood of anger at Gov. Michael S. Dukakis and his unsuccessful Presidential campaign.
Critics of Mr. Dukakis and experts outside the state agree that Massachusetts could have stemmed some of its budget woes if it had started making cuts 18 months ago. But at the time, Mr. Dukakis was in the middle of his Presidential bid and was promising that if elected he would deliver to the rest of the nation his ''Massachusetts Miracle,'' a thriving economy and low unemployment. At that time, too, the Democratic-controlled State Legislature was loathe to do anything that would hurt Mr. Dukakis's campaign. 
Changes in the Federal tax laws in 1986 resulted in substantial revenue losses in Massachusetts and other states. In addition, states in the Northeast have been hurt by a softening real estate market and cutbacks in industries. But most of them made up their losses with revenue from other sources or acted quickly to cut their budgets.
''A big part of the reason Massachusetts is having so much trouble is that it allowed its problems to accumulate,'' said Steven D. Gold, director of fiscal studies for the National Conference of State Legislatures in Denver. ''And that was because of the Presidential campaign.''
As a result, he said, Massachusetts has one of the worst budget deficits in the nation.
''The level of cynicism in Massachusetts is at an unprecedented high,'' said State Representative Marjorie O. Clapprood, a Democrat. ''There are a lot of feelings of anger and betrayal that one, he lost, and two, that in the process of running he covered up a fiscal situation that could have been manageable 15 months ago and has now spiraled into a crisis.''
Mindy Lubber, press secretary for Mr. Dukakis, agreed that ''there's no question that if the Governor was in Massachusetts full-time versus on the road, things might have been able to be done differently.'' But, she said, the state's revenue figures were regularly published and there was never a cover-up.
 
The Deficit Deepens
Mr. Dukakis announced in July that the state would face a $491 million deficit this fiscal year. He called for deep cuts in social service programs and a 15 percent temporary increase in the personal income tax. The Legislature grudgingly approved his program.
Then, early last month, Mr. Dukakis announced that the deficit for this year would actually be about $500 million larger. He recommended more cuts and further tax increases.
The Legislature, under the pressure from taxpayers and businesses, is struggling to come up with a budget-balancing package.
Lawmakers say the money that can be cut is down to nickel-and-dime amounts, and the voters' opinion of another tax increase is hardly favorable.
''Most people think there's a limit to how much you can cut,'' said Al Frezza, chief of staff for the House Speaker, George Keverian.
Mr. Gold said Massachusetts is more dependent on corporate and personal income taxes than most other states. About 14 percent of its revenues come from corporate taxes, and 47 percent, the third-highest in the nation, from personal taxes.
''They were really vulnerable if they had trouble with those taxes, which they did,'' Mr. Gold said.
The latest state estimates put annual revenue growth at 3.2 percent, down from 6.5 percent last year. For most of the 1980's until early 1988, rates had were 8 percent to 16 percent.
It was during the boom years that Massachusetts expanded its services. The Legislature approved a universal health insurance program that was scheduled to go into effect in 1992. But the state's current problems may undermine that program.
Barbara Anderson, executive director of an anti-tax lobbying group, Citizens for Limited Taxation, said any new attempt to raise taxes will face fierce opposition.
''People are fed up,'' Ms. Anderson said. ''They're not expanding their businesses, and consumers aren't buying things because they feel insecure about their jobs.''
 
The Legislators' Problem
A tax package intended to raise $855 million a year was postponed last week by Mr. Keverian, the House Speaker. After pressure from other House Democrats, he said he would first introduce a $100 million savings plan.
The Dukakis Administration, meanwhile, has prepared a $350 million savings plan, said Charles A. Baker 3d, the Assistant Secretary of Administration and Finance. That plan, while not covering the entire deficit, includes $150 million in spending cuts, $140 million in savings measures and $60 million in revenues like Federal reimbursements.
State legislators, many of whom face re-election next year, are reluctant to discuss new taxes.
''The first year I was here, we were up to our elbows in cash, and it was easy to be in government,'' said Representative Robert Havern, a Democrat on the House Taxation Committee. ''Now people are stressed out financially. The problem now is that people can't defend raising taxes until they make serious cuts.''
Some residents favor higher tax. On Monday, about 300 elderly people dressed in skeleton costumes marched through the State House chanting, ''Read our bones: We want taxes.''
''What we were trying to make clear is that there is a horror show going on and people have really been hurt,'' said Al Norman, the director of Mass Home Care, an association of companies that are paid by the state to provide services to low-income elderly people in their homes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1988 BUDGETS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); INCOME TAX (60%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (52%); 

PERSON: DUKAKIS, MICHAEL S (GOV)



31 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: House, 382-37, Approves Bill To Raise the Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
By a lopsided margin, the House today approved legislation to increase the minimum wage to $4.25 an hour by 1991 and to create a $3.35 training wage for workers under 20 years old.
The vote was 382 to 37, with Republicans accounting for all but two of the negative votes. Congressional Democratic leaders and the Bush Administration announced a compromise Tuesday on the wage issue, ending a long impasse. 
With the Senate pledging to take similar action soon, legislators predicted today that President Bush would be able to sign the legislation into law by Thanksgiving, enacting the first increase in the minimum wage since 1981, when the current level of $3.35 an hour was reached.
The first raise of 45 cents an hour, to $3.80, would take effect next April and the second in April 1991.
 
Earlier Bill Vetoed
A bill passed by Congress in May that would have raised the minimum to $4.55 an hour was vetoed by President Bush because he said it would be inflationary. His veto was sustained.
Debate today was largely perfunctory, with many lawmakers declaring the wage increase imperfect but a reasonable outcome in the long quest for a way to bridge the Democrats' desire to restore much of the purchasing-power loss of the minimum wage in the 1980's and the Administration's insistence on some kind of apprenticeship wage.
Under the measure, teen-agers with little experience would be allowed to be paid 85 percent of the minimum wage for their first three months in the work force and for an additional three months if enrolled in a sanctioned training program.
The Labor Department is to develop guidelines for deciding what programs qualify.
 
Two-Tier System Assailed
The loudest objection to the legislation came from Carl C. Perkins, a Kentucky Democrat who said the installation of a two-tier pay system was against the interests of American workers and represented a sellout of them to Mr. Bush. The other Democrat voting no was Representative George Miller of California.
The Republicans who opposed the bill complainted of the loss of jobs they said would occur because of the increase and a rise in inflation they said would follow the raise. But some Republicans also argued for aiding the members of poor families who work by means of expanded tax credits.
The training wage applies to people 16 through 19 years old, except for migrant and seasonal agricultural workers. But some members contended these workers should be eligible for the training wage.
The House was prevented from procedural rules from addressing this issue today but an agreement emerged that efforts would be made in the Senate to authorize the lower minimum for the agricultural workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL MINIMUM WAGE (94%); LEGISLATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); VETO (90%); FARM LABOR (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MIGRANT WORKERS (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); SEASONAL WORKERS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (72%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); THANKSGIVING (70%); AGRICULTURE (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR GEORGE W BUSH (89%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (50%); 



32 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Costa Rica Breaks the Mold

 BODY:
Costa Rica has announced what could be a dramatic breakthrough in stalled efforts to reduce the bank debt of third world countries. The plan could serve as a model for negotiations between creditor banks and other debtor nations.
Third world countries owe the banks $600 billion. But they can't pay it back without devastating the lives of their citizens. Last spring Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady called on banks to grant debt reduction in exchange for international guarantees on the remaining balance. For their part, the debtor nations had to adopt pro-growth, market reforms. But until last Friday only Mexico and the Philippines had reached agreement with the banks, and the terms provided limited relief. 
Costa Rica will do much better. With money from the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and several donor countries, it will buy back 60 percent of its debt at about an 80 percent discount and will pay a lower interest rate on the rest. That will cut its $1.8 billion debt by a stunning $1 billion.
The Costa Rican settlement is comprehensive: every bank takes a hit. First a bank must sell back most of its loans at a substantial discount. Only then will it qualify for guarantees on the remainder of its loans. Unlike the Mexico deal, banks can't avoid debt reduction by burying Costa Rica in new loans.
The negotiations succeeded partly because of the monetary fund's new policy of supporting nations that are in arrears because of bank intransigence. The I.M.F. determined that Costa Rica had undertaken suitable economic reforms and that the banks had been laggard in responding. The precise terms of the Costa Rican agreement may not work for larger debtors. But continued pressure on banks by the I.M.F. - and the United States - will be necessary.
Countries like Mexico and Venezuela have swallowed the painful medicine of economic reform without much reward. The Costa Rican agreement breaks the mold and gives beleaguered nations cause for hope.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); PHILIPPINES (56%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (75%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COSTA RICA

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; CREDIT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES PUBLIC DEBT (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); DEBTOR NATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 



33 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Help, at Last, for the Working Poor

 BODY:
When President Bush vetoed a $4.55 an hour minimum wage bill in the spring he invited a legislative compromise: a smaller minimum wage increase combined with an expansion of tax credits for the working poor. Fortunately, that compromise is about to become reality.
On Tuesday, Congressional leaders and the Bush Administration agreed to raise the minimum wage to $4.25 an hour from $3.35 by 1991. Yesterday the House approved the plan. Separately, House and Senate committees have approved expanded tax credits for low-income families. The combination could constitute a potent weapon against poverty. 
Mr. Bush rightly prefers tax credits to minimum wage increases. Because most low-wage workers, like students, are not from poor families, lifting the minimum wage helps poor and non-poor alike. And higher wages will cause employers to hire fewer workers. The number of lost jobs may not be large but many of them would have gone to the most disadvantaged youths. Minimum wage hikes would also have to be passed along to consumers, including the poor.
Expanding the Earned Income Tax Credit is a better way to help the working poor. When low-income workers with children claim the credit, the Treasury sends a check to supplement wages. Only poor families benefit, and the cost is fairly apportioned among all taxpayers.
Then why even consider a compromise that includes an increased minimum wage? Because an expanded tax credit adds too much to the Federal deficit. Raising the income of low-paid workers by boosting the minimum wage to $4.25 would lower the outlays under the tax credit.
The House bill on tax credits would cost about $5 billion more than the Senate's. But the extra money is worth spending. The House tax credit would expand with family size. And families with children under age 6 would get a supplement. The Senate version expands the tax credit only for families with children under 4, and its provisions, unlike the House's, are not indexed for inflation.
The Senate version has one praiseworthy feature not in the House bill: It would make refundable the tax credit for expenditures on dependent care, thus enabling poor families to enjoy this benefit. Under current law the credit is available only to families wealthy enough to pay taxes.
Even under the House bill, a family of four with a single full-time worker earning a $4.25 minimum wage would fall more than $4,000 short of the poverty line, according to estimates by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. And the minimum wage agreement still includes a regrettable subminimum ''training wage,'' for newly hired teen-agers. That provides a needless incentive to substitute teen-agers for older workers.
Still, the flaws in the bills hardly outweigh the artful coupling of a new minimum wage and a generous expansion of tax credits. That adds up to powerful relief for the working poor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MINIMUM WAGE; TAX CREDITS MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VETO (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); OLDER WORKERS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (92%); 



34 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Revised City Charter Will Save Money, and It's Constitutional

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The most respected watchdogs of New York City government finances, including the Citizens Budget Commission, the New York City Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and Comptroller Edward V. Regan endorse the proposed revisions to the City Charter that will appear on the ballot Nov. 7.
W. Bernard Richland (letter, Oct. 17) exemplifies efforts to portray the proposed reforms as expensive or wasteful. He overstates costs and ignores the benefits and savings. 
For example, he states that the independent budget office would cost $31 million a year - the same as the Mayor's Office of Management and Budget. The proposed charter sets the new office's budget at one-tenth of the Mayor's department - or $3.1 million. Moreover, one of the budget office's jobs would be to identify waste and inefficiency that could be eliminated from city government. Its operations should be a net saving.
Mr. Richland writes that the charter would require designating borough commissioners in 12 city agencies at a cost of $12 million. But the borough commissioner proposal affects nine city agencies, five of which have borough commissioners. The cost of four additional borough commissioners would be about $1.7 million, resulting in better city services.
Mr. Richland says that an ''additional bureaucracy,'' including new deputy mayors, would cost at least $10 million. But the charter proposals would eliminate some bureaucracies and reorganize and consolidate others. Besides the budget office, two new commissions and one new board would be established. The net additional effect would be a city spending increase of about $600,000 a year. The benefits include more competition for contracts by women- and minority-owned businesses, and greater public access to information about government programs. The proposals do not call for more deputy mayors. The Charter Revision Commission's staff estimates that when fully phased in, the absolutely necessary costs of the reforms would be about $8 million a year; desirable expenditures would be another $8 million.
The largest component of this is $4 million a year for an expanded City Council with greater responsibilities. The commission believes this would make New York government more representative and responsive.
The charter reforms also call for more staff for the Department of City Planning, which should speed review of economic development projects and generate savings.
Costs would be more than offset by savings, principally from reforms to the city's procurement system. Frank Cary, former chairman and chief executive officer of I.B.M., who headed the recent private sector survey of city government operations, has written that he ''strongly supports'' the commission's contract reforms. The State Commission on Government Integrity criticizes the current contracting system as wasteful and endorses the proposed reforms as lessening opportunities for corruption.
The Charter Commission took full account of New Yorkers' concern about the city's financial future in proposing reforms to fix the city's now unconstitutional government.
 
FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ JR.
Chairman, New York City
Charter Revision Commission
 New York, Oct. 30, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (84%); CHAMBER OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHARTER REVISION COMMISSION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CITY CHARTERS CITY GOVERNMENT (96%); BUDGETS (92%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TELEMARKETING (68%); CORRUPTION (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); 

PERSON: SCHWARZ, FREDERICK A O JR



35 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Dollar and Deficits Walk the High Wire Together;
Piper Must Be Paid

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I suspect that no one who has successfully completed a course in money and banking would argue with your conclusion in ''Fighting Fire With Money'' (editorial, Oct. 17). If I understand you, while the Federal Reserve has learned the need to supply liquidity to the market in times of extreme uncertainty, ''The nation's capacity to produce goods and services depends on healthy capital markets'' - which can be assured in the long run only by cooperation between our savers and borrowers.
You state that ''Securities markets transfer money from savers to corporations, which then invest in plants and equipment.'' What you do not say, however, is that corporate America does not always invest the money wisely, nor does our other principal borrower, the Federal Government. What you have missed is one of the first lessons of college economics: a little leverage can be a dangerous thing. In 1929 it was the leverage in the markets that made the crash so devastating. We learned that lesson in one sense and largely removed the leverage from the markets by regulation. Unfortunately, we seem to have subsequently transferred that leverage to both the public and private sectors by our increasing willingness to finance the growth of government, corporate America and even our private lives with borrowed money. We have convinced ourselves that as long as we can afford the monthly payments, the amount of debt is almost irrelevant. 
The longer-term problem implicit in your words is that we haven't always invested our savings wisely. In the early 1960's we coined the term ''deficit spending'' to rationalize Federal programs we couldn't afford; in the 1970's we realized that real estate prices can fall as well as rise; at the beginning of this decade we learned that the price of energy, like the price of all other commodities, is a function of supply and demand, and in 1989 we are beginning to appreciate that ''junk'' bonds have been properly labeled since the first one was issued.
While, as you note, ''the Fed is prepared to step in once more to protect the larger economy of Main Street from the latest debacle on Wall Street,'' it is time for all of us to pay attention to the lessons of the past. Perhaps the markets are trying to tell us to stop relying too heavily on a vehicle of our own creation to save us from our own mistakes.
At the end of the day, our debts must be repaid - the sooner we begin, the greater will be the return on all our investments.
 
FRANK J. KEELER
New York, Oct. 18, 1989
 The writer is president of Invesco Mim International.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: IVZ (TSX) (50%); IVZ (NYSE) (50%); IVZ (LSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BONDS (74%); WRITERS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); PRODUCT LABELING (66%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (62%); 



36 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Dollar and Deficits Walk the High Wire Together

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Let the Dollar Drift,'' you proclaim (editorial, Oct. 24). Right on!
But that means supporting the Treasury aim of getting the dollar down to push exports up and not, as you advise, supporting Federal Reserve policy. 
You come close to the central issue when you point out, ''Merely buying and selling foreign currencies . . . does little to offset strong market forces.'' And, ''To lower the value of the dollar effectively, the Fed must pump up the money supply in order to lower domestic interest rates.''
But what is so wrong with that? You raise the hoary fear of higher inflation and assert that the Fed's ''primary task is to stifle inflation.''
The task of the Fed and economic policy in general should be to set the framework for a prosperous, high-employment nation, living well today and investing adequately in its future. Low real interest rates are major pillars of that framework.
Obsessions about inflation are major obstacles, more inexcusable when the overall price level is almost stable and serious inflation clouds exist only in the minds' eyes of those for whom these are perennial fears. There has been no serious inflation in this country since that unleashed by the oil-supply shocks - not by excess money or spending - of a decade ago. Arguing that easier money and credit would bring large price rises has as much substance as similar fears about our supposedly huge budget deficits, which have been accompanied by a drop of almost two-thirds in rates of inflation.
In guarding excessively against inflation, the Fed keeps money and credit tight and interest rates high. That makes the dollar scarce and dollar holdings profitable. While investors believe the Fed will continue to do this, sporadic counter efforts in currency markets will do little to dissuade them from keeping the value - and cost - of the dollar high.
It is thus the Fed that is not letting the dollar drift. And the high interest rates and high cost of the dollar contribute mightily to the trade and budget deficits you frequently lament.
A lower dollar would indeed again turn the trade deficit down as, with some lag, did the decline that began in 1985. And each one percentage point fall in interest rates would reduce the Federal budget deficit directly by $20 billion as Treasury interest payments are reduced, while bringing considerably further reductions with the added tax revenues from a more prosperous, high-investment economy.
 
ROBERT EISNER
William R. Kenan Prof. of Economics
Northwestern University
 Evanston, Ill., Oct. 25, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INFLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 



37 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Why I Ended The Cease-Fire

BYLINE: By Daniel Ortega Saavedra; Daniel Ortega Saavedra is president of Nicaragua.

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua

 BODY:
On Feb. 25, 1990, Nicaragua will celebrate free, fair and democratic elections. The president, vice president and legislature elected then will take office, with full constitutional powers, on April 25, 1990.
These are my solemn pledges to the Nicaraguan people. I have also made these pledges in the multilateral agreements of the Central American presidents signed this year in Tesoro Beach and Tela. 
Last month, 1.75 million Nicaraguans - more than 90 percent of eligible voters - registered to vote in a process applauded by all international oberservers. I shall continue doing everything I can to insure that the current electoral process remains democratic and that, as in 1984, our elections are judged free and fair by the international observers.
Regrettably, increased military activity by the contras, aimed at subverting the electoral process, threatens my ability to protect the right of Nicaraguan citizens to campaign openly and vote for the political party of their choice.
That is why I decided reluctantly that the Government's unilateral cease-fire could not be extended.
During October, contra units newly supplied and infiltrated from Honduras closed more than 50 voter registration centers, preventing thousands of citizens from registering to vote. They targeted for assassination known Sandinista supporters -prominent community leaders, party activists and candidates for municipal offices - and slit their throats.
On Oct. 21, the contras ambushed reservists who were on their way to register to vote, killing 19 and wounding six. Last Tuesday, they murdered four farmers at a cooperative near San Miguelito. At my invitation, observers from the United Nations, the Organization of American States and the U.S. embassy visited the scene of the attack to view the corpses and interview survivors.
Why the upswing in contra violence? The success of our electoral process has made them desperate. They fear that free elections, duly recognized by the international community, will end their flickering hopes of continuing the war.
Their only chance, as they see it, is to step up attacks on civilians, forcing the Government to impose necessary security measures. The Government's reaction is then to be presented to the world as evidence of its hostility to democratic elections.
The contras' main supporters inside Nicaragua - the National Opposition Union, which, like the contras, was manufactured, bought and paid for by the U.S. - are already accusing me of plotting to cancel the elections. In fact, this is precisely what they want me to do. They are as convinced as I am that when the elections are held - and they will be -the Nicaraguan people will give the Sandinistas a landslide victory.
My principal goal at the hemispheric summit in Costa Rica last weekend was to obtain the assistance of the assembled heads of state in ending contra violence. I wanted them to use their collective influence to secure full implementation of the Tela Accords, which call for the demobilization and disarmament of the contras by Dec. 5. That is the most effective way to stop contra attacks on our citizens and electoral process.
It is now clear that there is little point in concentrating our peace efforts around the single issue of a ceasefire. We do not consider it an acceptable ceasefire when we cease and the contras fire. For peace to be achieved, the war itself must be stopped. There is no other way to end the war than to start immediately the demobilization of the contras.
President Bush reacted with a torrent of personal invective. He accused me of spoiling the ''garden party'' in Costa Rica. Well, life in my country is no ''garden party.'' Eight years of war financed and directed by the Reagan and Bush Administrations have seen to that.
Even now, despite the universal praise our electoral process has earned, President Bush has taken steps to increase the suffering of the Nicaraguan people. Last week he renewed for another six months the economic embargo that has strangled all commerce between Nicaragua and the U.S. since May 1985.
Worse, President Bush has blocked all efforts to demobilize and disarm the contras as called for in the Tela Accords. He has kept the contras intact militarily by continuing to provide them with non-lethal assistance. Such direct U.S. aid violates the Tela Accords, which mandate that assistance may be provided only for demobilization, and only through a special commission.
President Bush may not intend to reactivate the contras militarily. Latin American leaders close to him tell me that he, too, wants to demobilize the contras, but not until after Nicaragua's elections. Allegedly, he fears that demobilizing them before the elections would expose him to charges of betrayal from right-wing elements of the Republican Party. Thus, current U.S. aid is supposedly intended to placate these extremists, not to resurrect the contras.
Nevertheless, the contras have used Mr. Bush's aid to increase combat activities and to inflict more death and destruction on our country.
All well meaning people want two things in Nicaragua between now and February: An end to the fighting and the holding of democratic elections. In spite of everything he has done, President Bush may mean well. He can demonstrate this by supporting prompt demobilization of the contras.
This might expose him to cries of betrayal from right-wing extremists. But the alternative is to continue to condemn the Nicaraguan people to listen to the daily cries of grief from those whose loved ones are slaughtered by the U.S.-created and financed contras.
A truly ''big man'' would have no difficulty making the right choice.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); COSTA RICA (79%); HONDURAS (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID VOTERS & VOTING (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); CIVIL WAR (74%); DISARMAMENT (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); MURDER (69%); 

PERSON: ORTEGA SAAVEDRA, DANIEL (PRES)



38 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
The Estonian Test

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

 BODY:
''Polls show it,'' Marju Lauristin said. ''It's the will of the Estonian people to be an independent country.'' Then she laughed and added, ''Now the only problem is how to fulfill this will.''
Ms. Lauristin is a teacher of journalism and sociology at Tartu University in Tallinn: hardly a political springboard, one might think. But last year she helped found the Popular Front of Estonia. This year she was elected to Mikhail Gorbachev's new Congress of People's Deputies and then to the Supreme Soviet. 
Now she is a, perhaps the, leading voice for Estonian independence. On her first visit to the United States, I asked her whether she really thought it was possible to solve what she cheerfully called ''the only problem'' - getting Soviet agreement to independence.
''We have a scenario to achieve it in five to seven years,'' Ms. Lauristin said. ''Peacefully. Nobody is talking about violence.
''To start, we think the Soviet Government will at least recognize the fact that it annexed the Baltic States in 1940.'' It would admit, that is, that Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were taken by military force, not with the popular consent that has been the official version of the event.
Why would Mikhail Gorbachev make such an admission? I asked.
''It's a test of his promise to finish with Stalinist history,'' Ms. Lauristin said.
Honesty about what happened in 1940, she argued, would also release economic energies in the Baltics. And development there would benefit the Soviet Union.
''When Mr. Gorbachev goes to Finland,'' she said, ''everyone in Estonia can see him on Finnish television. When we hear his speech in Helsinki [praising Finland as a model of stability], everybody can imagine the same speech in Tallinn.
''If the Soviet Union had conquered Finland in 1940, it would be a Soviet republic today in the same unhappy economic state as the others. And it couldn't help the Soviet Union.''
The next step toward independence, Ms. Lauristin said, would be to negotiate ''a special status for Estonia in the Soviet Union.'' It would have a confederal relationship: ''more freedom to build up democratic institutions, a multi-party system, a market economy.''
Finally, Estonians would negotiate a right to decide their attachment to the Soviet Union by referendum. That is, self-determination.
Were people in Moscow shocked, I asked, when they heard such ideas?
''At first yes,'' Ms. Lauristin said. ''But the Supreme Soviet has heard many radical ideas now. Every week, step by step, the idea of self-determination is becoming more acceptable.''
The next session of the Supreme Soviet, in December, may well confront the Baltic question. It will have a report from a commission, of which Ms. Lauristin is a member, on the Hitler-Stalin pact of 1939. And it will contain reports from similar commissions in the three Baltic republics.
''Our Estonian commission said that all actions of the so-called Revolutionary Government in 1940 were illegal,'' she said, ''because they were taken under the pressure of Soviet forces. The report declares that the declaration of unity with the Soviet Union was null and void. My mother, who is 87 now, is a member and signed the report.''
There is a strange personal element for Marju Lauristin in the effort to correct false history. Her father, Johannes, was the first leader of the Estonian Communist regime after Soviet annexation. He died in 1941. Ms. Lauristin said her mother explained that he ''was fooled by Stalin. It's clear now. But then it wasn't.'' In the Supreme Soviet, Ms. Lauristin's role is not limited to Baltic matters. She is a supporter of President Gorbachev's reform program at a time when it is under attack because of severe economic problems. (She remains a Communist Party member.) ''The threat is that neo-Stalinists may use the economic situation to rouse the population against perestroika,'' she said. ''Their solution will be to go back to a centralized, militarized, totalitarian system. It's a real threat. In the crisis, people look for enemies: intellectuals, the Baltics, cooperatives. . . .
''The Supreme Soviet is a very important school, a school of democratic procedure and rational thinking. It must show people, on television, that both sides are there making their arguments. It must show that the economic crisis cannot be solved without political reforms.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: ESTONIA (98%); FINLAND (94%); BALTIC STATES (93%); LITHUANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATVIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); ESTONIA (USSR)

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; REFERENDUMS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); REFERENDUMS (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; LAURISTIN, MARJU MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (71%); 



39 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Giving War a Chance

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
For accommodationists, this week was the best of times and the worst of times.
The spring of Hope blossomed with the revelation of a pre-summit summit session at sea, symbolic of President Bush taking the plunge into helping the Soviet dictator rescue his economy in payment for freedom in Eastern Europe. (The ''who lost Gorbachev?'' threat got to him.) But simultaneously, the winter of Despair blew in with the decision by the Nicaraguan dictator to give war a chance - thereby causing embarrassment to doves from the U.S. Congress to Central America who had insisted that peace would flow from our cutoff of military aid to the contras. 
What does this jarring juxtaposition of events teach us? How can President Ortega's double-cross prepare us to deal with President Gorbachev?
First, we should thank the Nicaraguan strongman and his junta for reminding us that real Communists play to win. Staying in power is the name of their game. Mr. Ortega's promises of free elections, reiterated as his 120,000-man army breaks the cease-fire, are intended only to fool our Congress and disarm his opposition.
Second, we should never underestimate the capacity of accommodationists to fall back further. After the shock of the Communist declaration of war on its opponents wears off, we will hear a cacophony of alibis: We should never have given humanitarian aid to our debilitated allies; the remaining contras deliberately thrust their noses into Communist fists, etc.
Third, we should remember that appeasement does not always lead to war; sometimes it leads to surrender. Amid outraged cries on Capitol Hill, I-told-you-so's from the White House and fierce hand-wringing at the U.N., one waits in vain for a call to re-arm the opposition. ''If Mr. Ortega wants to resume the killing again,'' intones the White House spokesman, ''that is his business.''
Our business, it seems, is to prattle about ''the peace process''; to rub the noses of the gullible Central American leaders in its failure; to luxuriate in world condemnation of the victorious despot; to pretend our inaction is a clever way to avoid giving Communists an excuse for canceling elections, and to continue to be the patient pygmy of the North.
Take a parallelogram: While Mr. Gorbachev permits thugs and tyrants to be ousted in his sphere of influence, Mr. Bush permits the likes of Manuel Noriega and Daniel Ortega to repress freedom in our sphere.
That cannot be our foreign policy. Nobody suggests that we send in the Marines, by jingo, but we bear some responsibility for human rights in our backyard. We should have learned by now that no chorus of miffed outsiders shouting ''For shame!'' is going to oust the Communist regime in Nicaragua.
More effective than this so-called diplomatic pressure will be a combination of (1) a clear Presidential articulation of the goal to help Nicaraguans replace a regime that will find any excuse to kill its opposition; (2) serious and sustained military pressure by contras supplied with plenty of the most lethal aid, and (3) economic pressure beyond an embargo.
Now we come to the confluence of the Dickensian epoch of belief and epoch of incredulity, to see how the best of times can be used to ameliorate the worst of times.
The Communist regime repressing freedom in Nicaragua is supported financially by the Communist regime repressing freedom in Cuba, which in turn is kept afloat by a massive subsidy from the Communist regime in the Soviet Union, which is led by the man who needs our help.
We should not expect Mr. Gorbachev to pick up the phone and say to Mr. Castro, ''Tell Ortega to hold a free election in February or I start saving a billion a year in bailing out Cuba''; nothing so crass as that. Subtler diplomatic channels exist to get the identical point across.
Is it too much to expect the sherpas preparing the floating summit session to suggest a way to improve the atmosphere beforehand? One way would be to get their clients in Cuba to call off the dogs in Nicaragua - to refrain from taking advantage of U.S. irresolution in Central America just as we refrain from taking advantage of Soviet weakness in Eastern Europe.
Linkage lives. Mr. Bush extracted nothing from the Gorbachev need for summit spectaculars, but that was before the Ortega double-cross.
The Soviet leader wants absolution in advance for crackdowns to come. Not only should that trap be sidestepped and Baltic independence urged, but the Soviet subsidy of the Cuban subsidy of the Ortega offensive should be put down as an unfriendly act.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA; CUBA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ARMIES (77%); CIVIL WAR (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



40 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: California to Act on Temporary Tax for Quake Aid

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., Nov. 1

 BODY:
The California Legislature will meet Thursday in a special session to vote on a temporary increase in the state sales tax to raise $800 million for earthquake relief and repairs.
State officials said the money would not nearly cover the full cost of repairing roads, bridges and buildings damaged by the Oct. 17 quake.
But a larger package would run afoul of state taxing and spending limits imposed by the voters in recent years. Thus consideration of more money for earthquake relief will await the results of a referendum already scheduled for June 1990, when voters will decide whether to ease the spending limit imposed in 1979 as part of a statewide tax revolt. 
Legislative leaders and Gov. George Deukmejian agreed Monday on the plan to add a quarter-cent to the sales tax, which ranges from 6 to 7 cents throughout California, depending on local levies. The increase would begin Dec. 1 and end 13 months later.
 
Costs in the Billions
The Governor, a Republican who has built a political career on his opposition to tax increases, said the money raised, when added to $3.45 billion in Federal emergency aid and a portion of the state's $674 million budget reserve, would be adequate to cover the state's initial costs of damage from the quake.
Officials of the San Francisco Bay Area estimate at least $10 billion will be needed for repairs and relief. Roadways and buildings that are the responsibilities of state and local government suffered an estimated $5 billion in damages.
''The quarter-cent is inadequate, and probably grossly inadequate, to meet our needs,'' declared Don Perata, an Alameda County Supervisor, who along with other county supervisors has written to the Governor and Legislature urging immediate imposition of a penny sales tax increase.
 
Other Earthquake Bills
The State Seismic Safety Commission, meeting in San Francisco on Tuesday, concluded that the temporary sales tax increase will barely touch the state's long-term costs of repairing damages from the quake.
The Legislature, which would normally not reconvene until January, will also vote this week on bills to provide tax relief for earthquake victims, put highway construction programs on a faster track than normal and set up a compensation fund for individuals unable to receive adequate relief from Federal disaster funds.
To spend a one-cent sales tax increase, as called for Tuesday by officials in Alameda County, legislators would have to waive the limit temporarily and then cut state spending in future years.
 
Trouble Before Tremor
A special election could be called to lift the limit and raise taxes sooner, but the Governor and legislative leaders fear that early approval of new taxes might hamper efforts to pass a June 1990 ballot measure aimed at freeing the state from some of the restraints caused by the spending limit. The measure would amend the state's Constitution to remove new gasoline taxes from the spending limit, then allow for a 9-cent-a-gallon tax increase over the next five years to pay for construction and repairs of the state's highways, which were badly deteriorated even before the earthquake.
By imposing a relatively modest tax increase now and spreading it out over two of the state's fiscal years, which begin July 1, the state can avoid bumping against the limit, which is tied to a complicated formula involving inflation and population growth.
To avoid overspending its limit, however, the state may simply shift most of the new tax money to counties, which in some cases may have to call special local elections to allow them to spend over their limits to make repairs.

GRAPHIC: photo of San Francisco residents looking through rubble for belongings (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA; SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SALES TAX; EARTHQUAKES EARTHQUAKES (91%); SALES TAX (91%); DISASTER RELIEF (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); COUNTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DAMAGES (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (77%); GASOLINE (73%); FUEL TAX (73%); APPROVALS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); EDDIE GEORGE (56%); 



41 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Prosperity Seen After Pain of Quake

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 1

 BODY:
These days, getting a table at the Washington Square Bar and Grill is easy. Ed Moose, the owner, says business at his usually bustling North Beach establishment is off at least 20 percent since the Oct. 17 earthquake.
''We're losing about $1,000 a day,'' Mr. Moose said.
At nearby Fisherman's Wharf, Michael Sabella, partner and chef at Sabella's, A Restaurant, said: ''Business has been terrible, off 70 percent. I just wish that soon everybody would realize that the majority of San Francisco is back to normal.'' 
Hotels and restaurants have begun laying off employees as business has dropped as much as 85 percent at some of them. The major department stores in the Union Square shopping area say they are still experiencing slow sales. And many people are out of a job as a result of the business decline.
 
Long-Term Outlook Excellent
But if the aftermath of the quake has all but halted some businesses, economists say the long-term outlook for the broader economy of the Bay Area remains excellent. Repair costs and revenue shortages that some businesses will suffer will be offset in the economy as a whole by increased construction, the economists say.
Still, the short-term effects for certain businesses are dire, particularly for those dependent on tourism. Generating about $3.4 billion in revenue annually, tourism is the city's No. 1 industry.
Many hotels are operating at a fraction of their typical occupancy rates, and some stores say they fear the closing of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge will cost them their crucial East Bay business for the Christmas season. Small service businesses, from taxis to dry cleaners, have already seen a substantial drop in income as the effect of the business dropoff ripples down the economic structure.
 
Unemployment Is Seen Rising
Before to the earthquake, San Francisco's unemployment rate was 4.2 percent. The San Francisco Chamber of Commerce says the current rate has not been calculated but it is presumed to be significantly higher, the result primarily of the layoff of employees at hotels and restaurants.
Tapan Munroe, chief economist for the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, said there is likely to be a negative impact on the employment rate for about three months, primarily affecting hourly workers in retail sales. ''But as the aid money flows into the region we're going to see a boom,'' he said. ''Six months from now we will see a very positive effect.''
The boom will primarily benefit workers with more skills, at least at first. ''The entire engineering and construction industry will see a very significant boom, not just in San Francisco, but the entire 10-county area surrounding it,'' Mr. Munroe said. In addition to repairs and new construction, there will extensive upgrading of buildings to meet current standards for earthquake resistance.
 
Fewer Optional Purchases
The losses to personal wealth will mean fewer optional purchases for some time, said Stephen E. Roulac, chief executive of the Roulac Consulting Group, a unit of Deloitte Haskins & Sells, an accounting firm. ''Clearly we're going to have a redirection from consumer non-durable goods'' to replacement and repair of damaged structures and property, he said.
Reconstruction costs and the resulting increases in rent or real estate prices will reshape the demographics of some neighborhoods and business districts, the economists said. Small locally owned businesses could be displaced by chains in areas like Santa Cruz's Pacific Garden Mall, while the residential hotels and dilapidated apartments of San Francisco's Tenderloin district are less likely to be repaired than replaced with more expensive housing.
Mr. Roulac said a longer-term impact of the quake will be to push lower-income people out of the city, perhaps to Oakland, and to draw upper-middle income families back, as damaged hotels and apartment buildings in some run-down areas are replaced with new condominiums.
''Places like the Tenderloin will require such high capital costs to bring structures to seismic standards that only upper-middle-class people will be able to afford to live there,'' he said.
The quake also raises the question of the vulnerability of any industry that is concentrated heavily in Northern California, like personal computers. But few are expected to shift operations in response to it, economists and executives say. Rising real estate prices and labor shortages have already prompted many companies to move manufacturing out of the Bay Area and will continue to do so, not the forces of nature, they say.
''In general, for the economy as a whole, it probably will be hard to notice'' the quake's impact, said Randall Pozdena, assistant vice president and economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. ''There will be a shortfall while there's disruption of business, but offsetting that will be money coming in from outside the area, which, on balance, will probably make the situation a wash.''
 
Real Estate Outlook Bright
Based on previous earthquakes, the impact on real estate values is likely to be limited and temporary, Mr. Pozdena said. After the 1971 quake in the Sylmar area of Southern California, ''home sales volume dropped for two or three months, but then returned to the trend of the basin as a whole, and prices remained about the same,'' he said. ''After the 1906 earthquake, housing prices actually went up.''
Despite the damage and disruption, Mr. Munroe of Pacific Gas and Electric, he sees some real long-term benefits arising from the quake, like a much-needed upgrading of Bay Area transit systems, and a greater willingness from employers to experiment with flexible work schedules and having employees work at home by using personal computers and facsimile machines. ''We only act and do difficult things when there's a crisis,'' he said. ''This may be a great opportunity.'' But the businesses dependent on tourists want people to know the city offers a great opportunity for visitors now. A few restaurants at Fisherman's Wharf and nearby Pier 39, another favorite tourist site, have begun giving customers stamped postcards to write to friends and relatives to tell them that most of San Francisco is back to normal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (63%); PCG (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (63%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PG&E CORP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA; CALIFORNIA; SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF)

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RESTAURANTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (77%); HOTEL STAFF (76%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); RETAIL SALES (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TRENDS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); TOURISM (66%); ENGINEERING (66%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (64%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M



42 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 16, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Regulation Urged for Money Exchanges

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
The chairman of the Senate Banking Committee said today that he was preparing legislation to regulate thousands of small businesses through which recent immigrants send money to relatives and also through which vast sums of illegal drug money are laundered.
A small percentage of these storefront operations, which are mostly in cities, are legitimate and licensed under some state laws. They transmit money to other states and countries, cash checks and exchange different currencies.
But the vast majority of them are unlicensed and unregulated and currently fall between the cracks of Federal and state efforts to combat money laundering and consumer fraud. The worst problems are in New York, Florida, California and Texas, where some regulators estimate that billions of dollars are being funneled through the check-cashing and money-transmitting businesses to destinations in South America and Asia. 
 
'It's a 50-State Problem'
Senator Donald W. Riegle, chairman of the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, said the laundering of illegal drug proceeds through these operations is ''not a one-state problem or a one-city problem.''
''It's a 50-state problem and it is an emergency, so I think we need a Federal answer,'' the Michigan Democrat said, adding that legislation to regulate such activities ''would be put on the fast track.''
''Launderers are making an increased use of check cashing and other neighborhood operations,'' Mr. Riegle said. ''This would do the most to disrupt the flow of money into and out of the country.''
He said the Bush Administration ''has not made an effort to control this problem.''
Mr. Riegle made his remarks in response to questions sent through his spokeswoman, Karolyn Wallace, and at a hearing earlier in the day before the banking Subcommittee on Consumer and Regulatory Affairs.
 
Loophole for Drug Dealers
At the hearing, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, the New York Republican who also sits on the banking committee, said the current system of state regulation and nonregulation of the money-transitting operations was ''a loophole that drug dealers are exploiting to the fullest.''
The proposed legislation, which woulafaffect t,usands of checcacashi c companies, money exchgeges and transtttting seicices, comes in response to a handful of cases brought by prosecutors and a recent complaints by state regulators who said state laws and procedures were too weak to enable them to monitor these businesses or prosecute them adequately.
The transmitters typically take cash - often delivered in suitcases or cartons - and then repackage it in less suspicious money sacks and deposit it into a bank account under the name of a real or fictitious company. From there it can be electronically transferred in seconds to Latin America or Asia.
Regulators say the check-cashing operations and money exchangers are often used to convert huge volumes of cash into money orders or checks, which can be easily transported across the border or deposited in a bank account without arousing suspicion.
 
Senator's Proposals
Mr. Riegle said the legislation probably would require the businesses to have a certified seal in a conspicuous place to show that they had been licensed. It would also enable Federal authorities to prosecute those businesses that do not comply with the new laws. He said money for the enforcement of the new Federal law would come from the illegal money that would be seized.
Senator John F. Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, said the legislation would be moving quickly and might be ready after the winter recess.
''We're going to be working pretty hard at getting it out as soon as we can,'' said Mr. Kerry, who has been holding hearings on money-laundering issues. ''But we don't want to rush through with something without fully exploring its consequences.''
Salvatore R. Martoche, assistant secretary of the Treasury for enforcement and the Administration official overseeing controls on money laundering, said the Administration would not take a position on Mr. Riegle's proposals until he reviewed them.
 
Trade Group's Defense
Jerome S. Gagerman, chairman of the National Check Cashers Association, a trade group that represents more than 600 businesses that operate more than 1,500 check-cashing locations, said there was no need for further regulation. ''The overwhelming majority of check cashers know their responsibilities and comply with all of the regulatory requirements,'' he said.
The Federal Bank Secrecy Act requires banks to report domestic deposits of more than $10,000, but regulators say the money-transmitting and check operations make it easy to conceal suspicious transactions.
Bank regulators in New York have already identified more than 130 illegal operations and believe that many more exist. These operations have been identified through complaints of fraud that have been filed by legitimate customers who are often recent immigrants trying to send money to relatives in Latin America. The penalty for such operations under the state law is a misdemeanor punishable by a maximum sentence of one year in jail and a $500 fine.
''The penalty is merely a slap on the wrist,'' said Timothy D. Mahoney, the director of the special investigations division of the New York Department of Banks.
Similiar problems confront regulators in other states. State bank regulators are meeting this week in Austin, Tex., to explore the growing problem. Florida's comptroller, Gerald Lewis, said that in his state, ''it's a monumental problem.'' He added in his testimony that the state did not regulate check cashing or money transmitters.
 
Trade Alternative to Drugs
WASHINGTON, Nov. 1 (AP) -President Bush today announced a package of trade initiatives to help create ''economic alternatives to drug trafficking'' for Colombia, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador and Venezuela.
The initiatives grew out of a promise Mr. Bush made to President Virgilio Barco Vargas of Colombia last month to expand economic trade as part of the war on drugs.
The White House said the initiatives were intended to bolster trade with the Andean nations. It said they will include expanding the list of agricultural and industrial products that will be allowed into the United States duty-free. The White House gave no specifics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; MONEY LAUNDERING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CURRENCY MONEY LAUNDERING (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); RETAILERS (72%); 

PERSON: RIEGLE, DONALD W JR (SEN); LABATON, STEPHEN CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



43 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 22, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Notebook;
St. John's Hoping for Playoff Spot

BYLINE: By WILLIAM N. WALLACE

 BODY:
While bowl-game speculation has begun at the major college level, playoff talk is also rife at the small college level. Does St. John's, with an 8-0 record for the first time in its football history, stand a chance? What about Montclair State (6-1-1) and Trenton State (7-0-1)?
Of the 87 teams in the East playing at the Division III level, only four will be chosen for the 16-team playoffs for the championship won by Ithaca last year and Wagner the year before. Selections will be made on Nov. 12. 
The Division III poll, conducted under the auspices of the National Collegiate Athletic Association but carrying no official weight, again this week has two upstate New York teams first and second, Cortland State and Union, both 8-0.
St. John's, which has games left against Georgetown (2-6) and Hofstra (6-2), is third; Trenton State fourth, and Montclair State is tied for fifth with Lowell.
Montclair and Trenton are tied for first in the New Jersey Athletic Conference after their 31-31 tie on Saturday. The race is far from over because each team has two league games left, the second one Nov. 11 against a strong opponent with a winning record. Montclair finishes against Glassboro State (4-2-2), while Trenton meets Ramapo (5-2).
The competition is so keen that a team with two defeats stands little or no chance of getting an N.C.A.A. playoff bid. That would include Wagner (5-2), following defeats by Hofstra and C. W. Post, that marked the first time the Seahawks lost consecutive games in Walt Hameline's nine years as head coach.
 
Costly Injury for Wagner
John Lavelis, C. W. Post's defensive end, was partly responsible for Wagner's demise. His hard sack of Ray Benvenuti knocked the Seahawk quarterback out of the game and out for the season. Lavelis, a transfer from Delaware with 17 sacks for the season, has also accounted for 145 yards lost by opponents.
Wagner has an intersectional opponent for Saturday's home game, Wisconsin-Platteville, which had 571 yards rushing in its last game, a 57-14 rout of Wisconsin-Superior.
 
Unusual Feat for Snyder
Columbia had something to cheer about in its loss to Bucknell, its seventh straight of the season. Galen Snyder, the inside linebacker, had a part in 35 tackles, an unbelievable total that was verified by coaches from the game film. Bucknell had 83 plays, so Snyder, a transfer from Duke, helped stop 42 percent. No wonder he was the Eastern College Athletic Conference defensive-player-of-the week for Division I-AA.
Judd Garrett of Princeton was the offensive choice for his game against Harvard.
 
Liberty Bowl Awaits Winner
An invitation to the Liberty Bowl in Memphis on Dec. 28 and the Commander-in-Chief Trophy will be the probable rewards for the winner of the Air Force-Army game at Colorado Springs on Saturday.
The Cadet defense will have its hands full against Dee Dowis, the quick 155-pound quarterback for the Falcons.
In Air Force's last game, a loss to Texas Christian, Dowis lacked impressive statistics. But his coach, Fisher DeBerry, said Dowis should still be a strong Heisman Trophy candidate, ''for what he means to us. He's excellent.''
Mike Thorson, Army's cornerback, was one of the 11 senior scholar-athletes from Division I-A teams that won $4,000 graduate scholarships from the National Football Foundation. Thorson, majoring in economics, has a 3.995 grade-point average.
Other Eastern players who won scholarships were Mark Kamphaus, the Boston College quarterback, and Steve Tardy, a Rutgers offensive lineman.
 
Tough Schedule for Fordham
Fordham, outscored by 148-24 in losing its four Colonial League games, drops back to the Division III level for its final two contests, both at home. But Coach Larry Glueck warns it will not be easy against Hofstra and C. W. Post.
Eddie Pearson, the senior back who contributed so much to the Rams in previous seasons, has played little because of a chronic ankle injury. ''He can't seem to get well,'' Glueck said.
 
All for Naught
Dave Murphy, the Holy Cross senior cornerback, has blocked 10 punts in his career. He had two against Brown plus a block of a conversion placement. . . . Dave Goodwin's 445 yards passing was the second-highest total in Colgate history. But his team was beaten by Lafayette, 38-33.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COLLEGE ATHLETICS SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); 



44 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 22, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Progress Reported in Opera Strike Talks

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
After intensive bargaining Monday through yesterday, the New York City Opera and its orchestra said yesterday afternoon that they had made substantial progress in settling the orchestra's six-week-old strike.
As a result, the company announced that it was proceeding with its spring musicals season at the New York State Theater in Lincoln Center, which it had threatened to cancel if a settlement had not been reached by yesterday. There are no plans, however, to revive the regular fall opera season, which had been scheduled to run until Nov. 19 and which the company canceled on Oct. 12. 
By joint agreement, no details of the terms that have been agreed upon will be released. Both Martin J. Oppenheimer, vice chairman of the City Opera and its chief labor negotiator, and John Palanchian, vice president of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, said the progress made yesterday did not constitute a tentative agreement. When such an agreement is approved by the orchestra's negotiating committee, it must be submitted to the full 69-member ensemble for ratification.
''We still have a number of noneconomic issues to resolve,'' Mr. Oppenheimer said. ''They are important to both sides, but we are confident we can work them out in the next few days.''
Mr. Palanchian cautioned that ''a couple of those issues do have some economic impact.'' The two sides are to meet again today.
Mr. Oppenheimer said a new contract must still be negotiated with the American Guild of Musical Artists, which represents 250 company solo singers, choristers, dancers and stage directors. Traditionally, guild pacts have followed the guidelines of the orchestra contracts. The previous federation and guild contracts expired May 30.
Christopher Keene, the new general director of the City Opera, has been known to be exploring ways of reshaping the company's repertory schedule, which in the fall has meant up to eight performances a week.
Mr. Keene said yesterday that the new contract would provide a ''very productive framework and structure for us to make changes.''
Except in 1986, every contract negotiation between the City Opera and its orchestra since 1962 has provoked a labor dispute. In 1983, there was a 54-day strike. The terms of the resulting contract embittered the orchestra. Asked if the new pact was likely to alleviate some of that bitterness, Mr. Palanchian said, ''Unless something unforeseen happens, I think so.''
The spring musicals seasons have been underwritten by a five-year $5 million grant from the late philanthropist Lawrence Wien. The 1990 musical, to run Feb. 26 to April 22, is known to be ''The Sound of Music'' by Richard Rodgers, but the final rights have not yet been obtained. The run will represent the last year of the Wien commitment, and Mr. Keene is thought to be less enthused about continuing spring musicals than was his predecessor, Beverly Sills.
The main issues in the strike, which began on Sept. 13, have been the company's initial attempt - since abandoned - to eliminate the six weeks beyond the regular 23-week opera season in which the players have been provided either employment or half-pay supplemental income, and the orchestra's desire for wages and a workload that would bring them closer to such orchestras as those of the San Francisco Opera and the Lyric Opera of Chicago. An average City Opera orchestra member earned about $27,000 last year.
At an informal bargaining session on Monday, the company was said to have presented a new proposal, to which the orchestra responded at a noon session on Tuesday. There was another four-hour session Tuesday night, and one at noon yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION INSURANCE CO (57%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY OPERA

SUBJECT: OPERA; STRIKES; ORCHESTRAS AND OTHER MUSIC GROUPS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION STRIKES (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); OPERA (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC (89%); THEATER (77%); DANCE (71%); APPROVALS (68%); DANCERS (64%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN CHRISTOPHER KEENE (71%); 



45 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
The book publishing industry was stunned by the news that the man who for 23 years has headed Random House, the nation's largest publisher of general-interest books, would step down at the end of the year. Robert L. Bernstein described his departure as a resignation; S. I. Newhouse Jr., whose family owns Random House, said Mr. Bernstein had retired. [Page A1.] Sudden change in a Newhouse-owned property has become predictable.[D20.] 
 
Campbell Soup's chief executive will take early retirement. His responsibilities were quickly divided between two executives.[D1.]
 
The Los Angeles Herald Examiner will cease publication today, Hearst said, leaving the nation's No. 2 city with just one metropolitan paper.[D21.]
 
A pending settlement involving Sony, Guber Peters Entertainment and Time Warner could be worth $400 million. [D20.]
 
New England Electric formally withdrew its $2 billion bid for the assets of Public Service of New Hampshire. [D5.]
 
Harold C. Simmons renewed his quest for Georgia Gulf, making a conditional offer for the chemicals company. [D5.]
 
A $7.3 million fine against USX has been proposed by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. [A18.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
M. Danny Wall defended his handling of what could be the costliest savings and loan failure on record. [A1.]
 
President Bush is considering making permanent the $16 billion in spending cuts that took effect on Oct. 16. [D1.]
 
The Bush Administration is expected to challenge more large mergers than the Reagan Administration did. [D1.]
 
The manufacturing sector declined for the sixth consecutive month, but at a lesser rate. [D8.] Orders to the nation's factories for manufactured goods remained steady in September. [D9.] Construction spending was unchanged in September. [D9.] The nation's economic growth continued to vary from slow to moderate early this fall, the Federal Reserve said. [D8.]
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
Mexico is still waiting for most of its commercial bank creditors to decide how they plan to carry out July's historic debt reduction agreement, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari said. [D1.]
 
The U.S. eased a threat of trade sanctions against South Korea, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia, saying they had begun to crack down on pirates of films, records, software and other products. [D1.]
 
Fujitsu plunged into deeper trouble in the furor over Japanese Government computer contracts. [D1.]
 
MARKETS
 
The outcry on Wall Street and Main Street over computerized stock trading has become so great that new market rules are being adopted and others appear imminent. [A1.] The Chicago Merc said it had tightened rules for ''circuit breakers.'' [D13.]
 
Stocks ended mixed on moderate volume, and the Dow Jones industrial average edged up 0.82 points, to 2,645.90. [D10.]
 
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds moved modestly higher in moderate trading, as signs of continued softness in the economy persuaded some market participants to buy securities. [D18.] Yields of money market mutual funds were down for the week ended yesterday, but not as much as those on C.D.'s. [D15.] Sugar futures prices soared to 15-month highs. [D19.] The dollar ended higher against leading currencies. [D19.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS

 
Lenders and Wall Street executives are becoming increasingly involved in running corporate America. Talking Deals. [D2.]
 
The value of ''junk bonds'' in many mutual funds is overstated because of the way the funds price the issues. Market Place. [D10.]
 
By naming a marketing-services specialist, Backer Spielvogel Bates Worldwide is positioning itself to capture more of the marketing-service business. Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FUJ (LSE) (52%); 6702 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); NORTHEAST USA (71%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: FUJITSU LTD (52%); OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PUBLISHING (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (86%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BONDS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); CHEMICALS MFG (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (65%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (52%); FINES & PENALTIES (52%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



46 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Bush Seeks An Edge on Gains Tax

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Seeking to regain a tactical advantage in his fight for a cut in the capital gains tax, President Bush is seriously considering proposals to make permanent the $16 billion in automatic spending cuts that took effect on Oct. 16, Republican Congressional leaders said today.
The capital gains tax and the spending cuts have become linked in the Congressional maneuvering over how to fashion a deficit-reduction plan that would undo the spending cuts and at the same time permit final action on a number of other measures attached to the House version of that plan.
Those measures include modifications to the catastrophic health insurance program and a temporary cut in the capital gains tax.
 
Reductions in Medicare
The spending cuts - $8 billion from the Pentagon budget and $8 billion from a variety of domestic programs - have already reduced reimbursements for Medicare beneficiaries by 2 percent and would eventually force sharp reductions in education grants. 
Over time, they would also mean cuts in military personnel on active duty and could require layoffs of other Federal employees, including drug-enforcement agents, law-enforcement personnel and air traffic controllers.
The cuts were required under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings balanced-budget law because Congress failed to meet the law's deadline for devising its own deficit-reduction plan.
The Republican leaders who met with Mr. Bush on Tuesday to discuss tax and budget strategy said the President had made no decision on whether to let the automatic budget cuts stand. But they said his top advisers - Richard G. Darman, the budget director, and John H. Sununu, the chief of staff - were strongly in favor of such a course. Mr. Darman has publicly urged this for some time.
 
Advantages for White House
Allowing the spending cuts to become permanent could help the White House meet next year's targets for cutting the deficit and also assist it in tactical maneuvering this year to get a vote on cutting the capital gains tax.
Congressional Democrats have proposed a deal in which the deficit-reduction plan would include changes in the health insurance program and the extension of a variety of tax breaks popular in both parties.
Republicans contend that if Mr. Bush were to veto such a Congressional deficit-reduction plan or simply to tell Congress there was no need for one, Democrats would have to deal with the health insurance program and the tax breaks in a separate tax bill. Under those circumstances, some Republicans think they would gain the leverage they now lack to force a Senate vote on cutting the capital gains tax.
Administration officials and Congressional Republicans said the option had become more attractive to President Bush in recent days because of new calculations suggesting that the effect of permanent cuts on the Pentagon budget would not be as severe as previously thought.
Administration and Congressional officials said Mr. Sununu had been presented with the numbers and believed they demonstrated that the Pentagon ''could survive'' the automatic spending cuts for a year.
''Sequester has some attractive benefits to it,'' the White House press secretary, Marlin Fitzwater, told reporters today, using the technical term for the automatic spending cuts. ''We are looking at what it would do. We are planning it into the economies of all the departments, including the Pentagon, and we think we can handle it.''
Senate Democratic leaders said that they take the Adminstration's threat of a permanent sequester seriously, but that it would not be enough to change any minds on a capital gains tax cut. ''We simply are not going to be blackjacked into voting for it on the basis of a sequester,'' said Senator Jim Sasser, the Tennessee Democrat who heads the Senate Budget Committtee.
''It is clear that the White House is coming more and more to wanting a sequester,'' said Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance Committee and chief sponsor of a plan to cut the capital gains tax rate permanently.
 
'Whole New Ball Game'
Mr. Packwood, who conceded that Republicans are currently at a tactical disadvantage, said that if Mr. Bush were to agree to make the spending cuts permanent, ''it's a whole new ball game.''
Mr. Packwood said the Administration had determined that even with the automatic budget cuts in effect, the amount the Pentagon will spend in the current fiscal year will be only $3 billion less than it would spend if the cuts were rescinded. Initially, he said, the estimates had indicated a gap of $12 billion to $15 billion.
Congressional budget specialists confirmed those estimates, adding however, that because much of the Pentagon's spending is planned on a multi-year basis, automatic cuts this year could pose serious budget difficulties for the Pentagon in fiscal 1991.
Mr. Sasser disputed the Administration's calculations on the Pentagon budget for the current fiscal year and said the effects of making the automatic spending cuts permanent would be more damaging to the Pentagon than the Administration is now suggesting.
 
Report From Gingrich
Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the House Republican whip and one of those who attended the Tuesday meeting with the President, said Mr. Bush was not prepared to accept a deficit-reduction plan that ''did not meet his goals.''
But Mr. Gingrich said he thought the President would sign a deficit plan if he had an agreement from Senate Democrats that there would be a vote on the substance of a capital gains tax cut proposal.
Although Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Packwood clearly favor the idea of making the automatic spending cuts permanent, that view is not shared by two leading Senate Republicans -the Senate minority leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, and the senior Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, Pete Domenici of New Mexico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: GRAMM-RUDMAN-HOLLINGS ACT

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CAPITAL GAINS TAX (92%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); ARMED FORCES (67%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (52%); 

PERSON: RASKY, SUSAN F; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



47 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Eases Threats of Sanctions

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Because South Korea, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia have started cracking down on pirated versions of American films, records, pharmaceuticals, software and other products, the United States eased a threat of trade sanctions against them. But Washington left five other countries on its priority watch list: Brazil, India, Mexico, China and Thailand.
The United States also warned Malaysia and Turkey that they must provide better protection.
Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, issued a status report today on how the United States is faring in its effort to curb losses on American products - estimated at up to $61 billion a year - because of inadequate protection abroad of ''intellectual property rights.'' 
 
Trade Sanctions
Mrs. Hills's report said some trading partners were tightening their rules because of the possible sanctions and ''the growing realization around the world that denial of adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights is harmful to the national economic interests of all trading nations.''
South Korea, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia were removed from the so-called ''priority watch list,'' which serves as a warning that a country is being closely scrutinized as a prelude to a possible investigation and trade retaliation.
Under the 1988 Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act, sanctions were mandated against countries that deny ''adequate and effective protection'' to copyrights, patents and other intellectual property.
The Saudis agreed to enact a copyright law protecting among other things literary works, software and sound recordings. It is the first such law in a Persian Gulf nation. Taiwan has cracked down on theaters that use ordinary videocassette machines to show pirated American films. South Korea arrested textbook pirates, including the owner of one of its largest pirate book operations, Tower Press.
 
Next Report in April
The International Intellectual Property Alliance, comprising 1,600 companies with $270 billion of gross revenues last year, voiced concern that greater improvement had not been made.
Eric Smith, the general counsel of the organization, warned that it would seek a sanctions designation for some or all of the five countries remaining on the priority watch list if their performance did not improve by April 30, which is when the trade representative makes the next status report.
In addition to the ''priority watch list,'' the United States has set up a second category of countries whose trading practices it is dissatisfied with, though not to the same degree as the others.
Seventeen countries were put on this list in May. Today, Mrs. Hills made no changes to the list except for the warnings given to Turkey and Malaysia.
 
'Disturbing Developments'
Mrs. Hills spoke of ''recent disturbing developments in Turkey'' and noted ''continuing slow progress in Malaysia.'' She said that ''as a result, over the coming weeks the United States Government will step up efforts to make progress with both these countries.''
Turkey, said Mr. Smith of the Intellectual Property Alliance, ''has not been forthcoming at all in improving its level of protection and enforcement for U.S. copyrighted works, other than sound recordings.''
He added that a legislative amendment proposed by the Turkish Ministry of Culture threatens to close down the newly opened video market in Turkey as well.
Akin Istanbullu, economic and commercial counselor at the Turkish Embassy, said the warning was not expected by his Government and that any more detailed comment would have to come from Ankara.
 
No Accord With Malaysia
The argument with Malaysia is over its unwillingess to sign an agreement with the United States that would give American works protection. Pirated American books, audios, software and films find an easy market in neighboring Singapore.
Ahmad Fuzi, Deputy Chief of Mission at the Malaysian Embassy, said his Government has had discussions with the United States and ''we hope that the matter will be resolved to the satisfaction of both sides.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MALAYSIA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); TAIWAN (94%); TURKEY (94%); BRAZIL (93%); THAILAND (93%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (91%); GULF STATES (58%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; SOUTH KOREA; TAIWAN; SAUDI ARABIA; BRAZIL; INDIA; MEXICO; CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF; THAILAND; MALAYSIA; TURKEY

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (91%); PATENT LAW (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); FILM (89%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (78%); COPYRIGHT (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); COPYRIGHT LAW (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ESPIONAGE (72%); PATENTS (69%); MARITIME PIRACY (69%); LAWYERS (67%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%); LITERATURE (64%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H



48 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: More Antitrust Challenges Are Expected Under Bush

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
The Bush Administration will be challenging many more large mergers and suing more companies for false advertising than the Reagan Administration did, Administration officials and antitrust experts are predicting.
These experts say a less ideological approach to free markets by President Bush, a belief that antitrust enforcement was far too lax in the 1980's, and pressure from state law-enforcement officials will result in the Government's stiffer attitude.
''I don't want to draw comparisons with the prior Administration, but I do take a pragmatic approach to antitrust enforcement,'' said James F. Rill, the new Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Justice Department's antitrust division. ''I will require hard evidence before I make a decision not to challenge a merger that otherwise looks like it could have anticompetitive effects.'' 
The new approach is likely to take a clearer shape on Friday, when Janet D. Steiger, the new chairwoman of the Federal Trade Commission, and Mr. Rill are scheduled to address antitrust attorneys at the Harvard Law School and present their agendas.
Mrs. Steiger declined to be interviewed before her speech.
Indeed, though few anticipate a return to the hyperactive antitrust policies of the 50's and 60's, the attorneys foresee a noticeable change from the Reagan years, when the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission permitted almost every big merger to go through unchallenged.
Charles F. Rule, President Reagan's last antitrust chief at the Justice Department, commented, ''You do get rumblings that suggest they are not quite as confident in the market and feel the Government should get more involved.''
 
Stronger States' Role
The apparent change in policy comes as many state attorneys general have been increasing their antimerger and false advertising lawsuits, as well as advocating tough anti-takeover laws, contending that they are only filling a vacuum created by relaxed antitrust enforcement by the Reagan Administration.
That has actually led some companies to seek more action on the Federal level. They say that a unified Federal policy will be more welcome than 50 different policies by state officials and legislatures.
Yet the antitrust experts warn that toughening Federal policy on mergers and false advertising may be difficult, since for years Federal courts have upheld the more permissive approach and may not be inclined to reverse themselves.
Any changes, the antitrust professionals say, would primarily reflect Mr. Bush's pragmatic approach to problems and his willingness to compromise to promote policy.
''Most people in the Reagan Administration came with certain strong principles they wanted to articulate and enunciate,'' said Mr. Rule, the Reagan antitrust official. ''The Bush folks are going to be more pragmatic and less viewing themselves in the role of leading the policy debate.''
 
A Vigorous Agenda
Even though the President still believes in free markets, he proposed a vigorous agenda in his 1988 Presidential campaign, promising safer work settings and a cleaner environment - a course that, if pursued, could bring a confrontation with big business over mergers, as well as with advertisers over the accuracy of their campaigns.
One indication of a more aggressive policy came in July, when Mr. Rill attended a meeting of state attorneys general and promised cooperation in antitrust enforcement. He also agreed to set up an executive working group on antitrust issues made up of top Federal and state officials.
Last week, Mr. Rill and Mrs. Steiger and five state attorneys general met for the first time.
Many of the experts attribute the development to the new aggressiveness of the National Association of Attorneys General. In 1987, the state officials set stricter guidelines on mergers that made it easier to challenge large takeovers, and they have begun a more aggressive antitrust program, often challenging mergers that the F.T.C. or the Justice Department approved in the Reagan Administration.
 
Two Merger Challenges
Two such cases from last year involved separate mergers of California supermarket chains that would have left the companies controlling 50 percent of the grocery business in Southern California - the $2.5 billion merger of Lucky Stores with American Stores' Alpha-Beta chain and Vons' $408 million purchase of Safeway Stores' supermarkets in Southern California.
When the trade commission decided not to block the mergers, John Van de Kamp, the California Attorney General, challenged them, contending that the monopoly potential could cost consumers $400 million in higher prices. He settled the Vons case late last year, but the American Stores case is pending before the United States Supreme Court, which is likely to hear arguments early next year.
 
Any Change Supported
For many antitrust experts, any change that increases the number of cases the F.T.C. and Justice Department bring will be welcome. While Democratic and Republican Presidents had tended to support vigorous antitrust policies through the 1970's, much of the theory on antitrust changed under the Reagan Administration.
Guided by economic theories of unfettered markets developed at the University of Chicago, the Reagan antitrust officials saw little reason to stop even the largest merger that might concentrate market force with two or three companies, provided that the market could be easily entered by new participants.
This was opposed by many Democrats in Congress, who contended that lax antitrust policies only fueled the takeover craze of the 1980's, and the trade commission and the Justice Department were frequently criticized.
''You had the F.T.C. going after ophthalmologists in Boston and taxi drivers in St. Paul, instead of looking at the beer industry, a billion-dollar industry where there has been incredible concentration,'' said New York Attorney General Robert Abrams.
As such, the National Association of Attorneys General stepped in, bringing a flurry of cases, which in the end may have caused more difficulty for big business than had the Federal agencies under Reagan conducted a more vigorous effort. Daniel Oliver, the last Reagan F.T.C. chairman, noted that in many of the cases brought by the state officials, Federal courts have upheld the mergers, often citing the Chicago school's reasonings, and it might be hard for the Bush Administration to reverse the trend.
''Now you have hundreds of Federal judges that were appointed by Reagan sitting on the bench and worked with the Administration to bring merger policy to where it is today,'' said Mr. Oliver, who believes antitrust policy should not change. ''You are not going to see quick changes there.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Janet D. Steiger (NYT/George Tames) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ANTITRUST DIVISION (56%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FORECASTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; ADVERTISING; MISLEADING AND DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (96%); LAWYERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



49 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: Control Data, MIPS in Pact

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 1

 BODY:
MIPS Computer Systems Inc. and the Control Data Corporation said today that they had reached an agreement through which Control would resell computers made by MIPS.
The announcement, which follows a technology-sharing agreement disclosed two weeks ago, came in conjunction with MIPS's introduction of a new high-speed general purpose computer, the RC6280, which will sell for about $150,000. 
Control Data indicated that it would announce specific configurations and packaging of MIPS computers in early December. The company said that by the end of 1991, it expects to have sold more than $100 million of MIPS systems.
MIPS, which is based in Sunnyvale, Calif., produces computers and chips based on reduced instruction set computing, or RISC, a technology for speeding computing by reducing nonessential tasks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (91%); SGI (NASDAQ) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (94%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (91%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (91%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (59%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (59%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CERIDIAN CORP (94%); ARBITRON INC (91%); SILICON GRAPHICS INTERNATIONAL CORP (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIPS COMPUTER SYSTEMS INC; CONTROL DATA CORP

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); 



50 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Growth Still Modest, Fed Report Says

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
The nation's economic growth continued to vary from slow to moderate early this fall, the Federal Reserve said today in its latest economic survey, but it did not mention any inflationary problems.
''Consumer spending is mixed, with a number of districts describing retail sales as steady to growing slowly,'' the summary of the survey said. ''Manufacturing activity is also mixed, with some districts reporting weakness in orders and shipments. 
''Weakness of construction in some markets contrasts with evidence of some improvement elsewhere,'' the summary continued. ''Resource industries, including the energy sector, appear to be improving, as is agriculture generally.''
 
The 'Beige Book'
The survey by the Fed's 12 district banks, called the ''beige book'' or ''tan book,'' is compiled every six weeks to prepare for meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed body that sets monetary policy. The next meeting is on Nov. 14. Recent economic indicators show sluggish economic growth after the Fed tightened credit to ease inflationary pressures. As inflation appeared to abate this summer, the central bank eased its grip.
The latest survey was prepared at the Fed's bank in Kansas City, Mo., based on information obtained before Oct. 10.
Seven of the 12 districts mentioned prices. They were ''generally stable'' in Boston, while ''moving up, but at a slackening pace'' in Philadelphia.
Cleveland expects ''very little moderation in inflation'' through the end of the year, while Richmond reports a slower rise in input prices. Respondents in the Atlanta district ''reported only modest wage or price pressures.''
In the Kansas City district, ''retail prices and prices of manufacturers' inputs have changed little in recent months,'' the survey said, while ''wage and price increases remain modest'' in the San Francisco district.
 
Retail Sales Mixed
In the retail area, the survey said: ''Sales of apparel, basic housewares and other nondurables are described as relatively strong. Sales are weaker for discretionary, big-ticket items such as furniture, home appliances and consumer electronics.'' ''
Manufacturing activity was described as slowing in the Philadelphia, Chicago and Cleveland districts; varied in Richmond and St. Louis, and improving in Boston, Dallas and San Francisco.
The San Francisco district reported that most businesses in its area ''have resumed operations since the earthquake, but road closures and property damage are delaying a complete return to business as usual.'' The quake, which occurred on Oct. 17, has claimed 66 lives.
The Richmond district said that many of the usual South Carolina participants in its survey did not respond because of Hurricane Hugo, which struck on Sept. 21. But it said the hurricane had little effect on the industrial base of either of the Carolinas, although agriculture sectors were severely affected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (87%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (87%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC SURVEYS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); RETAILERS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); 



51 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Fall in Nation's Manufacturing Slows in October

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
The manufacturing sector of the nation's economy continued to decline for the sixth consecutive month in October, but at a lesser rate, according to an index published yesterday by the National Association of Purchasing Management.
Other indications of slowing economic growth came as the Commerce Department reported that orders for manufactured goods and construction spending were unchanged in September. And the Federal Reserve reported that the economy's growth was slow to moderate in the fall.
''These numbers mean that the economy is growing slowly, but they do not mean that we are headed for a recession at this point,'' said Maury N. Harris, chief economist at Paine Webber Inc. He said the lack of inflationary pressure would give the Federal Reserve the opportunity to stimulate the economy before a recession can develop. 
 
G.N.P. Growth Outlook
David M. Jones, director of research at Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, said: ''All the numbers we saw today reflect a pattern of slow to moderate growth. It looks like we will have real G.N.P. growth of 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter compared to 2.5 in the third. I do not see any recession at this time.''
The purchasing managers' index rose to 47.6 percent in October, up from 46 percent in September. A reading below 50 indicates that the manufacturing sector is slowing and one below 44 indicates a decline in real gross national product.
''The manufacturing economy entered the final quarter of 1989 with the sixth consecutive monthly decline,'' said Robert J. Bretz, chairman of the association's business survey committee. ''Continued declines in vendor deliveries and price indexes indicate that supply is considerably greater than demand. However, the sharp turnaround in new-orders growth, after four months of decline, hints of a possible continued easing in the overall future rate of decline in the manufacturing economy.''
 
New Orders Index Rises
The new-orders index rose to 51.4 percent in October, up from 45.4 percent in September and 45.1 percent in August. But some outside economists cautioned that seasonal factors might have unduly enhanced the October new-order figures.
Mr. Bretz noted that the managers' index had averaged 49.3 percent for the first 10 months of the year. ''Past experience indicates that if this average were to continue for the final two months, it would be consistent with real G.N.P. growth of about 1.7 percent for all of 1989, unchanged from last month,'' he said.
The association reported that prices fell for the fifth consecutive month, and at a faster rate than in September. The price index fell to 41.9 percent, from 43.1 percent the previous month, to stand at the lowest level since December 1982 when it was at 31.9 percent.
Deliveries were faster in October for the sixth straight month, with the delivery index standing at 42.7 percent, the lowest level since May 1982.
Analysts said the price index decline and the faster pace of deliveries indicated that there is little danger of inflation, which was also not mentioned as a problem in yesterday's Federal Reserve report.
''There's not much indication of inflationary pressure, which gives the Fed leeway to react,'' Mr. Harris said.
Mr. Jones said he felt the agency would be cautious in an effort to keep inflation low and to discourage speculative takeovers, but agreed that its freedom to act had been enhanced.
Production and inventories declined in October, both at a rate slightly greater than September. The production index stood at 48.4 percent, down from 48.5 percent. The association's report said Hurricane Hugo appeared to have reduced output in the apparel and textile industries.
The inventory index declined to 44.7 percent from 45.1 percent. Purchasers reported that they were working to bring their inventory levels down to match lower production rates.
Employment was down in October for the ninth consecutive month, with the index dipping to 45.8 percent from 45.9 percent.
Purchasers reported that lead time for the delivery of production material remains virtually unchanged in October from the rates of the previous two months, indicating the ready availability of most materials. Managers reporting delivery times of 30 days or less increased to 55 percent from 54 percent in September and August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (69%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); INFLATION (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN



52 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Orders to U.S. Factories Hold Steady

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Orders to the nation's factories for manufactured goods remained steady in September, but would have fallen had it not been for the second-largest increase in military orders in history.
Analysts viewed the Commerce Department report, released today, as another sign of weakness in the manufacturing sector, which will result in continued sluggishness in the overall economy in the months ahead.
The Commerce Department said orders for both durable and nondurable manufactured goods totaled a seasonally adjusted $236.7 billion in September. That included a 59.6 percent gain in military orders, to $12.7 billion, the largest advance in that category since a record 68.3 percent rise in June 1988. 
Without the military factor, orders actually declined 2.1 percent, the department said.
''It continues to show sluggishness in the manufacturing sector,'' David Berson, an economist of the Federal National Mortgage Association, said of the report. ''I think we'll see it pretty flat for a while.''
The report said orders for nonmilitary capital goods had decreased for the second month in a row. Those orders, a measure of business investment plans, were off 5.2 percent after dropping 10.4 percent in August.
The economy, especially the manufacturing and housing sectors, has been struggling to deal with high interest rates as the Federal Reserve tightened credit to slow inflation.
 
First Decline Since '87
Factory inventories posted their first decline since February 1987, dropping one-tenth of 1 percent, to $371.2 billion. If inventories increase without a corresponding gain in new orders, it could indicate production cutbacks in the future as factories try to get rid of goods on shelves and backlots.
Shipments of manufactured goods fell 1.6 percent, to $234.4 billion. Orders for durable goods, which are high-cost items expected to last more than three years, rose two-tenths of 1 percent, to $127 billion, raised by a 7.2 percent increase in electrical machinery, to $20.8 billion.
Primary metals orders were up nine-tenths of 1 percent, to $11.4 billion. But nonelectrical machinery orders, including computers, were off seven-tenths of 1 percent, to $22.5 billion.
Transportation equipment orders, on the other hand, fell 4.7 percent, to $34.8 billion, as declines in autos and nonmilitary aircraft more than offset gains in military aircraft orders. Without the drop in transportation, total orders would have risen eight-tenths of 1 percent.
Orders for nondurable goods were down three-tenths of 1 percent to $109.7 billion, led by a decline in food products.

GRAPHIC: graph of factory orders from 4/88 to 9/89 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (79%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); NEW ORDERS (79%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SHIPMENTS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%); 



53 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Construction Spending Unchanged in September

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1

 BODY:
Construction spending was unchanged in September after surging in August, reflecting continued weakness in that segment of the economy.
The Commerce Department said today that residential, nonresidential and government construction spending totaled a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $415.6 billion in September. In August, construction spending jumped 1.5 percent, after declines of 1.8 percent in July and eight-tenths of 1 percent in June. 
Spending rose in August because of a strong 5.3 percent increase in government building and a 2.9 percent gain in nonresidential construction. But David Berson, an economist at the Federal National Mortgage Association, said that pace of spending could not be sustained because of government budget problems and a glut of vacant office buildings.
The construction industry has been among the sectors of the economy hardest hit by the Federal Reserve's campaign to keep inflation in check. But the Fed has been easing its grip on the economy, and analysts have been looking for a slight pickup in construction spending as interest rates fall.
 
Mortgage Rates Decline
The interest rate on fixed-rate mortgages declined from a peak of 11.22 percent in March to 10.16 percent at the end of September, according to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
Private construction was off 1.2 percent last month to an annual rate of $327.6 billion, reflecting declines in both residential and nonresidential building.
Residential building, which accounts for nearly half of construction spending, fell nine-tenths of 1 percent, to a $191.9 billion rate. That included a drop of 1.1 percent in single-family construction, to $111.5 billion, and a 2.2 percent decline in apartment building, to $22.7 billion.
Nonresidential construction, including factories and office buildings, fell 2.6 percent, to $99.1 billion at an annual rate. This category represents about 20 percent of construction spending.
The volatile government projects category, representing another 20 percent of construction spending, was up 4.3 percent, to $88 billion.
The total construction spending figure for the first nine months was up 1 percent from the comparable period of 1988.

GRAPHIC: graph of construction spending from 4/88 to 9/89 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (82%); FNM (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (71%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) CONSTRUCTION (96%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); 



54 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Continued Growth Is Seen

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31

 BODY:
The economy, which is about to enter its eighth year of expansion, is likely to continue growing at least until 1991, a poll of leading business executives has found.
Of 53 chief executives who were asked last week for estimates of when a recession might start, 61 percent said they thought one would start in 1991 or later, 29 percent estimated the second half of next year and 10 percent feared a downturn in the first half of 1990, the National Association of Manufacturers said. 
Despite the rosy outlook, the trade group's president and chief economist, Jerry Jasinowski, said the economy needed lower interest rates to help stem the dollar's rise. A higher dollar makes United States exports less competitive abroad.
He also said that the Federal Reserve's goal of eliminating inflation within five years is unrealistic. He added that if the goal was pursued too ruthlessly the economy, now in the second-longest period of expansion since World War II, could be thrown into a recession.
The association's survey found that despite the dollar's rise earlier this year, 56 percent of the manufacturers polled expect their foreign sales in 1990 to be about the same as they were this year, with 42 percent planning for an increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS EXECUTIVES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTEREST RATES (54%); WORLD WAR II (52%); 



55 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Dow Rises 0.82, to End Session at 2,645.90

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Stocks ended mixed yesterday on moderate volume, failing to build on the strong rally of the previous session.
The Dow Jones industrial average edged up 0.82 points, to 2,645.90, after trading in a narrow range for the entire session. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange contracted to 154.2 million shares, from 176.1 million on Tuesday, when the Dow gained 41.60 points. 
The broader market fared better yesterday with the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks gaining 0.84, to 341.20. The New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 0.60, to 188.84. Advancing issues on the Big Board outnumbered declining ones, 847 to 644.
 
Indications of Economic Growth
Several economic reports released yesterday signaled that the nation's economy continues to grow at a slow rate. But on the encouraging side, many analysts said the new data increase the likelihood that the Federal Reserve will push interest rates lower.
The Commerce Department reported that orders for manufactured goods and construction spending were flat in September. And the latest survey by the National Association of Purchasing Managers showed that the manufacturing sector weakened in October for a sixth straight month, although at a lower rate.
Some analysts said the state of the economy was still unclear to market participants, many of whom are awaiting tomorrow's reports on October unemployment and late-October automobile sales.
''Small investors and traders apparently are utterly confused,'' said Kenneth S. Hackle, president of Systematic Financial Management in Fort Lee, N.J. ''On the one hand, they feel the economy may have topped out, which would normally signal a weak equity market, but on the other hand, interest rates are in check and stocks represent a good value on a longer-term basis, which was manifest by Tuesday's Great Northern Nekoosa merger offer.''
Great Northern Nekoosa was the most active stock yesterday, falling 1 3/8, to 61 1/2, on a volume of 5.1 million shares.
 
Georgia Pacific Off 1/2
Georgia-Pacific, which has made a $3.19 billion takeover offer for Nekoosa, said it is considering selling certain Nekoosa assets not essential to its forest-products operations if the bid succeeds. Georgia-Pacific dropped 1/2, to 50 3/8.
Mr. Hackle noted that the automobile and technology sectors were weak. In the auto group, Ford slipped 1/4, to 47 1/8; Chrysler fell 1/8, to 21 1/4; but G.M. gained 5/8, to 45. In the technology area, I.B.M. dipped 1/4, to 100; Digital Equipment was off 3/4, to 92 3/4; Motorola slipped 1/4, to 55 5/8, and Control Data was also off 1/4, to 18.
The AMR Corporation, parent of American Airlines, rose 1 3/4, to 73 1/8, on rumors that Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. had placed AMR stock on its restricted list and that the real estate developer Donald J. Trump might have a renewed interest in taking over the airline.
Texaco was the second most active issue, rising 3/4, to 53 3/8, on a volume of 4.4 million shares.

GRAPHIC: favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (60%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (52%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (52%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); MERGERS (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H



56 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 18, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
Top Yield of 7.45% In California Issue

 BODY:
The Santa Ana Community Redevelopment Agency, California, is offering $107.03 million in tax allocation bonds with a maximum yield of 7.458 percent for an issue due 2019 through underwriters led by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation. 
Serial bonds with shorter maturities are priced to yield from 6.40 percent in 1991 to 7.15 percent in 1999. For longer maturities, investors are also offered a yield of 7.422 percent for an issue due 2009. Underwriters said the financing is rated A by Standard & Poor's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SANTA ANA, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SANA ANA (CALIF)

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (85%); 



57 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2272 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Profile;
Warily, Giuliani Learns To Embrace the Voters

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

 BODY:
A white-haired woman put on a scratchy recording of ''New York, New York'' at a Brooklyn community center the other day and claimed the first dance with Rudolph W. Giuliani, gently nudging another woman aside.
Mr. Giuliani's aides were beaming as the Republican-Liberal mayoral candidate did a couple of spins with the woman, a television news crew following every step.
It was the kind of image that the campaign has been trying to convey for months with mixed results.
Mr. Giuliani and his aides have had no trouble portraying him as a hard-nosed, law-and-order former Federal prosecutor whose battle cry is crime, crime, crime. But presenting him as a warm, compassionate man has been a harder task. 
 
Thumbs-Up Sign
For months Mr. Giuliani, who is 45 years old, came across as an arm's-length candidate, shaking hands stiffly and rarely shedding his suit jacket.
It was his first bid for elective office, and he was basing it largely on the reputation he built in five and a half years as United States Attorney in Manhattan, as a crime fighter who captured crooks and headlines. The image gave his campaign its initial momentum, but it did nothing to soften the public's perception of him.
Over the last few weeks, however, he has seemed more relaxed, becoming more generous with his smile. He has been flashing an occasional thumbs-up sign and increasingly taking off his coat.
His campaign aides say he is shy, not cold. He can be a real cutup at parties, they say. He has been known to sit around with friends and exchange dialogue from ''The Godfather,'' the bloody gangster epic he confesses to have seen six or seven times. Asked to quote a line from the movie, Mr. Giuliani said: ''Keep the cannoli. Drop the gun.''
But his favorite movie is ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' the Christmas classic about small-town virtues. He has seen the film at least 30 times.
 
Jeans and a Movie
To escape the pressures of the campaign in September, Mr. Giuliani and his wife, Donna Hanover, a television news anchor at WPIX, put on their jeans and slipped away to see ''When Harry Met Sally.''
''First, we had hot dogs at Nathan's,'' said Ms. Hanover, who is on maternity leave from her job. ''It was a wonderful date. Just like the old days.''
''I really enjoy movies,'' Mr. Giuliani said in a separate interview. ''One of the things we've been deprived of during the campaign is the opportunity to see many movies.''
Mr. Giuliani mixed business with pleasure when he and a campaign aide attended a late-night showing of ''Do the Right Thing,'' Spike Lee's film about racial tension and misunderstanding.
He said he was drawn to the film by news articles suggesting that the movie's portrayal of New York as a racially tense city could become a campaign issue.
''It did what a work of art is supposed to do,'' he said. ''It expanded your thinking. You leave it saying you can have two people look at the same world and see a different world.''
Mr. Giuliani's spare time is spent with his family. During the campaign he has had to manufacture spare time. He has often taken his son, Andrew, 3 1/2, to campaign events.
A few days before the primary in September, his three-car caravan was rushing along a Brooklyn highway when his car pulled off the road so Andrew could play in a park.
Mr. Giuliani was late for his next event.
Last Sunday, Mr. Giuliani had responded to press questions with an edge in his voice, sharp as a knife.
Minutes later, Mr. Giuliani's voice turned soft and sweet as he lifted Andrew, who was tired and crying, onto his lap and rocked him to sleep.
''You'll feel better,'' Mr. Giuliani crooned, stroking the boy's blond hair, ''as soon as you take a nap.'' A Taste for Opera, Sports and Raisin Bran Mr. Giuliani said he likes to read biographies. Of particular interest, he said, was ''The Power Broker,'' Robert A. Caro's work about Robert Moses, the urban planner.
He is also an opera fan. He has 150 opera recordings, and Verdi is one of his favorite composers. Opera, he said, ''gives you a wonderful feeling, a real sense of having captured the universe.''
He also loves to watch the football Giants on Sunday afternoons, although his wife said she was the bigger fan.
''I'm the one who says 'The football game is about to start,' '' she said. ''I'm the one sitting in front of the television first.''
To relax, Mr. Giuliani sometimes drives his Cadillac Seville through the Hudson Valley, classical music filling the car.
But in crisscrossing the city during the campaign he has had to abandon many of these pastimes.
Typically, he is too busy making a speech or shaking hands to have much time to eat. So at the end of a long day of campaigning, often around midnight, Mr. Giuliani has a heaping bowl of raisin bran and a Klondike ice cream bar.
''Everybody seems to think Rudy takes himself so seriously,'' Ms. Hanover said. ''He doesn't. He takes his integrity seriously. Rudy doesn't tell jokes, but he's very funny. He can see the humor in everyday situations. He has a bemused way of looking at the world.''
In his campaign commercials, Mr. Giuliani paints himself as a take-charge guy. The image is not purely pre-Election Day hype. When it came to courting Ms. Hanover, his second wife, Mr. Giuliani was a whirlwind.
''I fell pretty much immediately in love with Donna,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''It took her a little longer, a few weeks, I think.''
Six weeks after meeting her on a blind date in Miami in 1982, Mr. Giuliani proposed marriage at Disney World. They were married in 1984 and in addition to Andrew, they have a baby daughter, Caroline. His first marriage, to a second cousin, ended in divorce after 14 years. Mr. Giuliani had the marriage annulled so he could remarry in the Roman Catholic church.
He may be a political novice, but Mr. Giuliani has had plenty of experience in front of news cameras; his largest triumphs as United States Attorney were announced at well-attended news conferences.
A graduate of New York University Law School, Mr. Giuliani has held high posts in the Justice Department in both the Ford and Reagan Administrations.
As a high-ranking department official, he was the main defender of its policy of detaining illegal Haitian immigrants. The administration maintained that the Haitians were not political refugees, as they contended, but that they had come to the United States only to better themselves economically. Human rights groups criticized the detention camps, saying many internees were political refugees, fleeing a repressive dictatorship.
In another controversial Justice Department matter, Mr. Giuliani settled a criminal case that involved bribery charges against executives of the McDonnell Douglas Corporation and that had been inherited from the Carter Administration. Mr. Giuliani dropped the charges, calling them unfair.
In 1983, he was appointed the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York.
His office prosecuted important tax cases, including one against an international commodities broker, Marc Rich. It was said to be the largest tax case ever.
He also went after corrupt public officials. Two prominent Bronx Democrats, former Representative Mario Biaggi and former Borough President Stanley M. Friedman, were convicted in a bribery scheme.
Typically, Mr. Giuliani announced indictments to packed news conferences and irritated some other law-enforcement officials who said he was showing off for the cameras.
The camera also captured several setbacks that the aggressive Federal prosecutor suffered during his tenure. The divorce-fixing prosecution of Bess Myerson for supposedly trying to influence a State Supreme Court Justice ended in an acquittal. Not long after that, a Federal judge ruled that the Government had failed to prove Mr. Giuliani's charge that the Genovese crime family controlled the main union at the Fulton Fish Market He resigned last January and soon joined the law firm of White and Case. Then last spring, he announced he was running for mayor. He is on an unpaid leave of absence from the law firm, which paid him $260,000 for four months' work.
Mr. Giuliani is the Republican Party's best hope of capturing City Hall in more than 20 years. An East Sider In Discount Suits Until he went to work for White and Case, Mr. Giuliani earned less than $80,000 a year during most of his tenure as United States Attorney.
He has not bought a new suit in more than a year. When he does buy suits it is at BFO, a discount store. They are often either gray or dark blue. His ties are typically red.
''He's not a vain person at all,'' Ms. Hanover said. ''His clothes are functional. He's forever getting some kind of sauce on his red ties. But it's only the red ties. We haven't figured out why.''
The Giulianis live in a two-bedroom cooperative apartment on East 86th Street, a short walk from Gracie Mansion, the mayor's official residence.
Mr. Giuliani's 80-year-old mother lives next door, in an apartment he purchased. Mr. Giuliani said he had hoped to knock down a wall between the two apartments but the campaign delayed his plans.
Until the campaign, his taste in food was ''pretty basic:'' steak hamburgers prepared medium rare, raisin bran, Klondike bars and ''all kinds of pasta.''
While campaigning, especially during the summer for the Republican primary, Mr. Giuliani sometimes attended a half-dozen ethnic festivals in a day.
''I would end up eating four or five different kinds of food,'' he said. ''I really enjoyed it.'' A Lifelong Love Found in a Record Bin Mr. Giuliani has been in love with opera since he was 12 or 13 years old. One day he was searching the record bins of a department store on Long Island for a few rock-and-roll 45's. As he was leaving he noticed a sale bin.
The first thing he saw was a recording of ''Julius Caesar,'' by Handel. Mr. Giuliani was enrolled in a classical music class at school, so he decided to buy the recording but did not think he would like it much. The price was right, though, 99 cents.
He put the record on the stereo and ''almost immediately'' he was hooked. He eventually gave away several boxes of rock-and-roll records and replaced them with operas and classical music.
He still has that first 99-cent record.
''Rudy knows in-depth the story lines of all the operas,'' Ms. Hanover said. ''My reservation about opera is they always have a sad ending.''
There is one popular musician he does enjoy. For the last few years, the Giulianis have celebrated the New Year, dancing alone in their living room to the recorded voice of Frank Sinatra, perhaps after attending a small dinner party near their home.
As they glide by the Christmas tree, ''New York, New York,'' ''Strangers in the Night'' and ''I Did it My Way'' float through the room.
As a teen-ager and young man, Mr. Giuliani greatly admired John F. and Robert F. Kennedy. He worked for the Democratic Party on Long Island, where his family moved from Brooklyn when he was 7, and was a registered Democrat for years.
One of his oldest friends, Peter J. Powers, who is now Mr. Giuliani's campaign manager, said the young Giuliani was a passionate Democrat. The men first met at Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School, an all-boys Catholic school in Brooklyn.
They also attended Manhattan College in the Bronx and law school at New York University together. After law school, during the Vietnam War, Mr. Giuliani went on to become a clerk for a Federal judge and received a military deferment.
''We always talked about politics,'' Mr. Powers said. ''He was a liberal Democrat, and I was a conservative Republican. Man, would we fight. People used to pass us and ask, 'How can you guys be friends after you argue like that?' ''
''It was never personal,'' he added. ''We just had a difference of opinion. I'm a little bit more moderate. We both moved a little bit. We're a lot closer now than we were then. I guess we had an influence on each other.''
Mr. Giuliani was enrolled as a Democrat until 1973, when he became an independent partly out of disappointment with the direction of the party under George S. McGovern the year before. He joined the Republican Party in 1980. At the Age of 3, A Lesson About Life Mr. Giuliani has a bit of a temper. As United States Attorney, he was known to be a demanding boss who was not relucant about showing his displeasure.
''If somebody makes a mistake, it never gets me angry,'' he said. ''It only gets me angry if it's a purposeful mistake, meaning somebody who could have done better and didn't or keeps making the same mistake over and over again.''
''I get angry at myself,'' Mr. Giuliani sighed, ''particularly the second time. I try to demand good performance out of myself, although not perfection. I know you make mistakes''
Rudolph William Giuliani was born in 1944 in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn, the only child of Helen and Harold Giuliani, who owned a bar in the neighborhood.
When Mr. Giuliani was about 3 years old, his father, a dedicated Yankees fan, bought his son a Yankees uniform and cap. Mr. Giuliani's mother dressed him in the uniform and sent him out to play in Flatbush. He was pounced on by a group of boys almost immediately. They were Dodger fans.
''They took the hat and threw it in the mud,'' Mr. Giuliani recalled. ''They threw me in the mud, too, and probably whacked me around a little bit. I ran upstairs and either my mother or father said, 'Well, now you're going to be a Yankee fan.' ''
''So,'' he continued, ''I kept wearing that Yankee uniform, and I kept getting thrown in the mud.''
He is still a Yankee fan.

GRAPHIC: photos of Rudolph W. Giuliani (NYT/Ruby Washington) (pgs. A1 & B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK-NEW YORK HOTEL & CASINO LLC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); MATERNITY LEAVE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LAWYERS (74%); CHRISTMAS (64%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W RUDY GIULIANI (93%); 



58 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: To Woo Soviet Jews to Israel, A $2 Billion Drive Is Mounted

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Nov. 2

 BODY:
The Jewish Agency announced a campaign today to raise $2 billion by 1993 to help attract Soviet Jews to Israel and absorb them into society with new housing, education and job training programs.
Much of the money is expected to come from the United States. But agency officials sidestepped questions on whether any of the new housing would be built in the occupied West Bank. 
Representatives of the agency's board of trustees said the Israeli Government would supply $1.5 billion of the total aid, though the Government is expected to appeal to the United States Government for assistance with its portion of the budget. The $500 million remaining is to be solicited from American Jews through special fund-raising campaigns.
The Jewish Agency is a large, quasi-government organization that serves as a liaison between Israel and the rest of the world's Jews. Agency officials, like others in the Government, expect 100,000 Soviet Jews to come to Israel in the next three years.
 
U.S. Is Still Favored
Immigration figures reached an all-time high in October, when 1,400 Soviet Jews moved to Israel. But they were among more than 9,000 Jews who left the Soviet Union, most of whom immigrated to the United States.
Soviet Jews are expected to continue favoring the United States over Israel, which they perceive as beset with economic and political problems. But Israeli officials, including Finance Minister Shimon Peres, believe that a surge in the construction industry tied to building new homes for Soviet Jews will help revive a lagging economy.
Agency officials said they would spend $1 billion to build 25,000 new housing units and refurbish 5,000 existing homes for Soviet Jews in the next three years. They said some of that is expected to come from United States foreign aid for housing.
A recent call by Housing Minister David Levy to build for Soviet Jews in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip was censured by American officials and Israeli leftists. The United States stipulates that foreign aid to Israel not be used in the occupied territories.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); ISRAEL, STATE OF

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; JEWS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS JEWS & JUDAISM (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); REFUGEES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); TRENDS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (58%); 



59 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Soviets Faulted on Regional Conflicts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
A senior Defense Department official complained today that the Soviet Union was continuing to fuel regional conflicts, offering a more pointed critique of Soviet conduct than Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d has in recent speeches.
Today's speech by Paul Wolfowitz, Under Secretary of Defense for policy, came two days after President Bush announced he would meet next month with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, and seemed to continue a public debate among senior Administration officials over Soviet policy.
In the weeks immediately preceding previous summit meetings, American officials have often muted their differences and tried to present a unified front. But the speech by Mr. Wolfowitz was markedly different in tone and emphasis from Mr. Baker's remarks, although the Administration said that the Wolfowitz text had been reviewed and was generally consistent with its views. 
''Amidst all of the 'new thinking' in the Soviet Union, there's a lot of 'old policy' on regional conflicts,'' Mr. Wolfowitz said at a conference in Pittsburgh sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh and the Chautauqua Institution. The conferences, which began in 1985 and include ranking American and Soviet officials, have become a barometer of American-Soviet relations.
''The Soviet Union and its allies continue to supply large amounts of sophisticated military equipment to countries like North Korea, Nicaragua and Libya, which threaten their neighbors and support international terrorism,'' he added.
 
An Accusatory Tone
The basic theme of Mr. Wolfowitz's address - that unless the superpowers made progress in defusing regional conflicts, recent gains in Soviet-American relations would be jeopardized -was consistent with points made by Mr. Baker and other Administration officials.
But the emphasis and tone of the speech was more accusatory, reflecting the Pentagon's continuing efforts to depict Moscow as a source of potential trouble. Similar expressions of skepticism about Soviet intentions have been expressed by Vice President Dan Quayle, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger and the deputy national security adviser, Robert M. Gates.
Just last week Administration officials said that Mr. Baker prevented Mr. Gates from delivering a speech because it was deemed to be too pessimistic about Mr. Gorbachev.
The speech by Mr. Wolfowitz stirred special interest because it was the first policy pronouncement by a senior Administration official since the announcement of the December summit meeting. The speech itself fits a pattern in which the State Department, notably Mr. Baker, has generally underscored opportunities for achieving mutually advantageous agreements with the Russians, while the Defense Department raises doubts about Moscow's current policies.
The more wary Pentagon assessment appears to reflect greater suspicion of Mr. Gorbachev as well as concern about evaporating support in the Congress for military spending.
In discussing regional conflicts, Mr. Wolfowitz said that the superpowers' rivalry was not the main cause of regional conflicts, an important distinction from the early Reagan Administration years when President Ronald Reagan blamed Moscow for most of the trouble in the world.
 
Economic Development Cited
''To dampen regional conflict, we must ultimately deal with their causes, most importantly through efforts to promote economic and political development,'' Mr. Wolfowitz said.
But drawing an analogy with the worsening of American-Soviet relations in the 1970's as a result of regional disputes, Mr. Wolfowitz cautioned that the current improvement in relations could be ''again buried in the quicksand of regional conflicts'' unless the superpowers acted to prevent this.
While praising the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan among other developments, Mr. Wolfowitz complained in strong terms about Soviet military aid to Afghanistan, Soviet-bloc aid to Nicaragua and Moscow's sale of arms to North Korea.
''Does the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and other countries reflect a recognition that the peoples of these countries are entitled to Governments of their own choosing?'' Mr. Wolfowitz asked. ''Or does it simply reflect a decision to pursue the same ends by different, less costly, and less controversial means? Unfortunately, today the weight of evidence still appears to support the latter conclusion.''
Secretary Baker also criticized Moscow for shipping arms to Afghanistan, Ethiopia and Cambodia in his Oct. 16 address in New York. But the tone of the complaints was more muted.
Surveying world trouble spots, Mr. Wolfowitz said that Moscow was sending more than $250 million in military aid a month to the Afghan Government.
Mr. Wolfowitz also complained that Moscow had recently shipped advanced fighter planes, surface to air missiles and radars to North Korea.
''There are disturbing signs that North Korea may be in the process of developing a nuclear weapons capability, raising even more questions about the purpose of Soviet military support to this irresponsible Government,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHAUTAUQUA INSTITUTION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: WOLFOWITZ, PAUL D; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); GORDON, MICHAEL R DICK CHENEY (58%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



60 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Ortega's War

 BODY:
Whatever Daniel Ortega's intention, the Nicaraguan President's renunciation of a cease-fire with contra rebels has confounded hopes for free elections and an end to his nation's interminable war. He has left room for retreat, and could yet reverse himself. For now, the Sandinista leader needs to reckon the costs of throwing a grenade into a promising, arduously wrought regional peace plan. 
Dooming the cease-fire won't revive a majority in Washington for a failed and divisive policy of military aid to contras. Mr. Ortega knows that. But if Managua dishonors its pledges for a credible election on Feb. 25, the reaction will be strong and just: Nicaragua's neighbors will further isolate the Sandinista Government. European credits, so critical to Nicaragua's battered economy, will dry up. And Washington will press Moscow very hard not only to cut back its support for the Sandinistas but also to lean on Soviet allies to do the same.
To the world and his own people, Mr. Ortega argues that he is merely responding to contra violations of the cease-fire. Indeed, there have been cease-fire violations and killings, but by both sides. The contras have balked at disbanding their camps in Honduras, as required by the regional peace plan, but the Sandinistas have also balked at direct talks with rebels on truce violations.
Mr. Ortega had a chance to make his case, soberly and on the merits, at a regional summit meeting in Costa Rica last week. He could have tried to mobilize diplomatic pressure to overcome Washington's foot-dragging on demobilizing the contras, and U.S. indifference to rebel reinfiltration into Nicaragua. Instead, he redeclared war and raised serious doubts about whether he's ready to risk free and fair elections.
It is not a waning insurgency that appears to be Mr. Ortega's real target, but a swelling United Opposition Union. This is evident in police harassment of opposition rallies, and in Mr. Ortega's efforts to tar the union as a contra front ''manufactured, bought and paid by the United States.'' The rebuke rings hollow from a regime whose huge army is equipped by the Soviet Union and Cuba.
The White House rightly describes Mr. Ortega's decision as an ''affront.'' It affronts first of all Central American leaders who hammered together a peace plan with no help from the Reagan Administration. It affronts Europeans like Felipe Gonzalez of Spain, who pleaded for a democratic outcome in Nicaragua. It also embarrasses Mikhail Gorbachev, who has encouraged riskier democratic experiments in Eastern Europe.
And finally, it undermines Secretary of State Baker, who in March brokered a bipartisan compromise for phasing out all U.S. aid to the rebels in return for Managua's commitment to free elections. Mr. Ortega has reason to think again before he deepens Nicaragua's isolation and further impoverishes his people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); HONDURAS (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; MILITARY ACTION; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS PEACE PROCESS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); 

PERSON: ORTEGA SAAVEDRA, DANIEL (PRES)



61 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Japan Buys the Center of New York

 BODY:
Japan's Sony Corporation bought Columbia Pictures last month. Now Mitsubishi is paying $846 million for 51 percent of the Rockefeller Group, owner of Rockefeller Center, the vibrant Art Deco cluster of 19 buildings in the heart of New York City. Is the transfer of American assets to Japanese ownership something to worry about? 
In an immediate and practical sense, the answer is no. Foreign investment is a mark of confidence in the U.S. economy. British and Dutch investors have accumulated large American holdings without causing great anxiety. It would be xenophobic, even racist, to single out Japan because of the size of its American holdings, which, though growing fast, are still half the size of Britain's.
It's also hard to object to specific sales like that of Rockefeller Center. Its owner is happy to have found a buyer. And the sale will bolster New York's commercial real estate market.
So why worry? Even if the concern is mainly over symbols, many people are puzzled that the centerpiece of America's most renowned metropolis is about to pass into foreign ownership. The leading American corporations that have offices in Rockefeller Center - NBC, Time Warner and Morgan Stanley - will now have a Japanese landlord. What's happened? Japan's trade surpluses with the United States have persisted at about $50 billion a year. These dollars eventually come back to America, and one form in which they have done so has been a wave of Japanese investment in real estate. Japanese companies already own 30 percent of downtown Los Angeles and much of Honolulu.
The sale of Rockefeller Center is not exceptional in itself. But as a conspicuous symbol of Japanese investment, it is a sharp reminder of Japan's growing economic strength. The purchase of some of America's best-known assets by its leading economic competitor is thus a double medicine. It's beneficial both as an investment - and as a warning of the greater efficiency of Japan's economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: SON (LSE) (91%); SNE (NYSE) (91%); 6758 (TSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); NETHERLANDS (77%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKEFELLER GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ROCKEFELLER CENTER (NYC); JAPAN

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; EDITORIALS REAL ESTATE (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (51%); 



62 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: What the Mayoral Candidates Aren't Saying

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Both David N. Dinkins and Rudolph W. Giuliani have deceived the public by not discussing in depth the view held by many economists and business people that New York City faces long-term economic problems far more serious than those of 1975.
It is evident that there is a diminishing number of middle-class people in all but one borough, Staten Island. It is also clear that the city will continue to lose revenue from public and private taxpayers as it tries to cope with homelessness, drugs, inferior education, insufficient housing and other problems that require far more money than the city can provide, even with state and Federal revenues. 
New York City is not alone in this situation, which is faced by almost every other older, large American city. Why aren't the mayoral candidates discussing it? Where will Mr. Dinkins get the billions needed to fight crime and drugs, hold business in a city with the highest expenses in the country, improve an education system that has been handing diplomas to semiliterates for more than a decade and restore the people's confidence? Mr. Dinkins talks about sending ''educational SWAT teams'' into failing high schools, but what they are is anyone's guess.
Nor has Mr. Giuliani spent campaign time making voters aware of the seriousness of our economic picture. It's long past time that these politicians spoke the 1989 equivalent of Winston Churchill's ''I have nothing to offer but blood, sweat, toil and tears.'' Churchill raised his countrymen's spirit in 1940, but was truthful about the effort involved to bring victory.
In contrast, Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Dinkins offer the people only platitudes. They have done and said nothing to make me believe they are capable of guiding this city toward the next century.
 
STEPHEN WAGNER
 Staten Island, Oct. 21, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MAYORS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); 

PERSON: WAGNER, STEPHEN; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 



63 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
Drama in Virginia

BYLINE: By Tom Wicker

DATELINE: WILLIAMSBURG, Va.

 BODY:
He's a moderate Democrat believed to be running ahead of a conservative Republican opponent who has relied heavily on ''negative'' advertising.
He boasts far more experience in elective office than his adversary and he has been aided by his pro-choice stand on the emotional abortion issue.
He would be the first African-American to hold the major post he seeks, but he has neither made nor suffered overt racial appeals.
Like David Dinkins, the Democratic candidate for mayor of New York, moreover, if L. Douglas Wilder is elected governor of Virginia it will be mostly because he is not a black radical but a middle-of-the-road politician whose views are more conventional than alarming. 
Not that Mr. Wilder can't turn on the voters when the spirit moves him. Following his white Republican opponent, J. Marshall Coleman, to the podium of the state N.A.A.C.P. convention here recently, Mr. Wilder deftly seized a natural advantage.
''I remember the fight to make [Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday] a holiday,'' he declared, his voice rising. ''I remember who signed that bill and I remember who vetoed it. I remember whose Administration vetoed it!''
Thunderous applause signaled that his audience remembered too: Democratic Governor, now Senator, Charles Robb signed a King holiday bill after Republican Governor John Dalton had vetoed an earlier one with the concurrence of his Attorney General - J. Marshall Coleman.
Mr. Wilder also won a standing ovation for his apt phrasing of the abortion issue to garner the broadest support:
''Government has no right to interfere in the most personal decisions its citizens make. Virginians want a governor they can trust and a governor who will trust them . . . and I trust the women of Virginia to make the right decisions for themselves.''
To the Women's Political Caucus of Norfolk, Mr. Wilder made mocking reference to the racial undercurrent - how strong it is no one claims to know - that many believe will affect the voting in a state that once was a stronghold of segregation.
''People come up to me and say, 'Let's get serious. Is Virginia really going to do this thing?' ''
To which, he said, he liked to reply with a story about ''a little old lady'' who did not quite hear a question about her support for him when he ran for lieutenant governor in 1985.
''Only a heartbeat what?'' she asked.
When it was explained that he would be ''only a heartbeat'' from the governor's office, she replied: ''That's one reason I'll vote for him.''
For the most part, Mr. Wilder is stressing his 20 years of experience as a State Senator and Lieutenant Governor. Meeting with editors and reporters of The Lynchburg News and Daily Advocate (under a bust of Carter Glass, once a conservative Democratic power in the U.S. Senate), Mr. Wilder roamed knowledgeably for 90 minutes over a variety of questions about Virginia's prospects and problems - including such local matters as a hotly disputed highway bypass around Charlottesville that would speed trucking access to Lynchburg.
Mr. Wilder regularly promises to continue the resurgence of the Virginia economy, which he attributes to Democratic Governors Robb and Gerald Baliles. In per capita income, he points out at every stop, the state has risen since 1980 from 26th in the nation to ninth, and ranks first in ''per capita job creation'' - creating 300,000 new jobs between 1986 and 1987, with the unemployment rate now at only 3 percent.
It was ostensibly these economic gains to which he referred, but racial reference seemed unmistakable when he pledged to the N.A.A.C.P.: ''I am committed to building upon Virginia's historic gains.'' And one of his most frequently repeated themes -potent racially as well as economically - is that ''this election comes down to one simple fact: in the last eight years, the people of Virginia have come too far to want to turn back now!''
Undoubtedly they have economically, and maybe they have racially. As the last campaign week began, a Washington Post poll gave Mr. Wilder a lead of 52 to 37. Some Virginians think that's overoptimistic, but the chances are good that Doug Wilder was speaking of more than the elderly when he said at the Beth Sholem Home in Norfolk, ''I've been there for you and I know on Nov. 7 you'll be there for me.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIRGINIA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; BLACKS (IN US); GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ABORTION (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); LAWYERS (72%); MAYORS (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); WOMEN (68%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM; WILDER, L DOUGLAS (LT GOV) LAWRENCE DOUGLAS 'DOUGLAS' WILDER (92%); DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (57%); CHARLES S ROBB (54%); 



64 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Housing Plan Dominates Yonkers Race

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: YONKERS, Nov. 2

 BODY:
One year after Yonkers was almost bankrupted by contempt fines when four City Councilmen refused to comply with a housing desegregation plan, the entire seven-member Council is up for election in a vote widely seen as a referendum on the plan.
Neighborhood groups have lined up behind two slates of candidates who are defined less by parties than by their stands on the housing issue: whether to dig in and continue to resist, or build the court-ordered housing and move on.
Legally, the battle is all but over. The United States Supreme Court has upheld a Federal judge's 1985 finding that Yonkers discriminated against blacks by confining public housing to one side of the city. Next spring, construction is to start on public housing on the city's mainly white east side. 
But those who fought the housing plan last year and now seek election again vow to pursue new legal appeals.
 
Picking Sides
''The hard-working employee who buys a house is being trampled by an unfair judge,'' said Henry Spallone, who is the most outspoken Councilman opposing the housing plan, and who now is running for Mayor. ''The question of individual right is being trampled.''
The election has drawn all segments of this city of 194,000 into the controversy. From the mainly black, urban southwest to the mainly white, suburban east side, posters are appearing in living-room windows and homes are buzzing with small gatherings to hear candidates' views.
''We've been put on notice that we can't afford to neglect local legislators,'' said Gene A. Capello, who is supporting the re-election campaign of Mayor Nicholas C. Wasicsko, who has urged Yonkers to comply with the housing order.
Keith Hoover, an illustrator who is president of the Park Hill Residents' Association, whose members individually support compliance, said, ''People see that it's time to make a choice. They are starting to grasp all the lost opportunities and forfeited programs due to the City Council's obsession with fighting the housing.'' Two summers ago, when the Council resisted the housing order, a Federal judge imposed fines that doubled daily. When the fines reached $1 million a day, the Council reversed its position.
Both sides say the contest for control of the Council is close.
Leading the charge for Mr. Spallone is the Save Yonkers Federation, an umbrella organization of 43 neighborhood associations. It contends that the 200 units of low-income housing ordered by the court would pull down property values and bring crime and drugs.
Additional support has come from Local 456 of the Teamsters Union, which represents city sanitation workers and custodians.
 
'Bankruptcy Is Better'
A bumper sticker popular during last year's financial crisis has reappeared: ''Bankruptcy is better.''
On the other side, several neighborhood groups have joined to oppose Mr. Spallone. And the Yonkers Federation of Teachers - worried that a Spallone mayoralty would harm fragile, but so far successful, voluntary school desegregation - has sent out 70,000 letters and fliers and made 30,000 calls on behalf of Mayor Wasicsko.
In southwest Yonkers, several black congregations have heard sermons about the significance of the election.
''In the past,'' said the Rev. Luther A. Evans, pastor of Community Memorial Baptist Church and president of the Ministerial Fellowship, a group of 12 black churches, ''I have steered away from making any open comments about politics, but I cannot continue to do so now. You have to have a mayor who would at least uphold the law. Mr. Spallone is a lawless person, and he would make Yonkers a lawless city.''
 
Power Is in Council Majority
The contest between Mr. Spallone and Mr. Wasiscko is mostly symbolic, for Yonkers has a weak-mayor form of government. The mayor is a member of the City Council but has little more power than the other members.
Power lies in a Council majority, as Yonkers saw last year when Mr. Spallone, then a Democrat, and three Republicans defied the desegregation plan and cast the city into financial crisis. Mr. Spallone switched his party affiliation earlier this year, avoiding a primary contest with Mr. Wasicsko.
''We need four or more anti-housing councilmen who are going to put forward our feelings at every possible turn and legally fight the remedy,'' said Jack O'Toole, president of the Save Yonkers Federation. ''We need Mr. Spallone to the extent that we need four votes our way on the Council.''
 
Closely Watched Fifth District
The most closely watched race is in the Fifth District, which is in east central Yonkers and includes both expensive and working-class neighborhoods. A strong housing opponent and eight-term Republican Councilman, Nicholas V. Longo, lost the Fifth District primary to Thomas A. Dickerson, who favors complying with the housing plan. Mr. Longo's support came almost entirely from the working-class neighborhoods, and Mr. Dickerson's from the wealthy neighborhoods.
Now Mr. Longo is running on the Conservative line, while George Oswald, who is believed to oppose the plan, is running as a Democrat.
In the First District, which includes the southwest corner of Yonkers and most of the city's minority neighborhoods, the Democrat, Joe L. Farmer, who supports compliance, faces Ronald S. Jones, a Republican who opposes the housing plan.
In the Second District, which is southcentral Yonkers and includes integrated working- and middle-class neighborhoods, the Democrat, Ed Cousens, who wants the housing built, is running against Councilman Peter Chema, who defied the desegregation order.
 
Dominate Issue
In the Third District, which is northwest Yonkers and includes integrated middle-class neighborhoods, Barbara C. Cola, the widow of Charles Cola, a Ccouncilman who voted to bring the city into compliance, is running as a Democrat against John D. Spencer. Mr. Spencer has taken a stronger position in support of compliance.
Mr. Spallone's bid for mayor vacated the Council seat in the Fourth District, where Elliot Palais, a Democrat, is running against Salvatore Sialiano, a Republican. Neither favors the low-cost housing, but advocates of compliance generally support Mr. Palais, believing he is closer to their position. The Fourth District is southeast Yonkers and includes modest neighborhoods where opposition to the court-ordered housing is the strongest.
In the Sixth District, which is northeast Yonkers and includes middle- and upper-middle-class neighborhoods, the candidates take opposite stands. The Republican incumbent, Edward J. Fagan Jr., who defied the court order, is opposed by Ralph Ferraioli, who supports the housing plan.
Mayor Wasicsko said he had hoped that the housing issue would not obscure other problems facing Yonkers, like crime, drugs and economic development. But his opponent's stand has made broader discussion impossible, he said.
''All the problems that an aging city has, we have,'' he said, ''and for the last two years they've been festering while we've been tilting at windmills.''

GRAPHIC: photos of Mayor Nicholas C. Wasicsko; Henry Spallone (NYT/Joyce Dopkeen) (pg. B1); Nicholas V. Longo; Thomas A. Dickerson (NYT/Joyce Dopkeen) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YONKERS (NY)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CITY COUNCILS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; BLACKS (IN US); DISCRIMINATION RACE & RACISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); JUDGES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (76%); APPEALS (75%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W



65 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: 2% Cut in Agencies' Budgets Is Ordered by Cuomo Administration

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 2

 BODY:
The Cuomo administration ordered a 2 percent cut in the operating budgets of state agencies today, saying the reduction was needed because the state had overestimated tax revenue and faced a potential deficit of almost $300 million this year.
The State Budget Director, Dall W. Forsythe, told fiscal officers of the agencies that it was up to them and their commissioners to decide where reductions would be made. The directive came as the state budget office issued its assessment of the state's finances at the midpoint of the fiscal year.
Last year the state was also forced into a major midyear correction after conceding that original revenue estimates had been too optimistic. But the gap cited this year, $277 million, was far below the $2 billion deficit the state announced last November, when it imposed a temporary hiring freeze and announced delays in signing major contracts. 
The cuts, which will also apply to the State University and City University systems, are intended to pare about $135 million from state spending. The rest of the gap, budget officials said, might be closed through reductions in payments to local governments, which would require approval by the State Legislature when it meets here in January.
In saying that the state's budget situation was manageable, Mr. Forsythe conceded that his projections were based on the assumption of an upturn, similar to the one that occurred at the end of last year, in key revenues between now and the end of March, when the fiscal year ends. The Budget Director called this expectation ''reasonable,'' but said that if it did not materialize, the state's fiscal picture could be far worse than what is projected.
Several commissioners and other officials said the spending reductions, while seemingly small compared with steps they were asked to take last year, were nevertheless painful because they would come from budgets already trimmed at the request of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. The Governor repeatedly called for ''austerity'' and ''discipline'' last spring as the $47 billion budget was being prepared.
No agency appeared this afternoon to have drawn up specific plans for cuts, although several officials said they believed they would be able to avoid layoffs.
Among the options said to be under consideration are hiring freezes, elimination of some low-priority programs, maintenance deferrals and reductions in travel.
Mr. Forsythe's report also indicated that the state might consider further reductions in the contributions it makes to the state employee pension plan, a money-saving measure it employed earlier this year.
That possibility drew an angry reaction from State Comptroller Edward V. Regan, the custodian of the plan, who said its long-term security ''cannot be jeopardized by the State Budget Division using these pensions as an annual budget-balancing tool.''
 
Faulty Assumptions
Last year's shortfall was attributed largely to faulty assumptions about the effects of Federal tax revisions, as well as the effects of the plunge in the stock market in October 1987. This year, Mr. Forsythe cited lower than expected revenues from corporate, sales and real-estate taxes, and a general slowdown in the Northeast economy.
Whatever the cause, some officials said it was disturbing that a shortfall had occurred again. ''With all the problems last year, it doesn't seem sensible to have chosen economic assumptions that were so optimistic,'' said Cynthia B. Green, senior analyst with the Citizens Budget Commission, a private watchdog group. ''You'd think they would have wanted to err on the other side.''
If there is no significant improvement in the state's fiscal health, it is widely expected that Governor Cuomo will use that picture to bolster his case for deferring a planned $400 million tax cut next year.
The State Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, however, repeated his strong support for the tax cut today and said a deferral should not be prompted by judgments about the state's economy made ''without complete data in hand.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (94%); BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); APPROVALS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (68%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE



66 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: In Westchester, 2 Moderates Battle for Top County Post

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Nov. 2

 BODY:
In the race for Westchester County executive, voters will choose between two moderate candidates who diverge dramatically in their assessment of Westchester and their approach to government.
The two-term Republican incumbent, 56-year-old Andrew P. O'Rourke, known for his warmth and wit, sees Westchester as a premier place to live, with unparalleled services. There are problems, to be sure, he acknowledges, but under his direction the county has addressed them at an appropriate clip, he maintains.
''On the big social-fabric issues, we are evolutionary, not revolutionary,''
Mr. O'Rourke said. ''One of the drawbacks of democracy is that things take a long time.'' 
 
Threats to County Stressed
His challenger, Richard Brodsky, 43, a four-term State Assemblyman and Westchester native, also likes the county, but says he sees threats to its quality of life. He cites problems ranging from rising property taxes to a lack of affordable housing.
The lawmaker, described by some colleagues in Albany as intelligent and creative but also a bit abrasive and impatient, says he would confront the county's problems with a greater sense of urgency.
''In bureaucracies of this size, we must seize them and shake them up,'' said Mr. Brodsky, who prefers to characterize his style as ''tenacious.''
''If you've seen his campaign literature,'' Mr. Brodsky said of Mr. O'Rourke, ''it's yellow and blue, with big smiles and the American flag. Ours is black and white, with energy and solutions - and the American flag.''
Only one Democrat has held the county executive post since it was created in the 1930's. Mr. Brodsky's initiation into county politics in the mid-1970's was as legal counsel to that man, Alfred B. Del Bello, who went on to become Lieutenant Governor from 1983 to 1985.
 
More Democrats Registered
Nonetheless, Westchester's reputation as a Republican stonghold is slipping. In 1985, Democrats pulled ahead of Republicans in registered voters for the first time, according to the Board of Elections. This year there are 163,250 registered Democrats, 152,447 Republicans and 101,568 unaffiliated voters.
Over the last 20 years Westchester, one of the wealthiest counties in the nation, has gone from a New York City bedroom community to a corporate showcase. But with that growth has come soaring housing costs and rising problems in traffic, solid-waste disposal and drug abuse.
The county government has expanded along with its responsibilities. Presiding over 10,000 employees and an annual budget edging toward $1 billion, Mr. O'Rourke points to several accomplishments:
He has helped people get off welfare with a program requiring them to work and has spurred housing for low-income and homeless people through public-private partnerships. He has saved open space by buying tracts of land, fostered recycling programs, begun drug-education classes countywide and raised awareness about AIDS and Lyme disease. His balanced budgets, coupled with a $130 million surplus, have given Westchester a triple-A bond rating.
 
Curb on Taxes Proposed
But Mr. Brodsky faults him for a 79 percent increase in county property taxes since 1983 and has proposed limiting future increases to no more than the rate of inflation for the non-mandated portion of the budget. He has also proposed $12 million in cuts from next year's budget, including layoffs for county workers.
Mr. Brodsky criticizes Mr. O'Rourke for blaming the state and Federal Government for his inability to solve the county's crisis with homeless people. Aside from New York City, Westchester has the largest population of homeless people in the state. Barred by state law from building permanent housing, the county will spend $64 million this year to shelter more than 4,000 homeless people in motels.
Mr. Brodsky insists that state law prevents county governments only from issuing bonds to create housing. He says he would use tax dollars to build and rehabilitate apartments.
The State Comptroller's office, however, says counties are prohibited from engaging in any housing activity, other than making contributions to services like sewer and water lines. An amendment to the State Constitution that would give counties the power to build housing has been introduced in the Legislature and received initial approval.
Mr. Brodsky, a fervent advocate of abortion rights, has also criticized Mr. O'Rourke for his stand on this issue. Mr. O'Rourke has said he is personally against abortion but supports a woman's legal right to one.
 
Contrasting Personalities
In Albany Mr. Brodsky has led the fight for tougher ethics laws, the barring of alcohol in certain sections of public stadiums and the routing of low-cost energy to industries in southeastern New York. The Greenburgh resident is a graduate of Ardsley High School, Brandeis University and Harvard Law School.
''Richard is extraordinarily bright,'' said Suzi Oppenheimer, a Democratic State Senator from New Rochelle. ''He has a creative intellect that often makes him appear impatient and abrupt, because he's always a few steps ahead of everyone else.''
Mr. O'Rourke grew up in Hell's Kitchen on the West Side of Manhattan. His mother was blind and on welfare; after school he delivered fish and worked as an usher. He attended Fordham University on a scholarship, receiving a Bachelor of Science degree and a law degree, and then went to New York University, where he earned a master's degree in law. He lives in Yonkers.

GRAPHIC: photos of Andrew P. O'Rourke; Richard Brodsky (NYT/Alan Zale)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS COUNTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (68%); PUBLIC HOUSING (67%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); LAWYERS (50%); 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W; O'ROURKE, ANDREW P (COUNTY EXEC); BRODSKY, RICHARD (ASSEMBLYMAN)



67 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: Pop/Jazz;
9 Days and Nights of the Blues

BYLINE: By PETER KEEPNEWS

 BODY:
THE blues is a hot property again.
Persuasive evidence that the country is in the midst of another blues revival can be heard for nine days starting tomorrow night at 8, when the second annual Benson & Hedges Blues festival begins at the Beacon Theater.
The focal point of the festival will be the Beacon, which will play host to concerts tonight and next Friday and Saturday. One dollar from the sale of each ticket is to be donated to Emmaus House, a privately run shelter in Harlem for the homeless.
On Sunday and through next week, there will also be free showcases for traditional and acoustic blues and workshops and symposiums about the blues. The first event is to take place on Sunday at the Henry Street Arts for Living Center. ''The Legacy of the Blues'' is to present R. L. Burnside, a 62-year-old guitarist who is one of the last practitioners of the authentic Mississippi Delta style, and Bill Neely, a Texas guitarist in his early 70's who was one of the first white musicians to play the blues. The blues scholars and film makers John Allison and Alan Govenar are to provide commentary. 
In addition, five Manhattan clubs that regularly feature the blues - Brother's Bar-B-Que, Delta 88, the Lone Star Roadhouse, Tramps and Under Acme - will join forces on Monday in what is being billed as a ''Blue Monday Blues Bash.'' (What this means is simply that all five will be presenting blues acts under the aegis of the festival, although the organizers are hoping that some kind of multi-venue jam session will take place.) The Lone Star Roadhouse will also offer blues shows on Tuesday and Wednesday nights.
''The blues is more popular than it has ever been as far as I'm concerned,'' said Willie Dixon, the 74-year-old songwriter and singer who is an architect of electrified Chicago blues. ''People have beome wiser about it - wise that blues is the roots.'' Mr. Dixon is to perform on Nov. 10 at the Beacon Theater.
Last year, Benson & Hedges Blues lasted six days, and smaller versions of the event were held in St. Louis and Atlanta. This year, the schedule has been expanded, and George Wein, whose Festival Productions stages this event and the JVC Jazz Festival, said similar blues packages would be presented in St. Louis, Atlanta and Dallas and possibly in Chicago and Los Angeles.
What's behind the latest blues revival? There are all sorts of possible explanations, most of which boil down to words like simplicity and roots. One explanation was offered by Katie Webster, a pianist and singer who is to be performing at tomorrow night's concert called ''Dynamic Blues Divas,'' with Etta James, Nell Carter and Mavis Staples.
''I think people are getting back down to basics now,'' said Miss Webster, who is 50 years old and who has been performing for three decades, but whose career had been moribund for several years until the early 1980's.
''They're realizing that even though there are various fads of music, blues and jazz and gospel will always be around,'' she said. ''Some of the songs that were hits five years ago, you don't hear anymore. You don't even hear from the artist. But you can always hear someone doing something by Muddy Waters or Albert Collins or B. B. King. They're staples in the music, and they're always going to be there.''
Many of those songs have been written by Mr. Dixon, who will be at the Beacon on Nov. 10 with Albert King, Dr. John and a jazz-oriented all-star ensemble called Blues Summit. Mr. Dixon is probably the most prolific songwriter in blues history and certainly the most successful: his compositions include ''Spoonful,'' ''The Seventh Son'' and ''Hoochie-Coochie Man.'' As a producer, arranger and house bassist at Chess Records in Chicago in the early 1950's, he helped create the electrified updating of the classic Mississippi Delta approach that was an important forerunner of rock-and-roll.
''Blues is the greatest music on the face of the earth,'' Mr. Dixon said. ''It gives the people music plus rhythm plus wisdom. It speaks the word just as it is: I love you, I don't like you. It says what's what. The words speak the truth; you don't have to guess what they mean.''
If simplicity is a key to the lasting appeal of the blues, that does not mean that the genre lacks variety, as the festival's offerings demonstrate. Tomorrow night's concert features both blues singers and singers influenced by the blues. Two singers on the bill, Miss Carter and Miss Staples, are not generally thought of as blues artists. Miss Carter's usual territory is Broadway and the cabaret world, while Miss Staples began her career as a gospel singer and is currently most often heard in a pop-soul context.
The concerts next weekend at the Beacon - the show on Nov. 11 is to feature the Fabulous Thunderbirds, Bobby Blue Bland, John Lee Hooker and the team of Buddy Guy and Junior Wells - will present electrified blues (although not too electrified; there will not be a synthesizer or a drum machine in sight). Meanwhile, the free showcases will look to older rural blues.
''I would like to get people interested in not only the electric blues, but also the acoustic blues, which is still alive in Mississippi,'' said the blues scholar Mr. Allison, who was introduced to the music at an early age by his father, the singer and pianist Mose Allison, who grew up in Mississippi. The son, who is working on a film about the current Mississippi blues scene, said many of the more traditional performers still ''don't have much of an income at all.''
 
Black and White
On the other hand, many of the music's surviving giants are making a better living now than they ever have, and many young musicians who just a few years ago might not have even considered a career in the blues are doing extremely well by it. Quite a few of those younger artists are white, a phenomenon that is accepted if not always welcome by such veterans as Mr. Dixon, who said: ''A lot of white people can sing and play real well, but a lot of them don't have all the qualifications. It's hard to deliver if you haven't lived the life.''
While the music remains fundamentally black, its current audience is overwhelmingly white. Miss Webster estimated that her typical audience is 80 percent white, although she added, ''I don't think black people are getting away from the blues; they're just taking a recess from it.''
This year's festival will not include any shows at the Apollo Theater; the Benson & Hedges Blues concert held there last year ''just didn't go,'' Mr. Wein said. ''The economics of the black community are such that young blacks are not supporting this kind of concert,'' he said.
But to take the blues to black listeners, the festival is to feature free concerts at two Harlem auditoriums: one by Jessie Mae Hemphill on Tuesday night at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture and one by Sunnyland Slim on Wednesday night at the Studio Museum in Harlem.
 
Where the Blues Are Going to Be
Benson & Hedges Blues, a nine-day festival, will feature performances and film screenings, some free, around New York City. Festival information: 787-2020. For more information, call the clubs. Here is a schedule of events.
 
Tomorrow
 
BEACON THEATER, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street (496-7070). Etta James, Nell Carter, Mavis Staples and Katie Webster, 8 P.M. Tickets, $25 and $30.
 
Sunday
 
HENRY STREET ARTS FOR LIVING CENTER, 466 Grand Street. ''The Legacy of the Blues,'' with performance by R. L. Burnside, a guitarist, and a film-and-slide program presented by John Allison, founder of the Mississippi Delta Blues Project; ''The Texas Tradition,'' with a performance by Deep Ellum, guitarist, and Bill Neely, singer, with a blues film program; 1 to 5 P.M. Free.
 
Monday
 
LONE STAR ROADHOUSE CAFE, 240 West 52d Street (245-2950). Ruth Brown and Little Jimmy Scott, 9 P.M. Tickets, $13.
TRAMPS, 45 West 21st Street (727-7788). Little Milton and the Uptown Horns, 9 and 11 P.M. Tickets, $12.
DELTA 88, 332 Eighth Avenue, at 26th Street (924-3499). Marva Wright, 9 and 10:30 P.M. Tickets, $12.50.
BROTHER'S BAR-B-QUE, 228 West Houston Street (727-2775). Mystic Chain, 10 P.M. Tickets, $6.
UNDER ACME,#9 Great Jones Street (420-1934). The Hudson River Rats, 9 P.M. Tickets, $6.
 
Tuesday
 
SCHOMBURG CENTER FOR RESEARCH IN BLACK CULTURE, #515 Lenox Avenue, at 135th Street (862-4000). Jessie Mae Hemphill, 7 and 9 P.M. Free.
LONE STAR ROADHOUSE CAFE, blues revue, with Teo and the New York All-Stars, Bobby Radcliffe, and the Robert Ross Band, with Johnny Watkins, 9:30 P.M. Tickets, $10.
 
Wednesday
 
LIBRARY AND MUSEUM OF THE PERFORMING ARTS AT LINCOLN CENTER, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 64th Street (787-2020). Dave Van Ronk, 1 P.M. Free.
STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM, #144 West 125th Street (864-4500). Sunnyland Slim, with Steve Freund, 7 and 9 P.M. Free.
LONE STAR ROADHOUSE CAFE, Johnny Copeland, and Young Neal and the Vipers, 9:30 and 11:30 P.M. Tickets, $13.
 
Thursday
 
LIBRARY AND MUSEUM OF THE PERFORMING ARTS AT LINCOLN CENTER, Joe Louis Walker, 1 P.M. Free
LONE STAR ROADHOUSE CAFE, Lonnie Mack and Johnny Johnson, 9:30 and 11:30 P.M. Tickets, $12.
 
Nov. 10
 
PHILIP MORRIS BUILDING, ATRIUM, 120 Park Avenue, at 42d Street. John Campbell, guitarist. Free.
BEACON THEATER, Albert King, Dr. John, with Hank Crawford and David Fathead Newman; Blues Summit, with Jimmy McGriff, Clarence Gatemouth Brown and Jimmy Witherspoon and Willie Dixon, 7 P.M. and midnight. Tickets, $25 and $30.
 
Nov. 11
 
BEACON THEATER, Fabulous Thunderbirds, Bobby Blue Bland, John Lee Hooker and the Coast-to-Coast Blues Band and Buddy Guy and Junior Wells, 7 P.M. and midnight. Tickets, $25 and $30.
 
Nov. 12
 
HENRY STREET ARTS FOR LIVING CENTER, ''The Legacy of the Blues: Blues as the Facts of Life,'' with Lonnie Pitchford and Snooks Eaglin, guitarists; and screening of ''Mississippi Delta Blues,'' a film by Worth Long, Paula Tadlock and David Atwater; Mr. Long is the host for the screening, 1 P.M. Free.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Katie Webster who will perform with Etta James and others tomorrow at the Beacon. (David Gahr) (pg. C1); John Lee Hooker (Jack Vartoogian); Etta James (Renato Tonelli); and Jessie Mae Hemphill (Jack Vartoogian), who are among the performers who are to be appearing in the second annual Benson & Hedges Blues festival , which begins tomorrow at the Beacon Theater.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BENSON & HEDGES BLUES FESTIVAL

TICKER: VOJ (FRA) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5147 MEAT & MEAT PRODUCTS (67%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (75%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: BAR-B-QUE INDUSTRIES INC (67%); VICTOR CO OF JAPAN LTD (51%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; CONCERTS AND RECITALS; FESTIVALS FESTIVALS (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (71%); STREET ART (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); SONG WRITING (66%); THEATER (57%); HOMELESSNESS (55%); 

PERSON: KEEPNEWS, PETER; WEBSTER, KATIE; JAMES, ETTA JOHN A ALLISON (55%); 



68 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 18, Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Review/Film;
Private Detectives and Public Peculiarities

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
The dark cloud that is ''Second Sight'' has a silver lining, at least for the economy-minded. Both John Larroquette (star of television's ''Night Court'') and Bronson Pinchot (''Perfect Strangers'') are much, much funnier for free.
Not even the laziest, drowsiest, most accommodating home video viewers will ever find much to laugh about in ''Second Sight.'' Mr. Pinchot, wearing a long-haired fright wig, plays a guileless nut named Bobby McGee who has been struck by lightning and turned into a psychic. Mr. Larroquette, misanthropic as ever, plays the business partner who is happy to exploit Bobby to suit the needs of their detective agency, and who's also glad to put his protege's powers to other uses. Thanks to him, Bobby supplies vital statistics about available women and functions as a remote-control television tuner. 
This could well have been funny, since Mr. Pinchot has such a genius for weird effects, and since the screenplay also throws in a parapsychologist (played by Stuart Pankin) who spouts New Age jargon. Joel Zwick's direction is so outstandingly maladroit, however, that it squelches any possible humor, which in any case is pitched dangerously low. That the psychic's seizures can be stopped by feeding him chocolate-covered peanuts may give some idea of the audience at which ''Second Sight'' is aimed.
The story, which connects these wacky detectives with the College of Cardinals, is least appetizing when it introduces Bess Armstrong as a perky, lovestruck nun. There seems to be a car chase every 15 minutes. One of the film's few interesting peculiarities is its pacing, since it demonstrates the same degree of artificial liveliness from beginning to end. Aside from the cheap blue-light special effects that are supposed to simulate an airplane's passing through the Callahan Tunnel in Boston, there's nothing in the last reel to distinguish it from the first.
''Second Sight'' is rated PG (''Parental Guidance Suggested''). It includes rude language and a couple of bathroom jokes.
 
Looking Ahead
 
SECOND SIGHT, directed by Joel Zwick; written by Tom Schulman and Patricia Resnick; director of photography, Dana Christiaansen; edited by David Ray; music by John Morris; production designer, James L. Schoppe; produced by Mark Tarlov; released by Warner Brothers. Running time: 83 minutes. This film is rated PG. Wills ... John Larroquette Bobby McGee ... Bronson Pinchot Dr. Preston Pickett ... Stuart Pankin Sister Elisabeth ... Bess Armstrong Lieutenant Manoogian ... John Schuck Captain Coolidge ... James Tolkan Priscilla ... Christine Estabrook <u4145>

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SECOND SIGHT (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WARNER BROTHERS LICENSING (51%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS MOVIE RATINGS (89%); CONTENT RATINGS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (77%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (72%); FILM DIRECTORS (72%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); 

PERSON: MASLIN, JANET JOHN LARROQUETTE (74%); BRONSON PINCHOT (73%); 



69 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

The Economy
Senate Republicans effectively abandoned efforts to win a capital-gains tax cut this year, giving up plans to attach the measure to a debt-limit bill. A clear victory for the Democrats, the concession is a serious setback to President Bush, who had made the tax cut a centerpiece of his election campaign. Just weeks ago, he appeared to have a victory within his grasp. [Page A1.]
Three men were indicted for running a company that New York's Attorney General says illegally transmitted about $70 million to the Dominican Republic and other countries. [D1.] 
The quality of U.S. economic reports is being undermined by budget cuts, staff reductions and the problems of gathering data, economists say. For instance, the September report on durable goods nearly missed its scheduled release. [D1.]
Nonfarm productivity increased at a 2.1 percent annual rate in the third quarter. The gain was overshadowed by data showing an anemic gain in manufacturing productivity and wage inflation. [D2.] Big retailers reported modest to good October sales. [D2.]
 
Markets
The New York Stock Exchange announced strict limits on computerized trading of stocks, which has been criticized as causing wild swings in prices. The exchange will ask brokers and institutional investors to refrain from trades that ''destabilize'' the market, reduce the use of a computerized order system when prices are falling, and in some cases make it possible for individuals' orders to be executed faster than those of institutions. [A1.] The changes could create confusion about market prices. [D6.]
A Senate committee approved legislation intended to increase Federal oversight of the futures markets and to strengthen self-regulation at the commodity exchanges. [D3.]
Weakness in computer stocks pushed down the Dow industrials. After being off about 30 points in the afternoon, the Dow climbed back to a close of 2,631.56, down 14.34. [D6.]
Prices of Treasury securities rose modestly in light trading, as dealers awaited the release of employment data. [D13.]
Gold futures settled $6 to $6.20 higher, reaching three-month highs on the Comex amid fears of a worsening outlook for equities. [D14.] The dollar finished mixed in light trading. [D14.]
 
Companies
Ford said it would buy Jaguar for nearly $2.38 billion, in a deal that reflects the eagerness of big car makers to acquire prestigious brands. G.M., which had been in talks with the British luxury car maker, said the price ''could not be justified.'' [D1.] Chrysler workers in St. Louis rejected a proposal for a four-day workweek. [D4.]
Two Knoll International executives were sued by United Technologies and Gibbons Green, who contend that financial information about Sheller-Globe was fabricated before it was sold. [D12.]
A three-month strike is beginning to hurt Nynex's bottom line, its executives and analysts say. [D1.] A.T.&T. will raise its rates for the rental of residential telephone equipment. [D4.]
Forstmann, Little is trying to raise $3 billion from institutions to invest in public companies without borrowing. [D1.]
Sears may not sell its landmark tower in Chicago after all, and is considering alternatives. A decision is expected this year. [D2.]
Integrated Resources agreed to sell several businesses to Broad for about $170 million. [D4.]
Penguin Group named Morton Mint to become chief executive of Penguin USA. But rumors were plentiful about who would get the top job at Random House. [D5.]
 
Today's Columns
Underlying Britain's political crisis is a deep, historic question: How much sovereignty should Britain be willing to sacrifice to join Europe? Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Compaq is expected to introduce a bold desktop computer, but investors pummeled its stock after the company said October sales were below expectations. Market Place. [D6.]
The top creative job at Ogilvy & Mather/New York is a bit like managing the Yankees, Bill Hamilton says. Advertising. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TAX LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FUTURES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INFLATION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); STATISTICS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); METALS MARKETS (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); STRIKES (72%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); US DOLLAR (67%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



70 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: Strike Begins to Squeeze Nynex

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
A three-month telephone strike by two unions representing 60,000 workers of the Nynex Corporation is beginning to hurt the regional Bell telephone company's bottom line, Nynex officials and telephone industry analysts say.
Nynex, the holding company that owns New York Telephone and New England Telephone and provides local telephone service to seven Northeastern states, has seen the number of telephone lines in service decline because new ones cannot be installed quickly enough. That, in turn, has taken a bite out of revenues and profits.
At the same time, large business customers have looked to competing companies for private-line telephone service, a loss of market share that some analysts say Nynex will not be able to win back soon.
 
Other Strikes Settled
Nevertheless, Nynex says it can hold out for many more months before the strike begins to have a financially devastating effect on it. 
Strikes at other regional telephone companies were settled over the summer, but analysts say that Nynex has been forced to take a harder line because it faces a more difficult operating environment. For one thing, Nynex has significantly higher operating costs than other ''Baby Bells'' because the older telephone equipment and switches in its network are expensive to maintain and because it operates in a region of aging cities and dense population that requires more labor to provide services.
In addition, Nynex is facing widespread opposition to a petition it has filed with the New York State Public Service Commission for a $360 million rate increase to offset revenues lost because it can no longer automatically charge for phone-line maintenance.
The debt-rating division of Standard & Poor's said Monday that it was considering lowering Nynex's rating because of the company's declining earnings and the likelihood that it would not receive a rate increase.
Given the length of the strike, which involves wages and medical benefits, several analysts have lowered their estimates for what the company will earn for the year. Jack Grubman, a telecommunications analyst with Paine Webber, reduced his earnings estimate to $5.85 a share, from $6, for 1989 and to $6.20, from $6.50, for 1990.
''There are serious costs associated with a strike of this nature, mostly in forgone revenues, and that tends to hurt financial results for a quarter or so,'' Mr. Grubman said.
Officials at other regional telephone companies affected by strikes last summer agreed with the analysts. The officials, who asked not to be identified, said their calculations showed that a strike of more than two months would have hurt their profits in the fourth quarter and for the year.
 
'Nobody Makes Money in a Strike'
Robert J. Eckenrode, the vice chairman of Nynex, said the strike ''is having a negative impact on revenues because we have a continuing backlog of new installations, because our focus during the strike is keeping those folks who are already in service in service.''
''In terms of the general question, 'Are we losing money in the strike?' the answer is nobody makes money in a strike,'' he said. ''While we in the short term have some expense reductions, we also have increased costs from folks doing security and overtime. Put it all together, and the strike is close to an aggregate financial neutral.''
Nynex and the unions have entered an arbitration period, but union officials close to the negotiations said the talks are going nowhere. Referring to the strike, Mr. Eckenrode said Nynex ''can run this thing for an extended period of time if we have to.''
''Quite honestly, we are struggling to get this over and the very fact that the mediation process is going forward is a positive sign,'' he said.
In the third quarter, Nynex's net income dropped 14.8 percent to $288.7 million, or $1.47 a share, from $338.9 million, or $1.72 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 4 percent, to $3.31 billion, from $3.18 billion, mainly from the company's acquisition of AGS Computers and growth in its nonregulated operations.
Nynex attributed the decline in earnings to higher taxes and interest costs and to fewer installations of new telephone lines because of the strike. Nynex said the number of access lines in service at the end of the third quarter was off 18,000, to 14.972 million, from the previous quarter.
Hit especially hard by the strike has been New York Telephone, where profits have been lower than expected because of the economic slowdown in the New York City area and competition from small telephone concerns that build private networks and lease lines to businesses.
 
Manhattan's Importance
Analysts have criticized Nynex for being too dependent on corporate phone customers in Manhattan. At New York Telephone, 25 percent of the revenue comes from only 1 percent of the business customers. In the face of the slowdown, large companies in the New York area have been cutting costs, and telecommunications expenditures have been high on their lists.
Nynex does not disclose earnings for each division, but its telephone operations contribute the bulk of its profits. Last year, telephone operations generated revenue of about $10.33 billion. Mr. Eckenrode said that regulated telephone services account for about 85 percent of Nynex's revenue and that New York Telephone represents two-thirds of that.
''The biggest danger coming out of the strike is that business customers are saying that they no longer want to subject themselves to the risk of relying on Nynex for service and they are looking at 'bypass' vendors,'' said Joel Gross, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. ''The Teleports of the world are going to get even more business, and it's not because they are cheaper but because businesses want some insurance.''
Teleport, a company that runs a satellite and fiber-optic communications center on Staten Island that links business centers in New York and New Jersey, sends and receives vast amounts of data used by banks, brokerage houses and other information-intensive businesses over its private network. Teleport serves about 120 buildings in the New York area.
Robert Atkinson, Teleport's senior vice president for regulatory and external affairs, said the company had received ''a flood of inquiries'' since the strike began from companies needing new circuits immediately.
''You lose your job as a corporate telecommunications manager if the lines go down, so the most logical strategy is to diversify your suppliers and not to put your eggs in one basket,'' Mr. Atkinson said.
In recent years, Nynex has fallen short of investors' expectations and its stock performance has been the worst of the Baby Bell issues. Nynex shares are about 22 percent higher than they were at the beginning of the year, compared with 42 percent for shares of the Bell Atlantic Corporation and 23 percent for those of U S West Inc.
Nynex shares closed at $78.875 yesterday, down 37.5 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Mr. Gross of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette said he considered Nynex's stock a bargain. ''People are saying that the company is not competent, the region's economy is sinking and the regulatory environment is difficult,'' he said. ''But the fundamentals of this company are not quite as bad as the attributes. And it's just a matter of time before things pick up.''
 
Reason for the Strike
The strike began Aug. 6 when talks between the company and some 60,000 members of the Communications Workers of America and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers broke off over a proposal by management to shift some health-care costs to workers.
With the nation's telephone system highly automated, residential and business customers who dial directly have not felt any immediate effect from the strike beyond delays in reaching directory-assistance operators. Customers, however, have experienced widespread delays in obtaining repairs and new services.
During the strike by operators, installers, maintenance and clerical workers and other personnel, there have been more than 200 reports of vandalism, and local telephone service in some areas has been disrupted by vandalism. In addition, a union worker picketing in Mount Pleasant, N.Y., died in an accident involving the car of a Nynex worker.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing the lead of Nynex against Baby Bells in revenues per line (source: Salomon Brothers) (NYT) (pg. D1); change in number of Nynex telephone lines over previous quarter (source: Nynex Corp.) (NYT) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYN (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NYNEX CORP (91%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NYNEX CORP

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; STRIKES; LABOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (73%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (73%); PETITIONS (69%); MARKET SHARE (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (64%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN



71 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: For Gatherers of U.S. Data, A Close Call Last Month

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
This is the story of a near miss in the troubled world of data gathering.
Except for some snow delays, missing a release date for an important economic report is virtually unheard of. But for several hours on Monday, Oct. 23, officials in the Commerce Department and the Census Bureau thought the September report on orders for durable goods could not be finished in time for its scheduled release on Oct. 24.
Officials said they were considering a delay because several companies had not supplied the monthly data needed to produce an accurate report. Only with repeated calls to the companies and extra hours of work into the evening were the data obtained and the report finished in time. 
 
A Fragile Process
The episode is but one example of the fragility of the process of collecting data and producing regular economic statistics. More and more economists and statisticians are criticizing the reports the Government agencies are producing because their quality is being undermined by budget cuts, staff reductions and the problems of gathering data.
Many of the figures collected are provided voluntarily, which is a growing problem because companies are more likely now to cut costs by choosing not to provide the data. Or they just may not worry as much about getting it in on time if that causes problems for them.
Adren Cooper, a Commerce Department information officer who deals with this and other economic reports, said he was worried that people do not realize how close the department sometimes comes to not getting a report out. ''I would hope if we fail to deliver that the financial markets don't go into a panic,'' he said.
Ruth Runyan, the chief of the manufacturers' shipments, inventories and orders division in the Bureau of the Census, said that the bureau would not release an economic report if it was determined that the data base was too small and that the report would be subject to a major revision in the following months. She said there had been several times during her 10 years that such a possibility was considered. But in the end, she said, no report had ever been delayed.
 
'Alternative Positions' Weighed
She said that on the morning of Oct. 23 officials ''were considering alternative positions'' because several large companies had not supplied the regular monthly data on durable goods - products like kitchen appliances and automobiles, which are expected to last three years or more. ''We didn't have it and we weren't sure we were going to have it,'' she said.
The companies, which she would not name, have always supplied the data voluntarily. She said that as of that Monday morning several large companies had not yet compiled the data themselves. But she would not say why there had been a delay.
She said the companies were not deliberately holding up the data. But she did say that ''we always have some companies who set their priorities and we will be at the lower end of it.''
Officials in the Bureau of the Census continued to press the companies for the data and finally were assured by early afternoon that the figures would be supplied in time for the September release to be prepared. The report showed a drop in orders of one-tenth of 1 percent in September, following a rise of 3.9 percent in August. A larger decline was avoided because of the second-largest increase in military orders on record.
Ms. Runyan said the bureau spends a lot of time every month calling the companies involved to remind them about the data.
She said the important lesson of the near miss is that the bureau is willing to delay a report if it feels it will not be based on sufficient data. She said she would rather take her chances on a delay than report a figure she knew would be revised significantly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (58%); US CENSUS BUREAU (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); CENSUS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); SHIPMENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (67%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



72 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: 3 Are Indicted Over Money Transfers

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

 BODY:
The Attorney General of New York said yesterday that three men had been indicted for running a company that had illegally transmitted about $70 million to the Dominican Republic and elsewhere in Latin America in more than 500,000 transactions.
The case is the second to be brought in the state against a business accused of failing to get a license to transmit money, although New York authorities have identified more than 135 such operations that lack licenses.
Most of these inner-city operations are used by recent immigrants to send money to relatives abroad. But banking authorities say that as banks become more vigilant about drug traffickers who try to deposit cash and then transfer it, these storefront businesses are being used wittingly and unwittingly to move narcotics profits to Latin America and Asia. 
In response, state prosecutors and banking regulators in New York have stepped up their efforts to prosecute the unlicensed money transmitters.
Robert Abrams, the Attorney General, said there was no evidence that the three indicted men, who ran a company with 15 branches called Dominican Dollar Express, knew they may have been laundering illegal drug profits. But he and the state banking superintendent, Jill M. Considine, said at a news conference yesterday that state regulators had been overwhelmed and lacked the manpower and tough laws to prosecute these unlicensed operations that transmit money abroad.
''We don't know what the money was from,'' Ms. Considine said. ''We cannot tell precisely what goes on at an unlicensed entity.''
Mr. Abrams added that the law regulating the transmitters ''is an absolute joke and a mockery of the law-enforcement process'' because the maximum penalty for not being licensed is a year in jail and a $500 fine. To get a license, a money transmitting operation must pass an investigation by the Banking Department and post a $500,000 bond.
 
Loan Sharking Accusation
The three men named in the indictment face a stiffer sentence, however, because they are also accused of loan sharking, for which the maximum sentence is 15 years in prison and fines of either $5,000 or double the amount illegally gained. Mr. Abrams said the defendants had used customers' deposits to make loans at 30 to 50 percent interest.
State bank regulators from around the nation have been meeting this week in Austin, Tex., to explore the growing problem of illegal money transmitters. The Senate Banking Committee chairman, Donald W. Riegle Jr., Democrat of Michigan, is also preparing legislation to regulate money transmitters.
The few cases that have been brought by state prosecutors around the nation have usually been developed by regulators who received complaints that immigrants who sent money had been defrauded. Ms. Considine said that other storefront operations were being investigated and that bank examiners had combed local ethnic newspapers for advertisements for money transmitting services. 2 Are Released on Bail Erasmo Taveras and Raul Quiroz, two of the three men indicted yesterday, pleaded not guilty before State Supreme Court Justice Brenda Soloff. They were released on $162,875 bail, the amount that had been seized from the Dominican Dollar Express headquarters at 591 West 181st Street in Manhattan.
The third man, Pedro Alegria, was said by state prosecutors to be in the Dominican Republic. Mr. Abrams said the state would contact Interpol, the international law-enforcement network, to try to have Mr. Alegria arrested and deported.
Peter Crusco, an assistant Attorney General, said Mr. Alegria had been appointed by the President of the Dominican Republic five years ago to be the country's tourism representative in New York. Mr. Crusco said Mr. Taveras and Mr. Quiroz, who live in the Bronx, had run large travel agencies in New York.
Mr. Abrams said that the men ran a loan sharking operation, called Credimatic, that lent money to small local businesses like bodegas and dry cleaners that had been unable to obtain loans from banks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SBID (LSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE BANK OF INDIA (51%); STATE BANK FOR FOREIGN ECONOMIC AFFAIRS (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOMINICAN DOLLAR EXPRESS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; DOMINICAN REPUBLIC; LATIN AMERICA

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; MONEY LAUNDERING; DRUG TRAFFIC; LOAN-SHARKING CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SENTENCING (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); MONEY LAUNDERING (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BAIL (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (68%); CRIMINAL FINES (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%); 

PERSON: ABRAMS, ROBERT (ATTY GEN); TAVERAS, ERASMO; QUIROZ, RAUL; ALEGRIA, PEDRO



73 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: A Japanese Strategy for Boeing

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEATTLE

 BODY:
The Boeing Company, once fiercely independent and self-reliant, is turning to partnerships with the Japanese in the belief that there is no better way to preserve its position as the world's leading aircraft manufacturer. But the emerging alliance is not without a conflict: while the Japanese try to learn everything they can about making airplanes, Boeing tries to hide its most important techniques.
Until recently, the Japanese have mainly been suppliers of aircraft parts, even whole body sections, to Boeing. But now, although Boeing has made no announcement, its executives made clear in interviews that for the rest of the century the company will try to work principally in partnerships with Japanese to design and produce new aircraft.
Boeing's partnership strategy gives Japan a leg up toward its stated goal of becoming adept at manufacturing commercial airliners, a high-tech industry in which it lags far behind the United States. A Commerce Department aerospace expert, Sally Bath, speaks approvingly of Boeing's partnership approach, but others attack it as giving away aircraft technology and manufacturing prowess to the Japanese. 
 
Inherent Conflicts
The partnership has already begun at Boeing, and the conflict inherent in the uneasy alliance shows up in the daily routine. Forty Japanese engineers from three companies work alongside Americans at Boeing's design center for new aircraft. This number is likely to quintuple, Boeing says, once work starts on a new aircraft, probably the 767X, a twin-engine jetliner with 300 seats. Boeing and Japanese officials have begun talks to determine how the partnership may function for the 767X.
But the movements of the Japanese engineers here are restricted. They are not, for example, allowed inside factories, to observe Boeing's production techniques. They are kept away from wing design, an important technology. And they cannot enter the computer rooms that use special software to analyze how well a new design might stand up in flight.
''This is software that took Boeing 20 years to perfect, and the Japanese don't have access,'' James T. Johnson, a Boeing vice president, said.
The Japanese engineers are redesigning aircraft parts and taking part in wind-tunnel tests of some aircraft designs. But in meetings, when a delicate subject comes up, the Japanese are asked to leave, Mr. Johnson said. ''They are excellent engineers and aggressive,'' he explained, ''and when they ask you what you have in your notebook, you sometimes have to tell them, no, they can't see it.''
The point of all this is to keep the Japanese as subordinate partners, without enough manufacturing or marketing know-how to rival Boeing as a competitor. Boeing single-handedly accounts for 2 percent of the nation's export revenue, primarily from overseas sales of its commercial airliners. Exports brought Boeing $7.9 billion in sales last year, or 46 percent of its total.
But even as partners, the three Japanese companies - Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. and Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. - could become important players in aircraft manufacturing in the 1990's. That would happen if they managed to make their partnership indispensable to Boeing, said Heather Heath, an aerospace specialist at the Harvard Business School.
''Boeing has to be concerned that it is creating a time bomb for the next generation,'' Ms. Heath said. ''The Japanese will in time acquire enough skill and make a big enough contribution to demand an ever bigger share of the partnership.''
Boeing executives recognize this danger, but say they are forced to adopt the partnership strategy anyway, not only for the 767X but also for future models. ''It is no longer realistic for us to go it alone,'' said Lawrence W. Clarkson, a Boeing senior vice president.
Two big reasons are cited. One is that airliners, like the proposed 767X, can require $4 billion to develop and then do not return a profit for a decade. Boeing says it cannot afford to risk so much money alone, and the Japanese are eager investors.
But most important, the Japanese airlines are big, essential Boeing customers, buying, for example, more 747's and 767's than airlines in other nations. As part of the bargain, they insist on being partners in the manufacture of the planes that they buy, Boeing executives say.
For years, there have been quid-pro-quo deals in the aerospace industry. To sell planes to, say, an Italian airline, Boeing and other manufacturers have agreed to buy parts from Italian companies, or engage in other exchanges. But they had stopped short of full partnership, until Japan pressed the issue.
 
Race With Airbus
''In my opinion, had the Japanese developed a partnership relation with Airbus instead of us, they would be flying Airbuses today instead of our airliners,'' Mr. Clarkson said, referring to the European aircraft manufacturing consortium.
Boeing signed its first partnership deal with the Japanese in 1986, insisting that it be limited to the three companies, although the Japanese Government had wanted others to be included. Recently, Japanese officials said they would continue with partnerships for the manufacture of large jetliners for at least a decade because the world market is not big enough for Japan to break in on its own.
For Boeing, the 1986 partnership was the biggest step in a globalization process that started in the mid-1970's. Since then, Boeing has turned increasingly to foreign suppliers for parts, and now 15 percent of some airliners come from abroad. The parts are made to Boeing's specifications, although in a few cases, parts design was done by subcontractors.
The first Boeing-Japanese partnership gave the Japanese companies a 25 percent stake in the development of the 7J7, a 150-seat aircraft with two turboprop engines. Some 115 Japanese engineers came here to help develop the plane. When Boeing suspended the 7J7 program for lack of what it considered an adequate market, the number was cut to the interim staff of 40 engineers.
Now Boeing and the three Japanese companies say they are beginning to negotiate a 767X partnership - one that would require assembly of the plane in Seattle, with many of the parts and some body sections purchased in Japan and in other countries. In fact, the Japanese would play an important role in designing the 767X's fuselage and in developing composites used in the aircraft's skin, Mr. Johnson said.
If Boeing has its way, the partnership would give the Japanese companies a 25 percent stake, just as in the 7J7 deal, and would include the numerous technology exclusion clauses in the 7J7 agreement, according to Mr. Johnson, who ran the 7J7 program, and to Roy B. Phillips, director of international programs.
''There is no question that when you collaborate with people, there is a technology transfer,'' Mr. Phillips said. ''The question is how do you do it without compromising your technology lead.''
Boeing officials expressed optimism that a contract will be signed. ''They are determined to be in the aircraft business,'' Mr. Clarkson said of the Japanese. ''But for the foreseeable future, we believe that they will be happy to do so as a partner.''
But some economists think that partnership with the Japanese will inevitably cost Boeing its leadership in commercial aircraft. Among them is Clyde T. Prestowitz, a Japan specialist at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. He says that in place of the Japanese partnership, Boeing should turn to the Federal Government. Help may come partly in the form of altered antitrust rules that would encourage Boeing to make partnership deals with American aerospace companies.
''It is easy for me to imagine that Boeing's bargaining position vis-a-vis the Japanese will erode,'' Mr. Prestowitz said, ''and by the 21st century Japan will be producing supersonic aircraft, with Boeing as their minority partner.''
Boeing has its own defense of the partnership strategy. Its executives say Japan will not go it alone because it cannot justify the outlay for commercial aircraft manufacturing - no matter how important the industry. This approach holds that the Japanese home market for jetliners is not big enough to support aircraft manufacturing until the Japanese become efficient enough to export.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 13, 1989, Monday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Nov. 3 about the Boeing Company's partnerships in Japan misidentified an aerospace specialist at the Harvard Business School. She is Heather Hazard.

GRAPHIC: Diagram of a Boeing 767-200 (source: Boeing)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (98%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS AIRLINES (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); EXPORT TRADE (61%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS



74 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Ford to Buy Jaguar for $2.38 Billion

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
In a deal that reflects the continuing consolidation of the world auto industry and the eagerness of big car makers to acquire prestigious brands, the Ford Motor Company announced today that it plans to buy Jaguar P.L.C. for a total of nearly $2.38 billion.
The friendly deal ends several weeks of jockeying to link up with the British luxury car maker between Detroit's two largest producers, Ford and the General Motors Corporation. G.M. had been negotiating to buy a large stake in Jaguar, an option the British company's chairman, Sir John Egan, a former G.M. executive in Europe, preferred because the proposed purchase stopped short of a takeover and thus would have insured Jaguar's independence. Jaguar and G.M. had been discussing a linkup for roughly nine months.
 
Effect of British Ruling
But the British car maker's independence seemed doomed when the British Government, in keeping with its free-market leanings, declared last Tuesday that it was willing to lift a state restriction that could be used to bar another company from owning more than 15 percent of Jaguar until the end of 1990. Thus the favored car of British executives and Cabinet ministers, including Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, was all but certain to fall into foreign hands. 
The Ford-Jaguar linkup is the most significant of a handful of purchases and stake holdings in European luxury and sports-car makers by Detroit producers. Smaller moves during the past few years include G.M. linking up with Group Lotus, Ford buying 75 percent of Aston Martin Lagonda, and Chrysler picking up Maserati and Lamborghini. Until now, the targets have been mostly tiny high-performance producers.
Increased competition from the Japanese moving into the luxury-car sector, the high cost of developing new models, and a downturn in the crucial American market have made it increasingly difficult for smaller car makers like Jaguar to go it alone. Others, such as Saab-Scania A.B. and Volvo A.B., are scrambling to find big well-heeled partners. Unusual Statement by G.M. Today after the Ford offer, G.M. declined to enter the bidding and took the unusual step of publicly stating that Ford's bid price ''could not be justified.'' Ford's bid of $13.32 a share is nearly twice what Jaguar's market value was before Ford announced its intent to buy control of the company in mid-September.
Ford had $5.8 billion in cash and marketable securities as of Sept. 30. But even so, the Standard & Poor's Corporation announced today that $40 billion of Ford's long-term debt and $30 billion of its commercial paperare being evaluated for possible downgrading. S.&P. cited the Jaguar deal and the recent $3.35 billion purchase of the Associated Corporation.
Ford's offer may seem extraordinarily high for a company that made 51,939 cars last year and is now barely breaking even. But Ford executives made it clear that they were paying a premium for the Jaguar name and would invest heavily to turn the British company into a much bigger producer.
''One of our first tasks will be to discuss with Jaguar management its plans for future model development and the actions necessary to expand its manufacturing and product development resources,'' said L. Lindsey Halstead, chairman of Ford of Europe. ''Our intention would be to increase Jaguar's sales volume.''
Analysts expect Ford to invest $1 billion or more in Jaguar to double or triple its output and have it manufacture a high-volume car that would sell for $30,000 to $40,000. Ford has failed to score much of a success in either that market or the one that Jaguar is already in: luxury cars that sell for $40,000 to $60,000.
Ford tried unsuccessfully to establish a European luxury import franchise in the United States. It was called Merkur and had two models: the XR4Ti, which had a base price of $19,759, and the Scorpio, base price $28,407. Ford has just stopped selling the XR4Ti, and it announced last month that it would also stop selling the Scorpio.
At a news conference today, Sir John said G.M. had known that Jaguar expected Ford to make an offer for the company this week. But he added that Jaguar did not inform G.M. of Ford's bid, and thus did not give it a chance to top the offer before accepting it.
This afternoon, G.M. said it could not justify even trying to match Ford's bid. Ford offered 8.50 ($13.32) a share, or a total of $2.11 billion, for the 86.8 percent of Jaguar it does not own. Since Sept. 19, when Ford declared its intent to acquire control of Jaguar, it had purchased 13.2 percent of the company for $262.1 million.
G.M. said in a statement, ''After an intensive review of Jaguar's products and plants and in view of the losses currently being sustained by them, together with Jaguar's significant future cash and other requirements, G.M. concluded that the maximum value that could be assigned to all of the Jaguar shares was very significantly below the 8.50 being offered.''
G.M. added, ''The premium of approximately 1.3 billion ($2 billion) over book value at yearend 1988 could not be justified.''
Although Daimler-Benz A.G. of West Germany had been negotiating possible joint ventures with Jaguar, analysts do not expect offers from other companies. The price Ford has offered would be too high for big European car companies, and Japanese companies would be reluctant to get into a takeover battle, they said.
Sitting next to Mr. Halstead at the news conference, a subdued Sir John stressed that Ford had promised Jaguar considerable autonomy. Under the agreement Jaguar's headquarters and manufacturing operations would remain in the West Midlands section of central England, it would have its own board, and it would maintain a separate dealer network. Mr. Halstead was evasive when asked about the possibility of making Jaguar cars outside Britain; he did not rule it out, but reiterated his commitment to British production.
Even before the takeover battle erupted, it became clear that changes in the market made it impossible for a small car maker like Jaguar to go it alone, said Sir John, who has headed the company for nine years. The economies of scale and bargaining clout of a giant parent like Ford, he added, would also enable Jaguar to obtain lower prices for components.
 
Jaguar's Recent Results
Like other European makers of luxury cars, Jaguar has also been hit hard by exchange-rate problems and a downturn in the United States, its most important market. In the first half of this year, Jaguar barely broke even, and analysts expected no better performance, and possibly a loss, for the full year. Last year, Jaguar had an after-tax profit of $51.4 million on sales of $1.99 billion.
With the chance of a takeover battle between Ford and G.M. gone, Jaguar's shares fell 50 pence (78 cents) today on the London Stock Exchange and closed at 8.29 ($12.99).
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange today, Ford's share price fell 62.5 cents, closing at $46.50.
About 26 percent of Jaguar's shares are held in the United States in the form of American depository receipts. Americans hold as much 20 percent in the form of shares bought on the London Stock Exchange.
Jaguar, once a Government-owned company, was turned over to the private sector in 1984 and was heralded as one of the success stories of the Thatcher Government's programs to get the Government out of business.

GRAPHIC: Photo of L. Lindsey Halstead, left, chairman of Ford of Europe, and Sir John Egan, chairman of Jaguar P.L.C., at a news conference yester day after Ford agreed to acquire Jaguar. (Agence France-Presse); table showing the main businesses, revenues, pretax profit, car sales, employees & headquarters of Ford and Jaguar (source: Company reports) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); VOLV.B (STO) (63%); VOLV.A (STO) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (63%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (61%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); JAGUAR PLC (91%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (72%); SAAB-SCANIA AB (64%); AB VOLVO (63%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAGUAR PLC; FORD MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (83%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SPORTS CARS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN JOHN LEOPOLD EGAN (57%); MARGARET THATCHER (55%); 



75 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Rose 2.1% In 3d Quarter

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 2

 BODY:
Productivity in the nonfarm sector of the nation's economy increased in the third quarter, but the improvement was overshadowed by other data suggesting that a slump in manufacturing was far from over and that wage inflation remained stubborn.
The Labor Department reported today that overall productivity in the nonfarm sector climbed by an annual rate of 2.1 percent from July to September, nearly double the revised 1.1 percent gain of the second quarter.
But the department also reported that manufacturing productivity improved at an anemic annual rate of 1.4 percent. Gains in factory output reached a three-year low, and unit labor costs rose at their fastest rate since 1982, a recession year. 
 
Effect on Manufacturing
''Manufacturing is clearly soft,'' said David Wyss of DRI-McGraw Hill, an economic forecasting firm. ''The economy is slowing down, and that is going to be felt disproportionately by manufacturing.''
Donald Straszheim of Merrill Lynch & Company said, ''Manufacturing is not likely to improve much until well into next year.''
The 1.4 percent gain in the annual rate of manufacturing productivity was dramatically lower than the 3.7 percent revised rate for the second quarter. The third-quarter number represented the smallest productivity increase since the fourth quarter of 1987.
Manufacturing output was up by an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the third quarter, the smallest gain since 1986. Hours worked in American factories declined by a tenth of 1 percent at an annual rate, after falling a revised two-tenths of a percent in the second quarter.
September unemployment data showed a manufacturing employment drop of 103,000, a sign to analysts that manufacturers were trying to cut costs and raise productivity.
But the outlook remains bleak for the next several months, the analysts said, because rising unit labor costs will exacerbate the already unfavorable position of most American manufacturers in world markets.
 
Labor Costs Up
The Labor Department said unit labor costs rose at a rapid 4.5 percent annual rate in the quarter, after falling at a revised annual rate of 1 percent in the second quarter. It was the largest quarterly increase in unit labor costs in manufacturing since a 9.7 percent annual gain in the first quarter of 1982.
The overall numbers for the nonfarm sector were somewhat more encouraging, but still underscored the recent economic slowdown and the persistent upward pressure on wages.
The 2.1 percent nonfarm productivity gain resulted from a 3.1 percent rise in output and just a 1 percent gain in hours worked. The increase in hours worked was the lowest in more than three years.
Hourly compensation in the entire nonfarm sector rose at an annual rate of 5.3 percent, down from the second quarter annual rate gain of 5.6 percent, but still reflecting inflationary pressures.
''Inflation is still a very serious problem,'' said Elliott Platt, a senior vice president at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Inc.
The productivity gain helped offset the effect of wage gains on unit labor costs in the overall nonfarm sector. Wages increased at an annual rate of 3.2 percent in the third quarter, after rising at a revised 4.5 percent in the second quarter.

GRAPHIC: Graph of index of output per hour of all people in nonfarm businesses from '85-'89 (source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR, DEPARTMENT OF (US)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; PRICES; WAGES AND SALARIES PRODUCTIVITY (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STATISTICS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); INFLATION (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); 



76 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Compaq Sales Dip Alarms Investors

BYLINE: By Thomas C. Hayes

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
COMPAQ COMPUTER is widely expected to introduce a bold desktop computer that can match the speed and power of more costly minicomputers made by Digital Equipment and others.
But Wall Street was not thinking that far ahead yesterday. When the Compaq Computer Corporation said early in the day that its October sales were 10 percent below expectations, its shares tumbled more than $18 each in heavy trading. Compaq's stock finished the day at $89.125, down $16.875, on the New York Stock Exchange. It was the most-active issue on the Big Board, with volume of 5.7 million shares, and the second-biggest loser in percentage terms. 
Rod Canion, Compaq's chief executive, told analysts in a morning conference call that profits in the fourth quarter would not reach their projections and would not match the $91.9 million, or $2.18 a share, earned in the quarter of 1988.
The unspoken message was that for the first time since it was founded in 1982, Compaq would not post higher profits over a comparable year-earlier quarter. Many investors read the message as a sign that sales in the personal computer sector, and in technology in general, were faltering. Shares of Apple Computer, I.B.M., Intel, Microsoft and Lotus Development also lost ground.
Analysts who follow Compaq say the setback should be temporary for several reasons. First, orders for the new lightweight LTE laptop computer Compaq introduced two weeks ago have cut into sales of its heavier year-old laptop, the SLE, more quickly than expected. Compaq does not expect to catch up with LTE orders until the spring.
Compaq's new desktop machines, based on the Intel Corporation's new 486 microprocessing chip, are expected to be introduced Monday in Houston. Analysts said the company would probably sell fewer of the powerful machines this quarter than expected, because Intel, the sole maker of the 486 chip, is behind schedule on shipments. It has to correct recently discovered errors in the chip.
More broadly, the growth rate of sales of desktop computers in the United States has slowed gradually throughout 1989. This reflects a familiar pattern of buyer caution that occurs before the introduction of flashy desktop products.
One factor in Wall Street's reaction is that Compaq's shares had risen so sharply, climbing 31 percent in October to a high of $110 a share, that a period of profit-taking has been considered likely. Yet, even as they were lowering projections for the fourth quarter and for 1990, many analysts said the stock's sharp drop on Thursday has created a buying opportunity.
At the end of trading yesterday, Compaq's shares sold at a price less than 10 times the average amount of earnings projected for 1990 and about 12 times the amount for this year. ''That's why it's a good buy,'' said Michelle Preston, a technology analyst for Salomon Brothers in New York. The 30 stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average were trading at price somewhat higher than earnings in the last four quarters.
''I've talked to Apple, Microsoft and some dealers and nobody is seeing a big slowdown in the industry,'' Ms. Preston said. She was referring broadly to hardware and software suppliers for the desktop computer business., She also said production delays for the new 486 machine should not hurt sales or profits at Compaq next year. Most of the company's sales next year will come from desktop models based on Intel's 386 chip and from its fast-selling laptop models.
Ms. Preston said she kept her 1990 profit forecast at $9.60 a share, although she lowered her estimate for this year to $7.45 a share, from $8.25.
Charles R. Wolf, an analyst at First Boston, cut his estimate for 1990 earnings to $9.50 a share, from $10. ''I can't put my finger on exactly which factor is the dominating reason for the apparent slowdown'' in sales at Compaq, he said, adding that a general slowdown in the nation's economy might have played a part. Over all, Compaq's sales growth should regain momentum next year, he said.
Michael S. Swavely, president of Compaq's North American unit, said in an interview that fourth-quarter sales should rise by 15 to 20 percent, to almost $800 million. That would place Compaq's sales for its seventh year of business at $2.9 billion. For the nine months through September, Compaq's sales rose 50 percent to $2.1 billion, compared with sales a year earlier.
Storeboard, a research firm, recently said the growth rate in sales for the domestic personal computer market slowed this year from an increase of 26 percent in the first quarter, to 5 percent in the third quarter. Compaq's reading of the slowdown is that potential buyers were biding their time until the new generation of 486 products reaches the market. Sales for most desktop makers should rise at a faster clip next year because product advances will expand the market and aging computers will be replaced with newer lower-cost models.
''There are a number of very strong factors driving market growth through the 1990's,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (93%); INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (93%); INTEL CORP (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); COMPANY REPORTS PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (79%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C



77 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Light Trading in Treasury Issues

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rose modestly in light trading yesterday, as dealers awaited the release today of employment data for October.
Most money-market economists expected a rise of about 150,000 non-farm payroll jobs, with a slight drop in manufacturing employment for October. Manufacturing jobs sagged by a huge 103,000 in September.
Estimates on the figures varied widely, but the case for a weaker-than-expected report gained some currency yesterday after the report of a big rise in initial unemployment claims for the week ended Oct. 21. 
''A payroll number of under 100,000 and another decline in manufacturing employment to go with September's big drop would please the market,'' said James R. Capra, a senior vice president at Shearson Lehman Government Securities.
''But it will take a combination of weak numbers in the employment release to create an imperative for the Federal Reserve to ease policy immediately. Absent that combination, the market will start to lose ground, because it is priced about as far ahead of the Fed as it can get right now.''
Mr. Capra was referring to yields on short-term bills and notes being already well below the 8 3/4 percent level that analysts say is the Fed's target for the overnight Federal funds rate. Short-term money market rates tend to move in response to anticipated or actual changes in the funds rate.
 
Debt Legislation
While the initial jobless claims data provided some support to prices yesterday, dealers sold some securities during afternoon trading when news reports from Capitol Hill suggested that legislation to raise the nation's debt ceiling might soon pass. Quick passage would allow the Treasury's quarterly refunding auctions to begin as scheduled on Nov. 7.
''It is inevitable that the auctions will take place, and there is now a high probability they will take place on schedule,'' said William V. Sullivan, Jr., a senior vice president at Dean Witter Reynolds. ''Congress doesn't have many options, because the Treasury will go into default on Nov. 9. I would think that next week we will have when-issued trading in the issues to be sold.''
On Wednesday, the Treasury said that if the debt ceiling is raised it will start the refunding auctions with a $10 billion sale of three-year notes on Nov. 7, $10 billion of 10-year notes on Nov. 8 and $30 billion of 30-year bonds on Nov. 9. An additional $10 billion of cash-management bills will also be sold next Thursday.
The prospect of auctions next week did not inspire a very large sell-off of secondary Treasury issues, however.
By late in the day, the 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price of 102 30/32, up one-quarter, to yield 7.86 percent.
Among note issues, the 8 percent 10-year Treasury notes were offered at 100 29/32, up 3/32, to yield 7.86 percent. And the 7 5/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 99 23/32, up 2/ 32, to yield 7.78 percent.
Treasury bill rates were unchanged to slightly lower yesterday.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.71 percent, down 6 basis points, or hundreths of a point. Six-month bills were unchanged at an offered rate of 7.50 percent. And one-year bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.27 percent, down 2 basis points.
 
Money Supply Report
The Federal Reserve Board reported that two of the three measures of the nation's money supply were unchanged for the week ended Oct. 23. The third and broadest measure, M3, rose by $4.9 billion. The report had no effect on prices in the credit markets.
Activity in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds was very light, dealers reported, with prices of most securities rising by one-eighth point.
Prices of most secondary tax-exempt municipal bonds were also up by about one-eighth point, market participants said at the close of a session in which few securities changed hands.

GRAPHIC: Tax-Exempt Yields (source: The Bond Buyer) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY, DEPARTMENT OF THE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTEREST RATES (65%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



78 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Gold at Three-Month High As Stock Market Weakens

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The gold futures market drew strength from the stock market's decline yesterday, reaching three-month highs on the Commodity Exchange in New York amid growing fears of a worsening outlook for equity investments.
Gold settled $6 to $6.20 higher, with the contract for delivery in December at $382.90 an ounce, its highest settlement since July 26. Silver finished 10.2 cents to 10.6 cents higher, with December at $5.29 an ounce. 
The gold market's gains more than offset its modest losses in each of the three previous sessions.
Analysts said the strength stemmed partly from the stock market's steep losses during the day, although stock prices rebounded after the gold futures market closed.
 
The Appeal of Metals
The stock market's volatile performance in recent weeks has sent many investors running to the perceived safety of precious metals and gold stocks, and yesterday's drop in stock prices encouraged the trend.
''This is a thrust, and it's intensifying,'' said Bette Raptopoulos, metals analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. in New York.
Gold was also supported by the dollar's weakness and the inflationary implications of generally higher commodity prices yesterday.
Copper futures weakened on news that a contract dispute at a Chilean copper mining complex had been settled. Copper settled 9 cents to 3.35 cents lower, with the contract for delivery in December at $1.134 a pound.
 
Pork Bellies Are Active
Frozen pork belly futures rose sharply on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in anticipation of new demand from Eastern Europe. Yugoslavia recently bought some United States pork bellies, the Soviet Union is interested in buying some and the United States was scheduled to sign an agreement today that would lead to the shipment of up to 10,000 metric tons of bellies to Poland.
Pork bellies finished 0.05 cent to 1.12 cents higher, with February at 58.72 cents a pound, Grain and soybean futures posted moderate gains on the Chicago Board of Trade, supported by rumors of pending export sales of United States grain to the Soviet Union and China.
Oil futures prices finished lower on the New York Mercantile Exchange, unable to sustain a brief technical rally at midday. West Texas Intermediate crude oil settled 1 cent to 7 cents lower, with December at $20.01 a barrel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; PRICES FUTURES (94%); GOLD MARKETS (93%); METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); PORK (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TRENDS (78%); COPPER MARKETS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); COPPER INDUSTRY (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); COPPER MINING (66%); EXPORT TRADE (61%); 



79 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Finishes Day Mixed As Traders Await Reports

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished mixed in light trading yesterday as dealers awaited the release of new data on the nation's economy.
But the price of gold, spurred by new foreign demand, rose sharply. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery rose $6.20 an ounce, to close at $380.40. 
The dollar fluctuated in a narrow range as dealers awaited today's release of United States unemployment figures for October.
Kevin Lawrie, a vice president at the Bank of Boston in New York, said currency dealers were looking for a slight increase in unemployment, which would have a negative effect on the dollar.
''Higher unemployment generally signifies a slowdown in the economy, possibly moving toward a more recessionary atmosphere,'' he said, and putting pressure on the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates.
Lower interest rates make American securities less attractive to foreign investors, dampening their need for dollars.
Much of yesterday's trading centered on other currencies, particularly the pound, which took a beating after rumors that one or possibly two British Government ministers had resigned because of insider-trading offenses.
Despite a denial issued by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's office, the pound still lost more than 1.5 cents against the dollar. The traders said the West German mark and Japanese yen directly benefited from the pound's troubles.
In late New York trading, the dollar finished at 143.43 yen, down from 143.80 yen late on Wednesday. And a pound cost $1.5695, less than the $1.5755 of Wednesday.
Other late-dollar rates in New York, compared with those late on Wednesday, included: 1.8424 West German marks, down from 1.8505; 1.6162 Swiss francs, down from 1.6260; 6.2490 French francs, down from 6.2740; 1,354.75 Italian lire, down from 1.358.75, and 1.1733 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1743.
Silver prices were mixed. On the Comex, silver bullion for current delivery rose to $5.255 an ounce, from $5.150 on Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); GERMAN MARK (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); 

PERSON: MARGARET THATCHER (55%); 



80 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Morris DeGroot, 58, A Statistics Professor

 BODY:
Morris H. DeGroot, professor of statistics and industrial administration at Carnegie Mellon University, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 58 years old. 
Professor DeGroot joined Carnegie Mellon in 1957 and became a University Professor, the school's highest faculty position. He wrote three books on economic theory.
He was a member of Gov. Milton J, Shapp's committee to study the health effects of a nuclear power plant in Shippingport, Pa., supporting the view that low levels of radioactive emissions affected infant mortality.
Born in Scranton, Pa., Professor DeGroot graduated from Roosevelt University and earned master's and doctor's degrees from the University of Chicago.
He is survived by his wife, Marilyn; a daughter, Jenny, of Chicago and a son, Jeremy, of Berkeley, Calif; a stepson, Craig Fischer of Baltimore and a stepdaughter, Jill Sweeney of Scranton, Pa.; his parents, Archibald and Florence of Scranton and a sister, Phyllis Weinstein of Rochester, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%); 

CITY: SCRANTON, PA, USA (90%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (88%); CANCER (88%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (86%); LUNG CANCER (73%); EMISSIONS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); INFANT MORTALITY (68%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (55%); POWER PLANTS (55%); 

PERSON: DEGROOT, MORRIS H (PROF) MILTON J SHAPP (57%); 



81 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Panel Concludes U.S. Lacks Data To Assess Offshore Drilling Impact

BYLINE: By ALLAN R. GOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
In a setback to supporters of offshore drilling, a panel of the National Academy of Sciences has concluded that the Government lacks enough information to assess the environmental consequences of oil and gas drilling off the coasts of California and Florida.
In its report, the panel concluded that more studies on possible environmental and economic damage were needed before decisions on leasing and production could be justified at the three sites it studied. The sites cover as many as 13 million acres off Florida's southwest coast, 6.7 million acres off Southern California and 1.2 million acres off Northern California.
The conclusions, in a report requested by a study group appointed by President Bush, do not make an explicit case against leasing or drilling at the three sites, where experts estimate there are appreciable amounts of oil and gas. 
But the academy panel's reservations put considerable pressure on the Administration to back away from its support of offshore leasing in the two states, where there is vehement opposition from Republicans and Democrats alike.
Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan Jr. has already acknowledged, in response to reporters' questions this week, that political opposition in Florida and California is so great that it might take 10 years or more for drilling to begin.
Mr. Lujan's comments were the first acknowledgment by the Administration that offshore oil and gas leasing in the two states was improbable.
Offshore drilling has been going on in Southern California, the Gulf of Mexico and Prudhoe Bay in Alaska for years. But such projects have been put on hold by a one-year Congressional moratorium that forbids leasing activities on 84 million offshore acres, including those covered by the study. Some leases have already been negotiated with oil companies in the tracts off Florida and Southern California. The moratorium was recently expanded to cover more territory after the Exxon oil-tanker spill off Alaska last March.
President Bush, keeping a campaign promise, announced last February that he would delay oil leasing activities in tracts off Southern and Northern California and southwestern Florida pending recommendations of a study group headed by Mr. Lujan, whose department oversees the offshore oil leasing program.
Mr. Lujan's group, which expects to make its recommendations by the end of this year, asked the academy to study the adequacy of existing oceanographic, ecological, social and economic information about those areas. The study, which cost $300,000, was led by John W. Farrington, a professor at the Boston campus of the University of Massachusetts.
In presenting the report to Mr. Lujan's study group, Dr. Farrington emphasized today that it did not address the issue of whether leasing should go forward. But environmental groups and and Democratic and Republican opponents of offshore drilling immediately used the report as ammunition.
Gov. Bob Martinez of Florida, a Republican, said, ''I remain opposed to oil and gas exploration activity off the southern Florida coast, and I hope the findings of such a prestigious organization as the National Academy of Sciences persuades the Federal Government to eliminate the risk by prohibiting the activity.''
 
'Rash, Imprudent and Unforgivable'
Senator Pete Wilson, a California Republican who is running for Governor in next year's election, said: ''It would be rash, imprudent and unforgivable to allow any leasing off California to occur given these findings. The experts agree that we just don't have the information we need to assess the risks involved in Outer Continental Shelf development.''
Oil industry representatives said today that if better information was needed before leasing could go forward, then it should be gathered. But the American Petroleum Institute, which represents major oil companies, said earlier academy studies had found little evidence of environmental harm asssociated with offshore oil production.
Another industry representative said that he was surprised by the study's results but that the President's group would make its decision based on several factors. ''It obviously makes their job a little more difficult, but it is only one input,'' said Carl Schmid, a spokesman for the National Ocean Industries Association, a trade group for offshore oil producers.
Although the academy report dealt only with three specific sites, it raised concern among offshore drilling opponents about the adequacy of environmental information in other parts of the Outer Continental Shelf where leasing is under consideration, including the Georges Bank off Massachusetts.
''It's quite devastating to the Interior Department and raises a lot of questions about similar information in other parts of the Outer Continental Shelf,'' said Lisa Speer, a senior staff scientist with the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group that has fought offshore drilling.
The Administration today reiterated its support for oil exploration of the Outer Continental Shelf, which extends 200 miles offshore, but only if it can be done in an environmentally sound manner.
A spokesman for Mr. Lujan, Steve Goldstein, said the study had provided the President's group with ''the conditions you need to meet before going forward'' with drilling but that it had made no decisions about what it would recommend to the President.
 
Findings of Panel
The academy panel concluded that at all three sites there was a lack of information on potential environmental effects to make sound decisions on development and production. As for decisions on the leasing of tracts, the panel said that available information on oceanographic, ecological and socioeconomic effects was marginal or inadequate at the sites off Florida. It also found inadequate information in some of the categories it studied for the California tracts.
The panel looked at such socioeconomic issues as the impact of leasing and drilling on the fishing industry, tourism and unemployment. Its oceanographic studies examined ocean currents to determine where oil from a spill would land. In the case of Florida, it found that oil from a spill would probably reach coastal areas, and might even move around to the east coast.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCIENCES, NATIONAL ACADEMY OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA; FLORIDA

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; OFFSHORE EXPLORATION AND INSTALLATIONS CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); OIL EXTRACTION (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (90%); OIL & GAS LEASES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); OIL SPILLS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: GOLD, ALLAN R GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



82 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Stable Jobless Figures Calm Fears of Recession
The economy continued to create jobs at a brisk rate, leaving the unemployment rate steady at 5.2 percent.
Economists say the sluggishness in housing and manufacturing has not spread to the entire economy. Page 9.
 
Airliner Safety for Children
Rules being drafted by the Government could end the practice of allowing a child under 2 years old, who now flies free, to be carried on an adult's lap without restraint. Page 26.
 
10 Girls Held in Pin Attacks
Ten youths were arrested and accused of sticking pins into women on the Upper West Side. The black teen-agers looked for white women to stick for ''fun,'' the police said. Page 27.
 
Piniella Is Reds' Manager
Lou Piniella, former Yankee manager, signed for three years in Cincinnati. Cleveland hired John McNamara, ex-Red Sox manager. Page 45.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (71%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: CINCINNATI REDS (56%); CINCINNATI REDS (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CHILDREN (87%); ADOLESCENTS (86%); ARRESTS (68%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (56%); 

PERSON: JOHN F MCNAMARA (56%); 



83 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 3-6
 
East Germany's chief urged citizens to stop fleeing the country and to ''put trust in our policy of renewal'' as he announced the retirement of five senior Politburo members. Page 1
 
East Germans at Bonn's Embassy in Prague say they believe they are leaving a society on the brink of economic ruin. Emigration, they say, is creating a labor shortage of crisis proportions. 1
 
Cheers, jeers, hymns and demands echoed of the medieval walls of a castle church in Wittenberg, East Germany, where 3,000 people gathered this week in one of many protests. 6
 
Hungary's ruling party is in trouble. Almost four weeks after the Communist Party changed its name to Socialist Party and asked its 720,000 members to register anew, only about 30,000 have done so. 5
 
Lithuania moves to allow votes on its future 5 Soviets televise Dubcek interview on the ''Prague Spring'' 5
 
U.S. and Soviet support for the U.N. grew as the superpowers announced plans to submit a resolution calling for the United Nations to play a greater role in maintaining peace and fostering world cooperation. 3
 
Debate over Britain's ties to Europe and its role in the single market of 1992 has emerged from Prime Minister Thatcher's reluctance to join the European Monetary System. 33
 
Colombia's judges went on strike, demanding greater protection against a new surge of drug violence. President Barco renewed his pledge to keep fighting the traffickers. 4 
 
Iran marked the 10th anniversary of the U.S. Embassy takeover in Teheran with a large demonstration. Diplomats saw it as an effort by militants to upstage President Rafsanjani. 3
 
Lebanon's Parliament was blocked by the Christian leader from meeting today in a villa on Beirut's dividing line. An Arab League mediator said plans were being made to hold the session elsewhere. 3
 
National 7-9, 26
 
An ethics panel asked 5 senators if campaign contributions prompted their intervention to aid the failing Lincoln Savings and Loan. 1
 
The impact of oil and gas drilling off California and Florida coasts cannot be assessed by the Government because it lacks data, the National Academy of Sciences has said. 1
 
The Senate voted to remove a judge, Walter Nixon Jr., from the bench after finding him guilty on two of three articles of impeachment. 7
 
New jobs sprung up at a brisk pace in October, calming fears of a recession. Factory employment stabilized, and the overall unemployment rate remained 5.2 percent. 9
 
Drop in U.S. auto sales begins to moderate in late October 33
 
New rules for young air travelers are being drafted by the F.A.A. One rule would prohibit children under two years old from traveling free on an adult's lap without a restraint. 26
 
Tough antitrust action was pledged by two U.S. officials. They said the airline and health-care industries would receive special scrutiny. 33
 
Swift agreement on deficit reduction within Congress was predicted by Senate leaders. The plan would restore $16.1 billion that was automatically cut last month. 8
 
Some 5,400 Chicago school leaders took an oath of office, transferring power to parent-led councils in the nation's most radical school decentralization plan ever. 8
 
A new civil rights memorial in Montgomery, Ala., commemorates the victims of the racial violence and terror of the civil rights era. 7
 
Those killed in the movement 7
 
Two nuclear processing factories in Idaho have been closed by the Energy Department because underground pipes carrying radioactive wastes do not meet safety standards. 8
 
No proof exists to support cold fusion as being a potentially useful source of energy, a Federal panel said. It recommended against special money for more research. 9
 
A chief of police has been arrested in Brockton, Mass., for stealing cocaine from his department's evidence room. He has admitted to using cocaine for five years. 7
 
The Government-teamsters pact reached last March was backed by a Federal judge, who reaffirmed the broad powers of court-appointed officers to discipline union officials. 8
 
Money managers of pension funds vowed to ignore the New York Stock Exchange's latest attempt to curb computerized program trading. 33
 
Regional 27-31
 
A barrage of negative campaign ads in the New Jersey race for governor left both campaign staffs arguing over charges of distortion and racism, bringing tensions between the candidates to their highest. 1
 
Car insurance: the issue that won't go away in New Jersey 28
 
Two new Giuliani commercials sharply critical of David Dinkins went on the air for the final weekend of the New York City mayoral campaign. Both candidates crammed for debates tonight and tomorrow. 27
 
On TV, the final week of the race for mayor seemed to show Mr. Giuliani on the attack and Mr. Dinkins continuing in his mild-mannered way. 29
 
Dinkins's team mixes old hands and newcomers 29
 
Giuliani's staff hits stride 29
 
Right to Life candidate sees moral ills 29
 
Mott Haven's election priorities: fighting drugs and crime 27
 
The killing of a talented youth last Sunday has upset his Hollis, Queens, neighborhood. The 17-year-old youth, Donald White, had planned to take the College Board exam today. 1
 
Ten black girls were arrested and charged with jabbing white women with pins in dozens of unprovoked attacks on the Upper West Side over a one-week period. Investigators said the girls did it for fun. 27
 
An order of nuns against abortion and euthanasia was proposed by Cardinal O'Connor, who said, ''I'm just floating my idea.'' The order, which would include physicians and lawyers, would be called Sisters of Life. 31
 
Random drug tests are to be given to subway motormen, bus drivers, maintenance workers and thousands of other public employees in ''safety sensitive'' jobs in New York City's transit system. 31
 
A prisoner who fled a hospital on Wednesday and is suspected of raping a woman three hours later was arrested in the Bronx when he went to his brother's apartment, investigators said. 30
 
About New York: psychiatrists ply trade at city marathon 27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); LEBANON (79%); IRAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); POLITICS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ETHICS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); STRIKES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); CHILDREN (71%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (61%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (61%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (50%); 



84 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Iran Notes Anniversary Of Fall of U.S. Embassy

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 3

 BODY:
Iran will mark the 10th anniversary of the seizure of the United States Embassy in Teheran with a large demonstration organized by one of country's most militant politicians.
The rally, called by Ali Akbar Mohtashemi, who was removed as Interior Minister in August, is widely seen by foreign diplomats and some Iranians as the latest effort in a campaign by militant Iranian politicians to upstage Hojatolislam Hashemi Rafsanjani, the President. The militants are seen as trying to block the President's economic programs and revive the virulent anti-Western outlook that characterized the foreign policy of Islamic revolutionary Iran.
Mr. Mohtashemi is expected to address the rally in his first public appearance since he was removed from the Cabinet. 
At a news conference last week, President Rafsanjani played down the idea of celebrating the anniversary of the Nov. 4, 1979, takeover, which began the 444-day hostage crisis and poisoned American-Iranian relations for a decade, saying, ''usually we do not celebrate such events.'' But the Iranian President conceded that there is ''a difference in thinking'' among the Iranian leadership.
 
Iranian Visits Beirut Shiites
Last month, in another unmistakable challenge to President Rafsanjani, Mr. Mohtashemi visited Beirut to confer with the pro-Iranian leaders of the Party of God, a Shiite Muslim militia that he helped form.
In an interview today with the official Iranian press agency, Mr. Mohtashemi pointedly said he went to Lebanon ''to assure Lebanese Muslims and all revolutionary brethren that there has been no change in our policies after the passing away'' in June of Iran's supreme revolutionary leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. The visit to Lebanon was dismissed only a few days ago by an Iranian Foreign Ministry official as a private enterprise.
Since taking took over as President of Iran in August, Mr. Rafsanjani has seen his efforts to improve ties with Arab and Western countries and revive the Iranian economy derailed by a hard core of militants in Parliament and among the clergy who oppose better ties with Arab gulf neighbors or with the West. Mr. Mohtashemi is known to have the backing of several other militant Iranian leaders, including Ayatollah Khomeini's son, Ahmed.
''Rafsanjani's grip on power was never that firm,'' said Baqer Moin, an author and expert on Iranian affairs in London. ''It could be strengthened only if he dramatically improves economic conditions by improving relations with the West, something that militant clergy members are blocking. Being the pragmatist he is, Rafsanjani may move in the end to become the leader of the radicals intead of sinking.''
 
Plan to Display U.S. Embassy
The rally planned for Saturday is to coincide with the start of a trial for a number of former Iranian officials accused of being spies in the employ of the American Central Intelligence Agency, according to reports from Teheran.
Iranian officials also said they might open the gates of the captured American Embassy compound to the public for the first time. The Iranian press agency said the embassy would be open for five days as a museum for American spying.
The takeover of the embassy provoked a break in diplomatic, economic and strategic American-Iranian relations, bringing an end to decades of cooperation between the two countries. It also brought about the fall of the moderate Government of former Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan.
The holding of 52 American diplomats as hostages for 444 days has left a bitter memory that neither Iranians nor Americans have been able to overcome over the last decade.
 
Militants Oppose Ties to West
The revival of hard-liners in Teheran comes after many months in which President Rafsanjani has tried to end the estrangement of Iran by signaling his desire for better relations with neighboring Arab countries and the West.
But the militant members of the ruling clergy, including Mr. Mohtashemi and a substantial part of Parliament, as well as the new revolutionary guide, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, failed to support the Iranian President, or acted against his will.
Ayatollah Khamenei was considered an ally of President Rafsanjani, but a few days ago he appointed a militant member of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards, Ali Shamkhani, as commander of the Iranian Navy.
On Wednesday, Ayatollah Khamenei called on Iranians to ''wage perpetual struggle against arrogant powers headed by the United States,'' and on that same day, the Iranian Parliament enacted a law allowing the arrest of Americans anywhere in the world who are accused of harming the interests of Iran.
The law was in response, the members of Parliament said, to the United States move to allow the Federal Bureau of Investigation decision to arrest suspected terrorists without seeking permission of the countries they reside in a few months ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (93%); IRAN (89%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (89%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ANNIVERSARIES (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); RELIGION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); ESPIONAGE (61%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: MOHTASHEMI, ALI AKBAR (HOJATOLISLAM); IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (89%); 



85 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Pace of New Jobs Calms Recession Fears

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3

 BODY:
The Labor Department reported today that the economy created new jobs at a brisk pace in October, calming fears that it might have begun to skid toward recession. In addition, factory employment stabilized after plunging in September.
In all, 119.2 million Americans held civilian or military jobs, and 6.6 million were unemployed, for an unemployment rate of 5.2 percent. That was the same level as in June, July and September. 
The unemployment rate for civilians only was unchanged from the September level, 5.3 percent.
While growth has been spotty in manufacturing and other areas of private industry, the bright spot has come with an increase in jobs in state and local government.
The Commissioner of Labor Statistics, Dr. Janet L. Norwood, noted today that private job growth had averaged only 110,000 jobs monthly over the past four months, half the growth rate of the first half of 1989.
In addition, some analysts predicted today that the figures for job growth in state and local government would probably be revised downward.
Still, an increase of 233,000 jobs, as determined by the department's survey of businesses, was significantly more than most analysts expected. It was therefore taken as reassurance that sluggishness in housing and much of manufacturing, particularly among automobile makers, had not spread to the entire economy.
 
A Surge in Teachers
The slump in the auto industry appears likely to continue; Chrysler Corporation today announced layoffs of 4,000 workers at plants in Michigan, Missouri and Wisconsin.
''There is weakness in the manufacturing sector, but it's not deepening,'' said Norman Robertson, an economist at the Mellon Bank Corporation in Pittsburgh. ''It provides more evidence that the slowdown is not deteriorating into a recession.''
For the second consecutive month there was a surge of 95,000 new jobs, after seasonal adjustment, in local government, largely among teachers, administrators and other school employees who were added for the fall term.
But there was also a second consecutive decline, although a scant 3,000, in goods-producing jobs. In addition, the number of jobs lost since March among manufacturers of durable goods swelled to a total of 155,000.
''This continues to show the split nature of the economy,'' said David W. Berson, an economist at the Federal National Mortgage Association. ''Services are quite strong, while goods are getting weaker, though at a slower rate.'' He agreed with other analysts that today's report was likely to make the Federal Reserve less eager to ease credit, especially in light of recent inflationary pressures. including higher wages and employment costs. A weak economy normally prompts the Federal Reserve to relax credit, thereby reducing interest rates in an effort to spur economic growth.
In New York State, the unemployment rate declined seven-tenths of a point, to 4.7 percent, last month. But the unemployment rate was higher than that of October 1988, when it was 4.2 percent. There were 405,000 unemployed New Yorkers in October, as against 467,000 in September and 359,000 in October 1988.
In New Jersey, the unemployment rate climbed above 5 percent for the first time in three years, reaching 5.1 percent. In September the rate was 4.6 percent. Last October, the rate was 3.9 percent. There were 207,000 unemployed New Jersey residents in October, up from 186,000 in September and 153,000 in October 1988.
''The slowdown in New York and New Jersey is more than anything we have seen on the national scene this year,'' said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, regional commissioner for the Labor Department.
 
Moonlighting on Rise
In her monthly appearance before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress today, Dr. Norwood said there had been an acceleration in the trend of Americans' holding more than one job apiece. Citing a new survey, whose details will be made public Monday, she said increases in multiple jobholding accounted for nearly two-thirds of the difference in jobs added the last four years.
Other department figures showed that regional disparities in employment are narrowing. Among the four major regions, the unemployment rates are 4.5 percent in the Northeast, 5.3 percent in the Midwest, 5.3 percent in the South and 4.7 percent in the West. These figures are not seasonally adjusted. The rates in the Northeast and Midwest deteriorated last month from the September rates, while those for the South and West improved.
The length of the factory workweek fell 18 minutes, to 40.8 hours, but this was partly because of a strike at the Boeing Company that affected hours but not the number of employees.

GRAPHIC: Graph of unemployment rates, Oct. 1988-Oct. 1989 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); table of employment vs. unemployment July 1989-Oct. 1989 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); table of civilian unemployment in the biggest states, Sept.-Oct. 1989 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (62%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (66%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (66%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (62%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR, DEPARTMENT OF (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); STATISTICS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR



86 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Prohibition Was a Triumph for Minority Rule

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Actually, Prohibition Was a Success'' (Op-Ed, Oct. 16), Mark Moore supports his argument with data on public health, violent crime and alcohol consumption.
His claim that home production was legal is wrong, and his use of statistics overstates the benefits of Prohibition. Violent crime rates and alcohol consumption were decreasing and public health was improving long before Prohibition was enacted. Improvements in the economy, in working conditions and medical care, as well as changing demographics, can explain most of the decline in the cirrhosis death rate. The general death rate declined at about the same rate. The alcoholism death rate was about the same before as during Prohibition. 
Crime rates may be the most telling statistics. Before a rash of state prohibitions, World War I prohibition and Prohibition itself, the United States experienced a long-run decline in violent crimes. But violent and property crimes increased through the Prohibition period, only to reverse dramatically after repeal in 1933.
Alcohol consumption declined during Prohibition, but mostly among teetotalers. Some found substitutes, such as narcotics and hashish. Most important, while beer consumption fell dramatically, wine and spirits consumption increased. Also, alcohol products tended to be more potent. Irving Fisher, a champion of the dry cause, noted that ''it requires only a tenth as much of bootleg liquor as of pre-Prohibition liquor to produce a given degree of drunkenness.''
While this may seem exaggerated, compare the effects of crack cocaine and black-market heroin with the cocaine in Coca-Cola and the heroin pills sold by the Bayer Company before the Harrison Narcotics Act. The potency of marijuana has increased several hundred percent since it was outlawed in 1937.
The only success that can be attached to prohibitions is the ability of one group to impose its wishes (not necessarily morality) on another. The only amazing difference with alcohol Prohibition was that a minority was able to impose its wishes on a majority of voters - the drinking class.
 
MARK THORNTON
 Auburn University, Ala., Oct. 19, 1989
 
The writer, an Auburn assistant professor of economics, wrote his dissertation on Prohibition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (54%); 

SUBJECT: LIQUOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (94%); CRIME RATES (93%); VIOLENT CRIME (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (89%); CANNABIS (87%); WRITERS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); BEER & ALE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (72%); PROPERTY CRIMES (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); HEROIN (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); COCAINE (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); LIVER DISEASE (55%); WORLD WAR I (54%); 

PERSON: THORNTON, MARK



87 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: DIALOGUE: Reinventing City Government
Charter Revision: Yes or No?;
It's Urban Paralysis.

SERIES: TOMORROW'S NEW YORK: The Next Mayor - An Occasional Series

BYLINE: By Melvin Miller and Charles E. Schumer; Melvin Miller, a Democrat, is Speaker of the State Assembly; Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat, is a Representative from Brooklyn.

 BODY:
New York City needs a strong, streamlined government to deal with the challenges it faces in the next decade. Problems like building drug rehabilitation centers, cutting budgets, housing the homeless and keeping businesses in New York will require decisive action that could alienate some constituencies.
New York desperately needs clean lines of authority so that important choices can be faced and responsibilities shouldered. The city needs a strong mayor and a strong City Council. Unfortunately, the proposed charter revision, with its emphasis on overlapping bureaucracies and decentralization, is a prescription for urban paralysis. 
The Charter Commission avoided deciding who should make decisions. Instead, it simply expanded the number of decision makers. This convoluted structure will further drain city coffers, make government less responsive and increase the time the city spends fighting with itself.
Consider the circuitous path that a land-use decision will take under the new charter. It starts with a formal application to build something. Next, a local community board ''helps'' design an environmental review. The application then goes to the Department of City Planning for certification.
Next, the Community Board and the Borough President conduct reviews, and the City Planning Commission holds public hearings and votes. The City Council then has to grant its approval, but that can be vetoed by the Mayor. Finally, the Council can override the veto with a two-thirds vote.
This is a recipe for paralysis. Every layer of bureaucracy has a platform and enough power to hold up the process. No one has enough authority to make decisions. While the Charter Commission seeks to promote democracy, it reaches for its goal simply by adding more voices to a chorus that is already a cacophony.
In the crucial area of budgeting, for example, the commission creates an Independent Budget Office that will do much the same work as the City Comptroller. And the budget process as a whole is a complicated labyrinth, with the mayor, comptroller and the City Council having overlapping roles and ill-defined responsibilities.
Consider the predicament of an agency awarding a contract. Oversight and regulation are divided among the procurement policy board, Council committees, comptroller audits and the borough president, who evaluates contract performance. The system is an open invitation to nit-picking and obstructionism.
This procedure would be bad enough on its own, but the charter revision calls for free floating ombudsmen who have no responsibility but to criticize what is being decided. Stripped of any real power, the five Borough Presidents and the City Council president will complicate an already confused procedure.
These problems would not be so objectionable if the revisions met their goal of making government more democratic. Unfortunately, this potpourri system of governing boards will make government more difficult for citizens to follow and hence less accountable.
As always, the special interests will have no trouble figuring who is the appropriate person to lobby. But it will be easy to hide crucial decisions from the average New Yorker. These new dark corners in the governmental process will increase the potential for corruption and influence peddling.
Are we complaining that the charter revision is too much democracy? No. It is too much government. In an age where the needs of an individual are zealously protected by courts and local politicians, government must be structured so that the needs of the whole community are given weight as well. By creating so many governmental entities responsive to individual concerns, the needs of the community will be lost.
Next Tuesday, New Yorkers can strike a blow for efficient city government by voting against the revised charter and sending the Charter Commission back to work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed; Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; CITY CHARTERS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION CITY GOVERNMENT (95%); CITIES (94%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); POLITICS (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); REFERENDUMS (66%); CONTRACT AWARDS (61%); 

PERSON: MILLER, MELVIN (SPEAKER); SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR) CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); 



88 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Looking to the Next Mayor to Fight Crack and Build Hope

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
Up to four times a month, burglars break into the Blue Diner, using a sledgehammer to crash through walls and ceilings, taking anything in sight, from the cash register to meat.
Nick Tzivas, 53 years old, and Mike Doliadis, 49, who have owned the restaurant at East 138 Street and Canal Place in the Bronx for 20 years, point to the men who clean windshields at a nearby stoplight, or drop in to peddle car batteries. The ''crackheads,'' Mr. Tzivas calls them, and he and his partner just wait for the next hit.
The Mott Haven section - bound by a bustling commercial strip to the north, a reviving industrial zone to the west and the Harlem River - is held hostage to drugs, its residents say. ''We need a change,'' said Mr. Tzivas. Fighting Crime and Crack For Mr. Tzivas, the law-enforcement background of the Republican candidate, Rudolph W. Giuliani, is just what Mott Haven needs. But in this Democratic stronghold, where David N. Dinkins defeated Mayor Edward I. Koch by almost 3 to 1 in the primary, many voters see Mr. Dinkins as the one most committed to cleaning up the neighborhood. ''Dinkins definitely wants to make a difference,'' said Nidia Lopez, 50, who has lived in the Mott Haven Houses housing project for 11 years with her husband and two daughters and is a member of South Bronx People for Change, a church-based community group. 
''He's said there's a need to go after the principals, not only the ones who sell drugs on the street. He's also for putting more money into education.''
Elva Maxwell, 38, a mother of eight and a Mott Haven resident for five years, also plans to vote for Mr. Dinkins, but, like many of her neighbors, she questions whether anyone, Democrat or Republican, can help.
''I'm sure anybody in a position of authority is going to try, but there's so much you can do. This is an epidemic. This isn't going to go away.''
Mott Haven is the largest neighborhood in Community Planning District 1, a 2.8-square-mile section of the South Bronx that also includes Melrose and Port Morris. Of the district's 80,300 residents, an estimated 38,000 live in Mott Haven. Sixty-three percent of the district's population is made up of Hispanic residents and 33 percent is black, the 1980 census shows. The population is also young and poor - a quarter falls between ages 14 and 24, and nearly half receives some form of public assistance.
The district has the city's largest concentration of New York Housing Authority units. More than half of its residents live in housing projects.
Housing, or the lack of it, is a major issue in Mott Haven and surrounding neighborhoods. Community board officials estimate that 5,000 people want but cannot get public housing. Housing that is available has poor maintenance and security, they said.
 
Crack Touches Everything
But residents say nothing is worse than crack.
The drug seems to have touched everything and everyone. It is sold and smoked openly outside schools and on thoroughfares, day and night. Police said that easy access to the area by expressway and subway has spawned hardcore dealing spots that feed not only residents but suburbanites. Elizabeth Montalvo, 32, just joined a tenant patrol in her housing project. Since June, about 25 residents at 205-207 Alexander Avenue have put in shifts in the lobby, signing in visitors and watching for suspicious-looking strangers.
But the screening has not deterred the crack smoking that goes on in hallways, stairways, elevators and on the roof, Ms. Montalvo said.
She said her 5-year-old son can identify a discarded crack vial.
''Before he was 5 he was saying, 'Look Mommy. That's crack,' '' she said. ''I get a tremendous headache from the smell.''
 
Seeing Dealers Out the Window
Crack has cast a shadow over signs of revitalization in and around the neighborhood. The commercial district known as the ''Hub'' at East 149th Street and Third Avenue is adding new stores, and a shopping mall is planned for a few blocks north. Nearby Port Morris, a manufacturing center of about 400 businesses, has been targeted by the state for economic development. In a block-long lot on Brook Avenue overrun by weeds and trash, a billboard boasts that 112 two-family homes will be built on the site by spring. The homes will sell for $145,000 to $150,000.
Louis Ramos, 50, who lives near the lot, is not impressed. ''The buildings come up but we have to see about the conditions of the area. One new building doesn't mean that the situation is going to go away.''
John Carney, 65, a real estate investor who owns several brownstones on Alexander Avenue between East 138th and East 140th Streets, lives in Mott Haven's historic district, where he said brownstones sell for $150,000 to $185,000. Mr. Carney said that from his window, he can see dealers selling drugs on the street, barely two blocks from the police precinct house.
''People line up just like in a supermarket,'' he said.
 
'We Don't Have a Solution'
Police average 160 drug-related arrests a month in Mott Haven and its neighboring communities, but residents said such enforcement is not enough. The precinct operates with as few as seven patrol cars a shift. There are only 18 housing authority officers patrolling 11,000 project units, community board officials said.
Residents must also contend with the crime beget by drugs, from stripped cars littering the neighborhood to murder. Police Capt. Bernard M. Gillespie of the 40th Precinct, who said crime this year is up ''slightly,'' acknowledges: ''We don't have a solution. We all admit we don't have the resources.''
At St. Pius V Church at East 145 Street and St. Ann's Avenue, Father Paul Le Blanc has stopped reporting burglaries to the police. His church and school have been broken into so often, he said, that the paperwork was taking too much time.
''I don't see how anybody could steal a crucifix and then sell it on the street, but they do,'' he said.
 
An Insidious Drug
Father Le Blanc, pastor at St. Pius V for 13 years, said that although residents clamor for more police, the drug problem must also be tackled through treatment and education. He said crack leads to more than crime. The low test scores of the area's students, he said, show that the drug is insidious. The area is also afflicted with health problems including high infant mortality rates and babies who are born with the AIDS virus.
''There are kids in our school whose parents have used or are using drugs,'' he said. ''The effect on the kids is tremendous because their role models are those who sell and those who use.''
The Democratic primary vote in the Mott Haven-Hunts Point electoral district yielded 12,519 votes for Mr. Dinkins and 5,092 for Mr. Koch. Mr. Giuliani received 186 votes in the Republican primary, and Ronald S. Lauder, 151.
Luz Gonzalez, 55, a homemaker and homeowner who has lived in Mott Haven since 1969, said her primary vote for Mr. Dinkins was her first ever against Mr. Koch. She plans to vote for Mr. Dinkins again in November. Can Promises Be Kept? She said that the Mayor ''did a lot of good things but I didn't like how instead of uniting the ethnic groups he tried to separate them.'' She said, ''I don't agree with any politician who tries to separate humanity by race.''
Dinkins supporters here dismiss the recent controversy over his finances, attributing it to politics. ''A lot of what you hear is not true,'' said Leola White, 48.
But race is an issue among some residents. A 27-year-old Hispanic mother of four who requested anonymity said she planned to vote for Mr. Giuliani because she believed Mr. Dinkins would only represent the interests of blacks.
A Mott Haven resident of 30 years, Maria Feliciano, 46, expressed a view of political candidates held by many. ''They make promises and then they don't do the things they said they were going to do. Dinkins is a good candidate, and the other one, too. Everything they say about drugs are good things. If only they did them when they get in office.''
State Assemblyman Jose E. Serrano, a Democrat who represents Mott Haven, said that ''one ingredient that some candidates forget is that people are also looking for hope.''
Said Father Le Blanc: ''We haven't lost hope, but we are seriously pressed against the wall.''

GRAPHIC: In the Mott Haven section of the South Bronx, crime is a major issue in the mayoral race. Nick Tzivas, left, and Mike Doliadis own the Blue Diner, which is broken into as often as four times a month. (NYT/Bill Swersey); Elizabeth Montalvo says tenant patrols have not stopped crack smoking in the hallways of her housing project (NYT); map of the Bronx indicating the Mott Haven area (NYT) (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; MOTT HAVEN (NYC); BRONX (NYC); SOUTH BRONX (NYC)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ELECTION ISSUES; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; DRUG TRAFFIC BURGLARY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (74%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (67%); CENSUS (63%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; NAVARRO, MIREYA RUDY GIULIANI (67%); 



89 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1989

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
 Five Senators were asked whether campaign contributions from the chairman of Lincoln Savings prompted them to intervene with Federal regulators on Lincoln's behalf. The questions, in letters from the chairman and vice chairman of the Senate Ethics Committee, are the first indication of the committee's interest in the Lincoln matter. Congressional aides say the panel has not decided whether to open a full-scale investigation. The House Banking Committee is also scrutinizing the Senators' actions. [Page 1.] 
 The U.S. unemployment rate remained at 5.2 percent in October, calming fears that the economy is sliding into a recession. The Labor Department reported that the economy created jobs at a fairly brisk pace, and factory employment stabilized after plunging in September. The overall jobless rate remained at 5.2 percent, the same level as in June, July and September. The increase in jobs slightly exceeded the rise in the number of people in the labor force. [9.] The top antitrust officials in the Bush Administration said in their first major policy statements that they would strengthen enforcement policies. They singled out the airline and health-care industries for scrutiny. [33.]
 
 
 
Markets
 Some pension-fund money managers vowed to ignore the Big Board's restrictions on computerized trading, saying they have an obligation to seek the best possible yields for their clients. [33.]
 Treasury notes and bonds fell after the Government reported that nonfarm employment grew more than expected and because of a Congressional stalemate over the U.S. debt ceiling. [36.]
 Stock prices slipped. The Dow Jones industrials closed 2.05 points lower, at 2,629.51. For the week, the Dow rose 32.49 points, or 1.26 percent. [36.]
 The dollar was mixed in domestic trading after rising in foreign markets. [41.] Gold prices lost some the gains from earlier in the week, while oil and pork belly futures rose. [41.]
 
 
 
Companies
 UAL, the parent of United Airlines, faces a new challenge. An investor group led by Coniston Partners will seek control of the board through a shareholder vote and will pursue talks with United's unions to see whether a buyout offer could be revived. [33.]
 Dow Jones agreed to pay $672 million for the one-third of Telerate that it does not now own. An earlier bid was rejected. [37.]
 GTE says it agreed to a settlement with Home Shopping Network. GTE won $100 million as a libel and slander award in August after a Florida jury rejected Home Shopping's assertion that GTE provided ineffective equipment and service. [35.]
 The Gap said it would discontinue operations at its Hemisphere unit. The nine-store experimental chain, which offered more expensive clothing than Gap stores, never operated at a profit. [35.] The employment contract of the head of New American Library will not be renewed when it expires at the end of December. Robert G. Diforio said he would leave next week, possibly for a new position in book publishing. [43.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 The genetic coding to reproduce an important part of the human immune system has been patented by scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. A start-up company hopes to use the technology to develop diagnostic tools and drugs for autoimmune diseases. Patents. [34.]
 There are opportunities and pitfalls for investors seeking to lower their tax liabilities through some fourth-quarter maneuvering. Your Money. [34.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FUTURES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ETHICS (77%); BONDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (75%); LIBEL & SLANDER (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); DEBT CEILING (72%); GOLD MARKETS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); HEALTH CARE (67%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (67%); AIRLINES (66%); PORK (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); VERDICTS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (52%); 



90 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: As Sales Slip, a Model Plant Suffers

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FAIRFAX, Kan.

 BODY:
If ever an automobile plant was an unlikely candidate for idling, the jewel of General Motors' modernization strategy here was it.
But on Oct. 27, G.M. closed this mammoth complex near Kansas City for two weeks ''to balance inventories of Pontiac Grand Prix,'' a euphemistic way of saying there have been too many cars and too few buyers.
The shutdown illustrates the seriousness of the recent sales slowdown for the nation's auto makers. The Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation have also been shutting assembly plants for few-week stints recently. [On Friday, Ford announced that three of its plants would be temporarily closed, and Chrysler said it would permanently shut its Jefferson Avenue assembly plant in Detroit, effective Feb. 2. Chrysler is also canceling one of two shifts at a St. Louis assembly plant. There is little relief on the horizon. The three major Detroit producers reported on Friday that car sales in October fell 14 percent.] ''Everyone is running scared; they're concerned about their jobs,'' said Bud Carroll, president of local 31 of the United Automobile Workers. 
Older auto plants building mature models are inevitably shut down when sales slip. But the new Fairfax plant is exclusively producing Pontiac's Grand Prix - a car on which G.M. has pinned much of its hope for strong sales. The four-door version of the Grand Prix was introduced only in October. The list price for both models is $14,564.
Relations between hourly workers and managers at the Fairfax plant are harmonious, and concepts like work teams, popularized by the Japanese, are being used in an attempt to improve the product.
But after six years of strong vehicle buying - an extraordinarily long streak extended by rebates, discounts and subsidized financing - consumer demand for new cars and trucks has been waning. Because of the discounts, dealer profits in 1989 have been thin. Thus dealers are now reluctant to rebuild inventories until they see more buyers. While it is not surprising that dealers might have trepidations about ordering older Pontiac models like the 6000, even orders for the Grand Prix, which was introduced two years ago, have been disappointing.
 
'It's a Little Scary'
''Last year we kept 50 to 60 Grand Prix in inventory; this year our target is 30,'' said Mark Miller, owner of Mark Miller Pontiac in Salt Lake City. ''The soothsayers all are saying we'll have a dropoff in volume. G.M. announced rebates on 1990 cars before the cars got to the showroom. Customer traffic is off. It's a little scary.''
But even if buyer demand had remained as strong as in recent years, the Fairfax plant would face another problem: industrywide overcapacity. Domestic manufacturers as a group have too many assembly plants in North America, and the situation is worsening as Japanese auto makers continue to open plants. G.M., building about 1.5 million vehicles fewer than a decade ago and now operating at 70 to 80 percent of capacity, has by far the most idle capacity. The Big Three as a whole are operating at about 87 percent of capacity.
Roger B. Smith, the chairman of General Motors, has declared the closing of outdated plants a tactic in the company's modernization strategy. The production of those plants is supposed to be shifted to a smaller number of new and more efficient plants, like those in Fairfax and Hamtramck, Mich., and the Saturn plant in Spring Hill, Tenn.
Under this scenario Fairfax workers should be feeling much more secure than they do. But many of the 3,200 hourly workers are nervous. Earlier this year they were idle for four weeks for ''inventory balancing.'' They get 70 to 90 percent of their pay through unemployment benefits.
 
Car Impresses Workers
 ''This doesn't look good for anyone's job,'' said Steve Bohannon, an hourly worker. ''Everyone has got so much confidence that G.M. is going to turn it around. I don't like it.''
Layoffs notwithstanding, General Motors workers have been impressed with the design and the quality of the Grand Prix, said Dan Mallett, the union's shop chairman. ''Everywhere we go our members ask people they see driving the Grand Prix how they like their cars,'' he said. ''We haven't gotten a single complaint.''
Interviews with dealers indicate they are pleased, too. Lee A. Beaman, a Pontiac dealer in Nashville, called the four-door ''a good-looking and great-performing car.
''I'm a little perplexed about why it isn't a roaring success,'' he said.
John Middlebrook, a G.M. vice president and general manager of Pontiac, thinks the Grand Prix's troubles are temporary because the four-door model is not yet well known in the marketplace. But he wonders how much rebates might have to grow to motivate consumers jaded by discounting. ''Is a $1,000 rebate now a ho-hum for consumers?'' he asked. ''It just might be.''
General Motors opened the $1 billion Fairfax plant for production in 1987 and dedicated it to the Grand Prix, one of the company's midsized cars that also include the Chevrolet Lumina, Buick Regal and Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme. General Motors, which has scaled down this program, known as the G.M. 10 line, to account for heightened competition, designed Fairfax to produce more than 200,000 Grand Prix; under current conditions, the plant may not build 175,000 in the coming year.
 
Other Plants Slow
 ''As we fill out the model line, we still feel we can use the capacity of the plant,'' said Mr. Middlebrook, noting that General Motors will build a higher-performance version of the Grand Prix, called STE, in January. Another G.M. 10 model could be added to Fairfax to pick up the slack, but Mr. Middlebrook pointed out that other G.M. 10 plants are in similar situations.
To help assure a high level of quality and productivity at the new plant, the local union in 1987 agreed to reduce job classifications for hourly workers to 2, from 124, and for skilled workers to 10, from 17. The company installed 240 robots, compared with 2 at the old plant. Mr. Carroll said the so-called team concept, which allows flexibility in job rotation and puts more responsibility in the hands of workers, ''is working well, but we had it at the old plant, too; we just didn't have a name for it.''
Modern management concepts learned from Japanese auto makers are in evidence as well. For example, seats arrive only as needed, saving inventory expense, and are arranged ahead of time by the supplier in the precise sequence they are needed, saving time and obviating confusion.
While some historic tensions remain between managers and the union, both sides agree there is more mutual trust and respect. But they share a frustration that the car they build is not selling better.
''We have upgraded; I don't think there is a vast difference between our cars and the Japanese cars,'' said Tim Danahy, the plant's personnel director. ''What's happening to us brings home the competitive situation in this country. It's a damn fine car; we need more people to buy it.''

GRAPHIC: Incomplete Pontiac Grand Prix cars were left on the assembly line last Friday when General Motors closed its assembly plant in Fairfax, Kan., for two weeks. (NYT/David Hutson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (58%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; PONTIAC DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAIRFAX (KANSAS)

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); SALES; LABOR; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P



91 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Notes and Bonds Decline on Job Data

BYLINE: By H.J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds dropped and Treasury bill rates climbed yesterday, partly because of a larger-than-expected rise in nonfarm employment last month and partly because of a Congressional stalement over legislation that would raise the national debt ceiling.
Although many participants in the fixed-income market viewed the employment data as a statistical aberration, they believed the figures would preclude any easing of interest rates by the Federal Reserve in the near future.
Before the market opened, the Government announced that the number of nonfarm jobs increased by 233,000 in October, up from the rise of 201,000 reported the month before. Many economists expected a rise of no more than 150,000 jobs. 
''Aside from the suspect employment numbers, the Treasury securities market was also unsettled by the ongoing stalemate over raising the national debt ceiling,'' said Leif H. Olsen, who heads an economic consulting and money-management firm bearing his name in New Canaan, Conn. ''Unless the debt-ceiling wrangle is resolved over the weekend, there may not be any auctions of T-bills, much less the mid-quarter refunding sales scheduled for next week.''
Expecting that Congress would raise the debt ceiling from its current level of $2.87 trillion before Monday, the Treasury had planned to auction $16 billion of bills at its weekly sale on Monday, up from $15.6 billion last week. The scheduled refunding auctions include one for $10.25 billion of three-year notes on Tuesday; one for $10 billion of 10-year notes on Wednesday, and one for $10 billion of 30-year bonds on Thursday.
 
Lack of Guidelines Seen
 Even if the debt ceiling is raised by Monday, Mr. Olsen said, dealers and other potential bidders will be without the benefit of pre-selling guidelines. Normally, Treasury securities dealers discuss coming sales with their expected customers and acquire a sense of the market value of the securities after they are auctioned.
Nor did the bond market have the benefit of observing Japanese trading patterns, because virtually all financial institutions were closed in Japan yesterday in observance of Culture Day, a national holiday.
As for the October employment data released yesterday morning, Mr. Olsen noted that the 233,000 increase included a rise of 95,000 jobs in local government. He said: ''Many of us believe the local government jobs consist mainly of teachers and others involved in eduation who returned to their jobs in September, but were not tallied until October. If so, we can expect the October numbers to be substantially revised downward next month.''
Largely as a result of these uncertainties, the benchmark Treasury long bonds, the 8 1/8 percent issue maturing in 2019, were being offered late in the session at 102 7/32, down 22/32. The yield rose to 7.93 percent, from 7.86 percent the day before; the yield was 7.84 percent a week earlier. In Chicago, the spot December Treasury bond futures contract closed at 99.8, down 19/32 on the day.
Among other representative Treasury issues traded in the secondary market, the new 7 5/8 percent notes of 1991 fell 12/32, to 99 11/32, for a yield of 7.99 percent; the 8 percent notes of 1996 dropped 17/32, to 100 7/32, with a yield of 7.96 percent, and the long notes, the 8's of 1999, declined 16/32, or a half-point, to 100 8/32, and now yield 7.96 percent.
 
Bill Rates Climb
 Uncertainty over the Treasury bill auctions on Monday contributed to a rise in rates. The discount rate on 90-day bills rose 10 basis points, to 7.83 percent; six-month bills climbed 17 basis points, to 7.69 percent, and the one-year bills closed up 17 basis points, at 7.48 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
With the Federal Reserve refraining from money-market operations, the Federal funds rate traded unchanged for most of the day at 8.75 percent, before easing to 8 11/16 percent at the close. That rate is what banks charge each other for temporary loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); DEBT CEILING (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (61%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J



92 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up Slightly in U.S. After Posting Loss Overseas

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar turned in a mixed performance in domestic trading yesterday, finishing slightly higher against several currencies.
Gold prices fell in New York after rising overseas. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery slipped $1.90 an ounce, to $378.50. 
The dollar rose on foreign exchange markets worldwide after the Labor Department reported that American employment figures for October were stronger than had been expected.
The report that nonfarm payroll employment rose by 233,000 last month, compared with a growth of only about 150,000 forecast by economists, suggested that the economy had unexpected strength and that the Federal Reserve would not move immediately to encourage lower interest rates.
''The market was sort of stunned,'' said Robert Ryan, the vice president of foreign exchange trading at the Bank of New York.
But after an hour of frantic dollar buying, activity slowed and the currency began falling, finishing in Europe at levels mostly lower than had been reached late on Thursday.
''The market's initial reaction to the jobs data was positive, but once the market analyzed the data, we realized they still indicated a weak economy,'' a London currency dealer said.
Mr. Ryan said rumors also arose that Japanese officials might raise interest rates to support the yen, and the speculation hurt the dollar and other currencies.
The dollar posted some late gains in New York, Mr. Ryan said, as the traders balanced their positions before the weekend.
In late New York trading, the dollar slipped to 143.25 yen, from 143.43 yen late on Thursday. The dollar gained against the pound, which fell to $1.5685, from $1.5695.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with those of late Thursday, included: 1.8467 West German marks, up from 1.8423; 6.2630 French francs, up from 6.2490; 1.6205 Swiss francs, up from 1.6162; 1,356.50 Italian lire, up from 1,354.75, and 1.1723 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1732.
On the Comex, silver for current delivery fell by 2.8 cents an ounce, to $5.227.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); GERMAN MARK (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); 



93 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. PLANS ACTION ON AN ANIMAL DRUG

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
The Food and Drug Administration is moving against a widely used, powerful animal drug because it contaminates supplies of milk and pork. The F.D.A. could either ban the drug outright or impose dosage limits that would make it impractical to use.
The Government's plan to eliminate the drug, sulfamethazine, from the food supply is prompted by new results from animal studies providing clearer evidence than ever before that sulfamethazine causes cancerous tumors of the thyroid glands of rats and mice. These findings come 14 years after scientists at the Federal agency and the Department of Agriculture identified illegally high residues of the drug in pork as a threat to consumers.
 
'Black Crepe' for Drug
''We are proceeding on the basis that this compound causes tumors,'' said Dr. Gerald B. Guest, director of the Center for Veterinary Medicine at the F.D.A. ''We have several steps to complete, but I expect that in six months we will propose to withdraw this drug from the market. You can hang out the black crepe for sulfamethazine.'' 
Manufacturers of sulfamethazine, which has annual sales of about $60 million in the United States, said they disagreed with the Government's interpretation of the animal studies and would oppose the change in policy when it is made official, probably by next spring.
Representatives of the milk and pork industries and most veterinarians say that sulfamethazine is safe at the levels now found in food.
''Sulfa drugs have been used in human medicine since the 1930's,'' said Fred Gutzmann, a marketing manager at the American Cyanamid Company in Wayne, N.J., a large distributor of medicated mixtures for feed and water that contain sulfamethazine.
''The effect that is seen in the rodent studies is something that would not occur and does not occur in humans even with direct use under long-term therapeutic use. We don't think there is any science that justifies the F.D.A. removing this product from the market.''
Representatives of the milk and pork industries note that alternatives to sulfamethazine are available. But eliminating the drug would make livestock farming more difficult by forcing growers to change their procedures. In addition, the alternative drugs could increase the cost to livestock producers, although they might not pass the added cost along because there are many other factors bearing on prices for consumers.
The animal and drug industries are planning to fight the F.D.A. move, not only because of the cost to livestock producers and the value of the drug sales, but because they fear the Government could move against all sulfa drugs used in raising livestock.
To speed growth and prevent respiratory diseases small amounts of sulfamethazine (pronounced sul-fah-METH-eh-zeen) are mixed into feed or water for many of the 90 million pigs raised each year in the United States. Dairy farmers most often administer the drug to cows in the form of a large pill, or bolus, to treat diseases of the lungs and cure hoof infections.
 
Any Level in Milk Is Barred
The Government prohibits sulfamethazine residues in pork products from exceeding 100 parts per billion and prohibits any level of the drug in milk.
Sulfamethazine, an anti-bacterial compound, was smong a handful of animal drugs introduced in the late 1940's and 1950's that helped to transform the structure of American livestock farms. Because it is inexpensive and effective against an array of diseases in hogs and cattle, sulfamethazine made it possible for farmers to improve the economic efficiency of producing meat and milk by closing down outdoor corrals and confining large numbers of infection-prone animals in production houses and feeding pens.
The issue now is whether sulfamethazine is itself a carcinogen or produces physiological changes in rodents that lead to cancerous tumors. Steve Kimbel, a spokesman for the Animal Health Institute, the trade group for the $2.5 billion-a-year animal drug industry, said some scientists who have reviewed the new studies say high levels of sulfamethazine administered to the rodents caused the pituitary glands to produce higher levels of a hormone that stimulated the thyroid, producing the cancerous lesions.
 
High Doses Called Factor
Mr. Kimbel said the industry was prepared to argue in Federal hearings that rodents are prone to such lesions when exposed to high concentrations of sulfamethazine. But when exposed to low levels of the drug, the lesions do not appear in the rodents and they would not appear in people, said Mr. Kimbel and other industry executives.
The long regulatory history of sulfamethazine is the latest illustration of the difficulty Federal agencies are having in untangling the web of scientific, political and economic issues before toxic substances can be eliminated from the food supply.
In almost every case, the most difficult conflict to resolve is the actual hazard posed by the substance versus its usefulness to farmers. The conflict is a little easier for the Food and Drug Administration because the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the law that regulates animal drugs, directs that if a substance is determined to be unsafe and is found in food, it must be withdrawn from use.
In 1975, the Department of Agriculture and the Food and Drug Administration discovered that 15 percent of all pork sold in the United States contained residues of sulfamethazine that exceeded the Federal safety limit. The Government began a program to warn farmers they were in violation of the law and to teach others how to be more careful in using the drug.
 
Violations Reduced
The problem persisted in the 1980's, although violations found in pork samples that were tested were reduced to 1 percent this year from 5.3 percent in 1985, according to the F.D.A. The declining levels, though, were not low enough to satisfy the Japanese, who threatened last year to halt purchases of American pork because of sulfamethazine residues. Japan and the United States began a program to screen pork to be shipped to Asia.
The lower levels did not calm state officials either. In Iowa, the center of the nation's $9.1 billion pork industry, 47 of the 41,000 farms that raise hogs were investigated by the State Department of Agriculture after the discovery of illegal amounts of the drug in pork.
In March 1988, the F.D.A. was jolted again when it discovered sulfamethazine residues in 5 of 49 samples of milk collected from 10 cities. Despite education campaigns and warnings from the Government, some dairy farmers continue to sell the milk of cows treated with the drug even though it is illegal to have any level of sulfamethazine in dairy products. The problem was halted after the farmers stopped adding the milk of the cows being treated to regular milk supplies.
 
Contaminated Milk in California
California, the nation's second largest milk producer behind Wisconsin, has been one of the most aggressive states in regulating violators. On Oct. 10, state inspectors discovered contaminated milk on a large dairy farm in Riverside County near Los Angeles and ordered the farm to destroy 3,300 gallons. It was the third time in a year that the California Department of Food and Agriculture had ordered a farm to dump contaminated milk, said Leon H. Jensen, the state's dairy program coordinator.
Health specialists said sulfamethazine can produce minor allergic reactions in a small percentage of the population exposed to it. The more serious problem is the research indicating the drug could cause cancer, Dr. Guest said.
''I don't think there is a serious direct public health threat,'' Dr. Guest said. ''There has been a long history of use in man. But there is a study of sulfamethazine that resulted in tumors and that's a problem. We have a law that says if you have a drug that causes tumors in animals you have to treat it ultraconservatively.''
The latest test results grew out of cancer studies begun by the F.D.A. in 1980 at the National Center for Toxicological Research in Jefferson, Ark. The long-term studies involved feeding rats and mice varying doses of sulfamethazine over two years to determine the drug's potential to cause tumors. In 1981, the first studies were halted after researchers discovered errors in the dosages fed to the rodents. A year later, new studies were begun that were completed and published in April and May.
Dr. Guest said the evidence was now strong enough to remove sulfamethazine from the market, but Government regulations require hearings and public notices before that final step is taken. The agency is waiting for the final assessment of the risk posed by the drug. Dr. Guest said that assessment might be ready by February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ACY (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CYANAMID CO (66%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); CENTER FOR VETERINARY MEDICINE (56%); CENTER FOR VETERINARY MEDICINE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK; MEAT; DAIRY PRODUCTS; SULFAMETHAZINE (DRUG); MILK; CANCER; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; THYROID GLAND; CANCER; RATS; MICE; FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); RODENTS (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); VETERINARY DRUGS (90%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (90%); MAMMALOGY (90%); CANCER (90%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); DAIRY FARMING (89%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (89%); PORK (89%); ANIMALS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); MAMMALS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (75%); PRODUCT RECALLS (74%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); SALES FIGURES (71%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (59%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (59%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH



94 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2160 words

HEADLINE: IN THEIR FIRST DEBATE, DINKINS AND GIULIANI GO AT IT, GENTLY

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
David N. Dinkins and Rudolph W. Giuliani mirrored the messages of their candidacies in largely gentle but unrelenting jousting last night in the first of two televised debates on the final weekend of their New York City mayoral campaign.
Mr. Dinkins, his characteristic deliberateness punctuated by several carefully aimed barbs, declared that ''what we need is a mayor, not a prosecutor,'' and said Mr. Giuliani ''doesn't like to admit he's a Republican.''
Mr. Giuliani, slightly stiff in the second debate of his political career, countered that he represented the best chance for change - ''I'm the reformer,'' he said - and was the best equipped to combat crime and drug addiction.
He painted Mr. Dinkins as a candidate of the past and said: ''People usually don't run for mayor of the City of New York who haven't paid their taxes for four years. People don't usually run for mayor of New York who are involved in so many violations of the law and ethical duties.'' 
 
Another Debate Today
Mr. Dinkins, the Democratic nominee, and Mr. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal candidate, fielded eight questions during their hourlong debate on WABC-TV. They were joined by Henry Hewes, the Right to Life Party candidate, who will also participate in today's second and last debate at 11 A.M. on WNBC-TV.
The candidates touted what they consider their strenghths - for Mr. Giuliani, his experience as a Federal prosecutor and his political independence, for Mr. Dinkins his government experience. They also responded to perceived weaknesses - with Mr. Giuliani saying he was as compassionate as anyone else and Mr. Dinkins insisting that ''I'm no one's man but my own.''
Echoing another theme of his campaign, Mr. Dinkins repeatedly said that Mr. Giuliani did not want to say ''the R-word - he doesn't like to admit he's a Republican.''
Mr. Hewes said both his debate rivals ''stand for the status quo.'
 
'No One Has a Monopoly'
The first question - asked of Mr. Giuliani - touched on a delicate issue in the contest: how to foster racial harmony.
Mr. Giuliani, looking a bit wary but speaking in even, measured tones, repeated a theme he has sounded often in his campaign, saying, ''No one person has a monopoly on that.''
He said he favored an expanded city youth corps to provide college scholarships to young people, who would then be required to work for the city for a time. He said he would make sure his administration reflected the city's diversity.
''I think I would have a particular responsibility, given the nature of this election, to make sure that that occurred, and I'm committed to it,'' Mr. Giuliani said.
Mr. Dinkins, in his response, said it was ''important that we have role models that young people understand.'' Mr. Hewes said New York ''must see itself as a very pluralistic city.''
Mr. Giuliani responded that ''talking about unity and healing is important'' but that ''what we need to do is move this city forward again and not just talk about general platitudes.'' If crime continues to increase, he said, ''then we're actually going to have more disunity and disharmony.''
 
Tax Issue Raised Again
Mr. Dinkins was asked whether the voters should take his financial problems into consideration when assessing his managerial abilities, including his failure to file income tax returns for four years and the recent controversy surrounding his transfer of stock in a broadcasting and cable television company to his son, David Jr. ''No question about it,'' he said. ''The voters should look at my total record.''
His tax problems, Mr. Dinkins said, are ''something that occurred 20 years ago.''
''I apologized,'' he said. ''It is something that should not have happened.'' He later paid all taxes, interest and penalties.
Mr. Dinkins said there was nothing improper about the stock transfer and that he had held a long news conference detailing the transfer.
''When that was over,'' he said, ''the newspapers of this town, save one, endorsed David Dinkins with full knowledge of that.''
 
Hewes 'Not Happy' About Taxes'
Mr. Hewes said he was not ''happy that David did not pay his taxes'' but said he was nonetheless confident of Mr. Dinkins's integrity.
Mr. Giuliani said the two men were ''running almost like a ticket here.'' Then he attacked. ''One issue that is probably more important is character and integrity of the person who is going to run this city for the next four years,'' Mr. Giuliani said.
He accused Mr. Dinkins of a cover-up regarding the stock transfer and demanded that Mr. Dinkins release his stock records.
 
Old Patterns Resurface
Asked about the problems facing New York City schools, Mr. Giuliani chided Mr. Dinkins for not wanting to criticize the Board of Education, while Mr. Dinkins said the Republican-controlled New York Senate had failed to give city schools their fair share of state education aid.
The two major candidates were vague on how they would tackle the crisis that all three candidates agreed exists in city schools. Mr. Giuliani said he would trim the bureaucracy and enforce drug-free zones around the schools. Mr. Dinkins pointed to what he called his own ''fine accomplishments in the field of education,'' without being specific.
Halfway through the debate, Mr. Dinkins threw out his two main accusations against Mr. Giuliani. First, he teased him, saying he hated the ''R-word,'' and linking him to the Republican administration in Washington, which he called the source of the city's homeless problem.
''Mr. Giuliani does not like to admit that he is a Republican,'' said Mr. Dinkins. ''He gets annoyed when I call him a Republican.''
Mr. Dinkins then zeroed in on his opponent for what he characterized as his prosecutorial zeal when he served as United States Attorney for Manhattan. ''He is a prosecutor, and I appreciate that as prosecutor he has behaved rather zealously,'' he said.
 
Comfortable With Crime
Mr. Giuliani was perhaps most comfortable dealing with the subject he knows most about: crime. ''I'm glad you asked that question,'' he said when one of the panelists asked him how he would fight crime and drugs.
He ticked off a long list of proposals, saying, ''If we keep going merrily along, this city's going down.''
Mr. Giuliani said the city should attack drug trafficking as a business, arrest more drug buyers, reduce police overtime pay by improving arrest booking procedures, and press the Legislature for a death penalty and a better law to seize the property of drug dealers.
''We're going to have to start arresting people who buy drugs,'' he said. ''It's a misdemeanor; it won't overcrowd our prisons, but it'll send a message.''
Mr. Dinkins repeated his pledge to double the number of community patrol police officers in his first term, and to place a police officer on every subway train 24 hours a day. Using notes to cite dates, he criticized Mr. Giuliani for intially calling the death penalty a ''phony issue'' in the race and then later emphasizing it.
Mr. Giuliani, in his rebuttal, faulted Mr. Dinkins's proposal for putting police officers on subway trains, saying two-thirds of subway crime occurs on platforms and in stations.
On a question about how to solve the city's budget gap, Mr. Giuliani said the city needed to refinance bonds and increase the efficiency of collection of money owed the city from fines, while Mr. Dinkins also called for greater effiency in government.
 
Many Major Problems
Mr. Dinkins was asked about what he will tell New Yorkers fed up with crime, dirty streets and the lack of housing, to get them to stay in the city.
Mr. Dinkins said crime and drugs are a major problem. But housing and homelessness is also ''a serious problem.''
''Not only for humane considerations because those are God's children too that we see lying about, but almost to recognize that it adversely impacts tourism, for instance,'' Mr. Dinkins said.
''We have homeless because of poverty and lack of affordable housing,'' he said. ''Why do we have lack of affordable housing? Republican friends who slashed the budget from some $31 billion down to under seven.''
 
'Has to Get Control'
Mr. Giuliani said crime was the most important issue facing the city.
''You have to deal with first things first,'' he said. ''New York City has to reduce crime. It has to get control of the drug problem.''
Until that happens, Mr. Giuliani said, the city's problems will continue to fester.
The two candidates tried to use their closing statements to correct what were perceived as the flaws of their candidacies. Mr. Giuliani, burdened with the image of the severe prosecutor, began to smile as he delivered his final remarks, and offered his thanks from each member of his family, even listing his infant daughter, Caroline.
Mr. Dinkins, who is repeatedly asked to explain away the views of his associates, past and present, ended with a vow to be ''no one's man but my own.''
Mr. Giuliani said his mayoralty would represent a real break with the past. He said he is ''not satisfied'' with the New York of 1989, and linked the boarded-up buildings and other signs of economic devastation in New York city to the corruption that has dogged the Democratic administration in City Hall in recent years.
Mr. Dinkins, reading a prepared statement, used general phrases that asked New Yorkers ''to stand up for our beliefs,'' and appealed to the city's tradition of tolerance. ''I want to be a mayor who reaches for what is best in our instincts and in our hearts,'' he said. ''I want to be mayor for everyone.''
 
'In the Mood' Greets Dinkins
Both Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Giuliani arrived at the WABC studio on the Upper West Side nearly an hour before the debate began. Mr. Dinkins was greeted outside the studio by more than 100 supporters, who chanted his name as the big-band hit ''In the Mood'' played on a loudspeaker.
Mr. Dinkins said he felt no butterflies, and he appeared rested and confident, having found time to nap for two hours before the debate, he said.
Mr. Giuliani had addressed Hispanic ministers on the Lower East Side and white Catholics at a Knights of Columbus hall in the Marine Park section of Brooklyn earlier in the day.
Mr. Dinkins continued yesterday to wrap himself in a cocoon of prominent Democrats. Today, he is to attend a teachers union breakfast, rallies on the Lower East Side and in Queens, and a fund-raising event in Harlem.
He was formally embraced yesterday by the United States Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine, and Senator Daniel P. Moynihan of New York, Mayor Raymond J. Flynn of Boston, and Representatives Eliot L. Engel of the Bronx, Floyd H. Flake and Thomas J. Manton of Queens, Charles B. Rangel of Manhattan, and Charles E. Schumer and Edolphus Towns of Brooklyn.
 
Giuliani Lagging in Polls
Mr. Mitchell said, ''At a time when the differences between people are being exploited, at a time when division and hatred rule throughout the world on racial, ethnic and other lines, what we need are leaders who ask and reach for the best in people, who can bring people together.'' He asked voters to view the mayoral race as a referendum on negative campaigning, in which, he suggested, the Republicans had indulged.
Mr. Giuliani has been lagging 10 or more points behind Mr. Dinkins in every public opinion poll made public in the final week of the campaign. Worse still for Mr. Giuliani, the polls indicated that Mr. Dinkins had slowed or even stopped the Democratic defections that appeared to have been prompted by revelations about his stock holdings and his campaign staff, which had kept him on the defensive for much of last month.
Within about 15 minutes last night -roughly the time allotted to each candidate for answers, rebuttals and a closing statement - Mr. Giuliani needed to accomplish in person what he hoped his television commercials have been achieving: rattling Mr. Dinkins just enough so that his calm facade crumbled and exposed what Mr. Giuliani contends are flaws in judgment, character and competence.
Jabbing too hard, even Mr. Giuliani's advisers acknowledged, would be risky. A withering assault, the kind Mr. Giuliani perfected as a Federal prosecutor, reinforces his reputation among some people as mean-spirited and fails to demonstrate his compassion.
 
'Has to Remain Standing'
For Mr. Dinkins, the stakes were smaller.
''He has to remain standing,'' said Andrew Cuomo, the Governor's son and a Dinkins adviser.
''Dinkins has one asset,'' said Mark Green, another adviser. ''He's invariably been underestimated.''
Mr. Dinkins had insisted that debate invitations be extended to all four candidates of the regular parties - those whose mayoral candidates automatically qualified for the November ballot because the party's gubernatorial candidate received at least 50,000 votes in the last election. Mr. Giuliani wanted one-on-one debates with Mr. Dinkins.

GRAPHIC: Rudolph W. Giuliani and David N. Dinkins after the mayoral debate at the WABC-TV studios in Manhattan looking at Mr. Giuliani's family photographs, held by his wife, Donna Hanover. (NYT/Ruby Washington)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; DEBATING; TELEVISION POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); MAYORS (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (54%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (50%); RACE & RACISM (50%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; HEWES, HENRY; ROBERTS, SAM RUDY GIULIANI (93%); 



95 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL/3-22

 
At least a half million East Germans jammed the heart of the East German capital for the largest rally of what one speaker called a ''revolution from below.'' Page 1

 
More East Germans may now go West, envoys in Prague say 16

 
The Soviet public is pessimistic about President Gorbachev's economic program and confused about whether to continue it, a poll shows. 1

 
The contra movement has changed as military power has shift to young Nicaraguans who have spent years in combat. They have little in common with the movement's politicians and C.I.A.-picked soldiers. 16

 
Mexican President's use of army draws concern 13

 
Uruguay voters look at economy 14

 
As projects crumble, Brazil is thinking small 8

 
Israelis are blaming the uprising more and more for economic troubles. Israel is entering its 11th month of deep recession. 22

 
Move to dissolve Lebanese Parliament imperils accord 22

 
Iran opens ex-U.S. embassy 3

 
Ethiopia's renewal of ties with Israel after a 16-year break signals recognition that Ethiopia is allowing emigration of Ethiopian Jews to Israel. 4
 
Days before Namibian vote, U.N. chief sees hope and peril 5

 
A new legal opinion on the U.S. role in backing violent coups was recently completed the Justice Department. Congressional intelligence committees will review the document. 1 
 
 
U.S. thinks twice about Armenian measure 10

 
The grand master of Greek music, Mikis Theodorakis, was once seen as a heroic Communist. Now he's a ambassador of Greek conservatism. 3

 
French-speaking Quebecers worry less about population 6

 
British aide urges I.R.A. talks 5

 
Hiring of women by U.N. falls short of goal 12

 
NATIONAL/24-35

 
News analysis: The five Senators defending their aid to a savings and loan appear to be using a broadened definition of ''constituent service.'' 24

 
The F.D.A. is moving against a drug used on animals because it contaminates milk and pork supplies. The agency could ban the drug or impose prohibitive limits on its dosage. 1

 
Whether to award a Jewish veteran the Medal of Honor for an extraordinary World War II feat will be decided this month. Some believe that anti-Semitism blocked the award. 1

 
Questions about the Nimitz Freeway in Oakland are being raised more than two weeks after an earthquake caused it to crumple onto rush hour traffic, claiming at least 41 lives. 28

 
Local elections to be held Tuesday will choose governors in New Jersey and Virginia and mayors in scores of cities from Seattle to New York. 24

 
The finding that a gun turret blast on the battleship Iowa was probably the deliberate act of a sailor is drawing criticism from Congress and relatives of the sailors who died. 32

 
Officials view a recent string of Navy accidents as random 32

 
Twenty artists and art supporters who advise the National Endowment for the Arts grappled with issues like pornography, the Mapplethorpe show and new rules on Federal money. 25

 
A bird has been raiding fish farms in the Mississippi Delta, causing larges losses for farmers. But little can be done because the double-crested cormorant is a protected species. 24

 
Bush says he plans to keep Quayle on '92 ticket 30

 
Justice Dept. rights position may stay empty until '90 34

 
F.B.I. will purge files on names of protesters 31

 
U.S. and Soviet sisters meet 32

 
REGIONAL/36-56

 
New York's biggest drug seizure was made by the Federal authorities. By 5 P.M. Sunday, officials had found 4,400 pounds of cocaine packed in drums of chemicals in Long Island City. 1

 
In the first Dinkins-Giuliani debate, the New York City mayoral candidates mirrored the messages of their campaigns in gentle jousting. 1

 
Mayoral candidates' ads reflect their different styles 51

 
Giuliani and Dinkins incomes put them in city's top 2% 51

 
A Southampton sex scandal has given the Long Island village the feel of a Peyton Place. Last week, Dr. Rodney Thorp Wood and his wife Nancy pleaded guilty to prostitution and were fined $2,500 each. 36
 
Compromise on Grumman's jet is welcomed on Long Island 33

 
Milk consumers paid a record price of 75 cents per quart in New York City and northern New Jersey in October. They will pay even more by the end of the year, experts say. 36

 
A limit on how many medical visits the publicly insured poor in New York can make to a hospital or clinic goes into effect next week. Doctors at a Brooklyn clinic say they are already seeing negative effects. 36

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); ARMENIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); COUPS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ARMIES (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); EARTHQUAKES (50%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (50%); 

PERSON: MIKIS THEODORAKIS (54%); 



96 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: MORE AIR ROUTES FOR U.S. AND JAPAN

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4

 BODY:
Japan and the United States have reached agreement on a major expansion of airplane flights between the two countries, the Bush Administration said today.
The agreement, initialed at 5:30 A.M. Sunday in Tokyo after six days of intensive negotiations, will open new cities in both countries to flights by American and Japanese airlines.
Secretary of Transportation Samuel K. Skinner, in a statement, called the agreement ''the most dramatic expansion of air services to Japan since the original bilateral aviation agreement was signed in 1952.'' 
International air service is governed by agreements between pairs of nations, with each country awarding the right to fly on agreed routes to one or more of its domestic airlines.
Until the new agreement is formally ratified and route assignments made, it will not be entirely clear what airlines will serve which cities.
 
Pacific a Growing Market
The agreement opens up substantial new markets for airlines that are eager to take part in the most rapidly growing international air market, the Pacific region.
Mr. Skinner also said the agreement, coming at a time of continued tension over trade issues between the two nations, ''reflects the strength of our friendship with Japan and the importance of our economic alliance.''
The agreement covers both passenger and cargo flights, and increases the frequency of flights along existing routes, the number of cities that can be served, and the ability of airlines to make one-stop flights within the two countries.
Under the agreement, United States airlines will be able to operate along new routes between three American cities and Tokyo. They will also be given new routes from three American cities to Japanese cities other than Tokyo or Osaka.
 
New Routes to 3 U.S. Cities
Japanese airlines will gain routes from Tokyo to three new American cities, and from cities other than Tokyo or Osaka to three American cities.
The Japanese airlines will also be permitted to add one-stop continuing service to three other American cities.
And existing service by Japan Air Lines' on the Tokyo-Seattle-Chicago route will increase in frequency from five to seven flights each week.
David Prosperi, a Transportation Department spokesman, said that six American air carriers now fly between the United States and Japan, and that three Japanese airlines serve the United States.
He said the new agreement was expected to result in a 30 percent increase in flights between the two countries.
 
New Cargo Service Planned
In addition to the new passenger routes, the agreement included many provisions for new cargo air service.
While most consumers are unaware of the cargo flights, they are an important and growing market.
The United States wil be allowed to designate an additional all-cargo airline for service to japan. A currently designated all-cargo airline will be authorized to serve an additional point in Japan, chosen from three cities: Nagoya, Fukuoka or Sapporo.
The current quota of 300 annual charter flights, many of them for cargo, will be increased to 400 immediately and to as many as 450 beginning next year.
Japanese airlines will be allowed to operate eight weekly cargo flights to Chicago, and NCA, a Japanese all-cargo airline, will be allowed to serve Los Angeles and Chicago for the first time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9201 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); OSAKA, JAPAN (91%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JAPAN AIRLINES CO LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIR SERVICE (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); AIR FREIGHT (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR SAMUEL KNOX 'SAMUEL K' SKINNER (72%); 



97 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 21, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Shanghai's Mayor Gains Credit as Pragmatist

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SHANGHAI

 BODY:
When a foreigner asks young Chinese to name the leaders that they respect, the usual response is a long silence. But a few names do spark some enthusiasm, and one that comes up most regularly is Zhu Rongji, the boss of Shanghai.
Mr. Zhu, a lean 61-year-old economic planner by background, has won a reputation as a pragmatist and a tireless promoter of Shanghai's economic development. He is seen as more concerned with economic results than with Communist orthodoxy, and thus somewhat out of tune with the central Government. That is a reputation that does him no harm with most people. 
''He's not a hard-liner, like the ones in Beijing,'' said a junior high school teacher here. ''He's really trying to help Shanghai.''
Mr. Zhu's career has soared in the last two years, and many diplomats and Chinese believe that he will earn a Politburo seat in the next year or two. It is customary for the head of China's largest city to serve on the Politburo, although this would be a big step for a man who now is only an alternate member of the Central Committee.
Mr. Zhu became Mayor of Shanghai in April 1988, and this August he assumed the additional post of Shanghai party chief. He succeeded Jiang Zemin, now the national party leader, the man whom China's senior leader, Deng Xiaoping, has picked to be the core of the next generation of leaders.
A fluent English speaker whose son is a university student in Wisconsin, Mr. Zhu has been struggling to bring new vigor to this dilapidated city of more than 12 million people. One of his first actions was to order tourism officials to arrange for all the public toilets in the city to be cleaned.
He has also struggled to attract more foreign investment to Shanghai, a particularly difficult task since the crackdown in June. Just a few weeks ago, the city announced the formation of a committee of foreign business executives to give the city special counsel.
''Shanghai seems to be getting a bit more business these days than Beijing,'' a Western executive in China said, and one explanation may be the stark contrast in leadership styles in each city. The leaders of Beijing, Party Secretary Li Ximing and Mayor Chen Xitong, are political hard-liners who vigorously denounced the democracy movement.
Mr. Zhu, on the other hand, has said very little about ideology. Just a few days ago, in one of his first major speeches since the crackdown, he called for continued economic restructuring.
Intellectuals and workers interviewed in Shanghai gave Mr. Zhu high marks for his handling of the democracy movement, and several contrasted the leniency here with the violence in Beijing.
 
Use of Troops Avoided
After the bloodshed in the capital on June 4, Shanghai erupted with demonstrations and a virtual general strike. Mr. Zhu responded with a nationally televised speech on June 8, avoiding polemics but appealing for stability and order as the way to get the economy moving.
He said the city would never call in troops; instead, civil servants were sent into the streets to clear the blockades, in as calm a way as possible.
One reason for Mr. Zhu's handling of the demonstrations may be his own painful experience beginning with the anti-rightist campaign of 1957. He was then accused of being a rightist, based on a brief speech he made criticizing aspects of the Communist system. He was officially rehabilitated only in 1979. He rose rapidly to become deputy minister of the State Economic Commission, and in 1988 he was transferred to Shanghai. A native of Hunan Province, he has proven popular here even though he cannot speak the Shanghai dialect.
One of Shanghai's most serious problems is its inability to get raw materials to run its factories, and Mr. Zhu recently made a remarkable trip to coal-producing parts of the country to plead for coal and other raw materials. The trip involved some loss of face, but it conveyed the image of a leader willing to do whatever is necessary for the city, residents say.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (95%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF; SHANGHAI (CHINA)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); POLITICS (69%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); 

PERSON: ZHU RONGJI (MAYOR); KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D JIANG ZEMIN (54%); DENG XIAOPING (54%); 



98 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 33, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: COMPROMISE ON JET IS WELCOMED ON L.I.

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BETHPAGE, L.I., Nov. 3

 BODY:
An unusual compromise agreement in Congress to build 18 F-14 fighter jets on Long Island before the program is canceled buys time to reduce the Island's dependence on defense spending, officials and business leaders officials said today.
In April, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney announced that the Pentagon had eliminated financing for the F-14D Tomcat, the largest contract for Long Island's largest employer, the Grumman Corporation. Canceling production could have meant the loss of 5,600 jobs at Grumman and more than 15,000 jobs in other related businesses on Long Island, economists said.
But on Thursday, House and Senate negotiators gave Grumman a reprieve, agreeing to buy 18 new Navy planes in the 1990 fiscal year at a cost of about $1 billion. In exchange, Grumman must promise to end F-14 production when the last jet is delivered, probably in two or three years. 
The agreement eased fears of an immediate economic reversal. ''Economic growth will slow, but instead of a jolt, it will now be a soft landing,'' said Thomas Conoscenti, an economist at Polytechnic University in Farmingdale.
 
Six-Month Campaign
Despite the highly unusual provision for eventual elimination of the program, the compromise marks a victory for Long Island's Congressional delegation, which waged a six-month all-out campaign to save the program.
Lawmakers played down the ominous-sounding termination clause, contending that the Navy's planned replacement plane for the F-14 is far behind schedule, and that more new F-14's may be needed to fill the gap.
''No Congress can bind a future Congress,'' said Representative George J. Hochbrueckner, Democrat of Coram. He is a former Grumman engineer who worked on the F-14 program.
There were sighs of relief today at Grumman headquarters here. The company has cut its work force on the Island by 6,000 to 19,000 in the last three years, largely because of the elimination of the A-6 bomber program and a general decline in Government spending on the military.
 
Remaining Competitive
''It's too early to celebrate, but we can all be pleased at the progress being made,'' the Grumman chairman, John O'Brien, said in a statement.
The compromise package must still clear the Congressional appropriations process, as well as the full House and Senate, before it reaches President Bush. But officials in Washington and Long Island said they did not anticipate any snags.
Aerospace analysts said the agreement gave Grumman time to continue to diversify into products like advanced airborne radars, computer data systems and electronic monitoring programs. At the same time, they said, it would allow the company to position itself to remain competitive if the Navy's proposed advanced tactical fighter plane is delayed. The F-14 program accounts for about 20 percent of Grumman's annual sales of $3.6 billion.
For the broader Long Island economy, the agreement staves off a bumpy period. In the last decade, defense spending has been a shrinking part of the Island's manufacturing base, accounting for 6 percent of all jobs here now compared with 15 percent 10 years ago, the chief economist for the Island's Regional Planning Board, Pearl M. Kamer, said.
''This gives the Long Island economy a couple more years to adjust to more fundamental problems,'' said Representative Thomas J. Downey, Democrat of Amityville.
Long Island's Congressional delegation - which also includes Robert J. Mrazek, a Democrat, and Norman F. Lent and Raymond J. McGrath, both Republicans - used a two-pronged lobbying strategy. Advancing an argument for national security, the lawmakers stressed the need for the Navy to replace its aging planes.
Because Grumman has operations and subcontractors in virtually every state, the lawmakers also impressed upon their colleagues that a blow to Grumman on Long Island would strike a blow to jobs everywhere. In the process, the lawmakers called in every political favor owed to them. ''I am now chitless,'' said Mr. Downey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (84%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (84%); US NAVY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRUMMAN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY)

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); RADAR SYSTEMS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC DICK CHENEY (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



99 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 51, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Kean's Successor to Face Lean Times

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
New Jersey's new governor will inherit a state budget that has doubled to $12 billion in eight years but is now static and teetering on uncertain revenue projections.
Leaner economic times lie ahead, and it is generally acknowledged that Gov. Thomas H. Kean's successor will have little room to add expensive new programs unless he makes cuts in government and the budget that Mr. Kean and the Legislature have assembled since 1982.
In six budgets ending in 1987, New Jersey's spending increased an average of 9 percent a year, compared with average annual growth of 7.9 percent for all other states, according to the Washington-based Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.
In the 1987 fiscal year, New Jersey's spending was $3,034 per capita, compared to the average of $2,685 per capita for all states, according to the Tax Foundation Inc., a Washington group that studies government finance. Only five states - Alaska, Wyoming, New York, Minnesota and California -outspent New Jersey per capita. 
 
More Government Jobs
Jobs in the state's 19 departments have grown from about 58,000 to nearly 70,000 since Mr. Kean's first year, state budget officials said. About 10,000 of the 12,000 new positions, or about 83 percent, were created in the four departments that had the sharpest budget growth in the last eight years -the Department of Environmental Protection, up 170 percent; the Department of Corrections, up 159 percent; the Department of Law and Public Safety, up 127 percent, and the Department of Human Services, up 83 percent, according to the State Treasurer's office.
Of the $6.1 billion growth in state spending between mid-1982 and last July, state aid to schools accounted for the largest single portion, up $1.6 billion, or 26 percent of the total increase, the Treasurer's office said.
School aid is one of the fixed, formula-driven accounts that is taking larger portions of the state budget annually. Others include pensions for state workers and local police officers, firefighters and teachers; employee health and fringe benefits; Medicaid; welfare, and bonded debt service.
These fixed accounts consume 57 percent of the current budget.
In his budget message last January, the Governor warned that state spending for school aid, Medicaid, and pensions and health benefits could grow to two-thirds of the state budget by the year 2000, and, unless curbed, could start eroding spending for the environment, public transit, higher education and other programs.
But there is little movement for reform. And even though lawmakers held this year's $12 billion budget about even with last year's, there has been little criticism of the state's brisk spending rate this decade.
''In periods of enormous prosperity, governors and appropriation committees have a compulsive desire to spend monies that are there; that's the nature of government,'' said Bruce Coe, who heads the New Jersey Business and Industry Association.
 
Avoiding the Label of Big Spender
Despite the doubling of the budget, Mr. Kean has avoided the ''big spender'' label some attached to his predecessor, Brendan T. Byrne, who also saw the state budget double under him.
''Tom Kean's initiatives have been much more focused on symbolic improvements in the state,'' said Richard W. Roper, director of the Program for New Jersey Affairs at Princeton's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. Mr. Kean's principal themes have been improving the state's image, luring tourists, cutting corporate taxes to attract business and ''getting the state from under the shadow of New York and Philadelphia,'' Mr. Roper said.
But there have been some costly expansion programs, too.
Tougher new mandatory prison sentences this decade have led to construction of four state prisons, growth in daily inmate population to 20,000 from 8,000 in eight years and the hiring of nearly 4,000 corrections workers, mostly prison guards, state figures show. The prison budget has increased $291 million to $509 million.
The local school aid budget of $3.6 billion, up $1.6 billion since mid-1983, is exceeded by only six states.
The environmental department's operating budget has grown by $117.6 million to $197 million and its work force has grown by 1,400.
The human services budget, which includes $133 million in welfare payments this year and $865 million for Medicaid, has increased by $987 million, or 83.4 percent, and its staff has increased by 2,200 in the Kean years.
About 2,300 new jobs were created in the Department of Law and Public Safety to expand the state police force and staff the state's takeover of motor vehicle agencies.
But there is worry now that the rate of government expansion has outstripped the state economy's ability to pay for it. State unemployment has just climbed to 5 percent for the first time in three years. And there are already signs of slippage in revenues from sales, income and corporation taxes. Will Taxes Have to Be Raised? Richard V. Sinding, president of the Princeton-based Center for Analysis of Public Issues, believes that the new governor will be forced to raise taxes shortly after taking office.
The Democratic candidate, Representative James J. Florio, has complained that government has grown too big, and he has promised an audit to search for waste.
''He sees no need for new taxes,'' said Jon Shure, his spokesman.
His Republican opponent, Representative Jim Courter, has pledged not to raise taxes.

GRAPHIC: Representative James J. Florio, the Democratic gubernatorial candidate, with his wife, Lucinda, at a campaign stop yesterday at the Ocean County Mall in Toms River, N.J. (NYT/William E. Sauro); Representative Jim Courter talking with Alice Salzberg yesterday at the Vineland Shopping Center in Millville, N.J. (NYT/John Sotomayor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON GROUP-ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION (57%); ADVISORY COMMISSION ON INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); TRENDS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (REPR); COURTER, JIM (REPR); KEAN, THOMAS H (GOV); HANLEY, ROBERT JAMES A COURTER (90%); 



100 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 22, Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: VIDEO;
Dealers Bestow Their Laurels

BYLINE: By Hans Fantel

 BODY:
As an attempt to pinpoint superior design, it's rather like the Miss America contest. Dealers from every part of the United States vote for their favorites in video equipment, and this ballot forms the basis for the annual Grands Prix awarded by Audio-Video International, a major trade journal.
Three models are chosen in each category, and among bare-bones VCR's - i.e., the simplest and cheapest kind with monophonic sound with no pretensions to high fidelity - the winning three were Mitsubishi's HSU30R ($499), Panasonic's PV-4920 ($399) and RCA's VR450 ($399). Even though they are in the bottom price bracket, all have four separate magnetic heads rather than just two, as was the case in economy VCR's. The extra heads improve special effects, such as slow-motion or still-frame display. Mitsubishi's entry was cited for its elaborate provisions for finding a particular program segment on the tape, which is unusual in this price class. 
Panasonic's model is the only one in this group with bar-code programming. This allows the viewer to program the VCR for recording a broadcast during an absence simply by running a penlike sensor over printed program listings, provided that these listings include bar graphs. (Many of them do nowadays.) In addition, this model also offers several helpful simplifications in conventional programming, along with editing facilities and circuit refinements (such as a comb filter) to increase the clarity of the picture.
RCA's entry in this group stands out by its compactness. Only 14 5/8-inches wide, it fits in well with standard audio components in a combined audio-video installation.
Among VCR's equipped for stereo high-fidelity sound, the winners were Panasonic's PV-S4990 ($1,599), Sony's EDV-7500 ($1,950) and the JVC HR-S5000U ($1,299). Both Panasonic and JVC feature Super-VHS circuitry to achieve high image resolution of about 400 horizontal lines. This exceeds present-day television broadcast and cable transmission norms and and thus allows recording off the air (or off cable) with almost no loss of image quality.
Panasonic again features bar-code programming, and this particular model can also be programmed from afar, simply by calling it on the telephone. It responds like an answering machine, awaiting instructions to be issued through a telephone touch pad. Moreover, digital circuits are used to reduce the graininess of the image and to provide clear stills and steady slow-motion along with numerous other special effects. Indexing and quick-search devices make it easy to find a particular program segment on a tape. The JVC model also offers several convenient search and indexing methods, along with aids to editing .
The Sony is the only VCR among the Grand Prix winners that operates in the Beta format, which still has faithful adherents among videophiles intent on the best possible image quality. It will not play VHS tapes, but in the ED Beta mode (ED stands for Extended Definition) it achieves remarkable image sharpness with 500 lines of resolution - the best of any current VCR. It is therefore of particular interest to those who use their video equipment in a semiprofessional manner.
The growing demand for higher image quality has spurred interest in videodisk players, which offer a noticeably better picture than standard VHS cassettes. The swift expansion of the videodisk repertory has hastened public acceptance of this format, even though it has no recording functions and can only be used for playback.
The videodisk players mentioned here play not only all sizes of videodisks (12, 8 and 5 inches) but also handle standard (sound-only) CD records, which function on the same principle of scanning the recorded signal with a laser beam. The three winners in this group are the Philips CDV488 ($1,300), the Pioneer CLD3070 ($1,200) and the Yamaha CDV-1600 ($799).
Despite its more modest price, the Yamaha player offers excellent video quality and advanced audio circuitry featuring Yamaha's distinctive ''hi-bit'' technology to decode digital audio signals. What has been sacrificed to achieve the lower price is not basic performance but some of the special operating feeatures offered on the costlier Philips and Pioneer units.
For example, both Pioneer and Philips have a so-called jog-shuttle control. This allows the viewer to proceed stepwise from one still frame to the next either in forward or reverse direction. Moreover, the speed of the progression from frame to frame is continuously variable. A noteworthy asset of the Philips is its digital memory to store single frames, resulting in jitter-free stills and smooth slow-motion displays. Pioneer's distinction is its ability to play both sides of a videodisk without the need for manual reloading.
The video Grands Prix, like most contests of this kind, have their detractors. They point out that in a highly competitive field crowded with many entries of comparable merit, such awards are necessarily somewhat arbitrary. Yet there is no doubt that the winning models were thoughtfully chosen and clearly rank among the best.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6752 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (85%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: VICTOR CO OF JAPAN LTD (85%); PANASONIC CORP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: AUDIO-VIDEO INTERNATIONAL

SUBJECT: RECORDING EQUIPMENT; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); 

PERSON: FANTEL, HANS



101 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2253 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Buyout Bulge

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
The mergers and acquisitions movement that started to snowball in Europe three years ago has grown into an avalanche that is remaking the Continent's corporate landscape. That avalanche will likely continue to thunder as companies rush to prepare for the more competitive era that will result as the European Community scraps internal trade barriers by the end of 1992.
Nonetheless, the old world's takeover scene may never grow as frenzied as America's. While hostile takeovers are a way of life in freewheeling America, they disturb European gentility. The well-mannered Europeans prefer forming alliances to mounting hostile takeovers. They also have little appetite for ''junk bonds'' and leveraged buyouts.
Even so, many companies are expected to tender hostile bids, meaning the takeover climate in Europe could grow nastier. Acquisition-minded European companies began by snapping up small fry, but are now looking at bigger catches as they strain to compete with giants in America and Japan. 
''The pain level in restructuring will increase,'' said Martin Waldenstrom, chairman of Booz Allen Acquisition Services, a Paris-based merger consultant. ''A lot of small companies have been taken over; now you have to go to larger ones. They think they can remain independent, but they might not be able to. That means the hostility index will definitely go up over the next few years.''
Tensions are already mounting. Sir James Goldsmith's recent gargantuan $21 billion hostile bid for B.A.T. Industries, the British conglomerate, made even many people in London's financial district, where unfriendly offers are more common, question whether the takeover movement had reeled out of control. Nations that permit unfriendly bids are angry at others, most notably West Germany and Switzerland, where they are virtually verboten. And some American executives grumble that it is far easier for European companies to take over American companies than vice versa. Many European companies are off limits because they are state- or family-owned.
Feeding the tension is the rush by American investment banks to expand their merger and acquisition staffs in Europe. British and French investment banks have reacted by building up their own M. & A. operations, and some people now question whether there will be enough business.
''I predict a shakeout,'' said Philippe Haspeslagh, a professor at the Insead Business School in Fountainebleau, near Paris. ''Europeans will always rely less on investment bankers than Americans do because a larger portion of their activity will be done in-house and will not be hostile.''
Still, investment bankers claim there is plenty of work, at least for now. ''There will be a lot more activity throughout Western Europe as more companies concentrate on building up their core businesses,'' said Yves Istel, chairman of Wasserstein Perella International.
The takeover pace has indeed accelerated. In 1988 alone, there were close to 500 mergers and acquisitions within Europe, with the value of intra-European deals soaring to $81.5 billion last year, up from $11.1 billion in 1985. Cross-border mergers and acquisitions soared to 42.4 percent of all intra-European deals last year, up from 13.8 percent in 1985.
''The world is changing, and we have to do mergers and acquisitions to change with it,'' said Jean-Rene Fourtou, chairman of Rhone-Poulenc, the French chemicals giant that has made more than 15 acquisitions over the last two years.
 
An Overheated Market
 Hardly a day goes by without a major M. & A. announcement out of France, Britain or the Netherlands - where most targets are located. Even the staid West Germans, long considered immune to merger mania, are getting into the act as scores of entrepreneurs there who founded businesses after World War II sell their concerns as they near retirement.
The last few weeks illustrate how overheated Europe's takeover market has become. Groupe Bull, France's largest computer company, announced plans to buy Zenith's computer operations for $635 million, while Unilever, the Anglo-Dutch consumer goods giant, acquired Boursin, the French cheese company.
Meanwhile, the Scandinavian Airways System and Swiss Air announced they would buy stakes in each other, and Banque Paribas is making a hostile $2 billion bid for control of Navigation Mixte, a French conglomerate. That comes after Allianz, Germany's largest insurer, agreed to pay $1 billion for half of Navigation Mixte's insurance operations. In addition, Michelin, the French tire maker, said it would buy Uniroyal for $690 million.
''Even though the Europeans may feel what has happened is dramatic, it is nowhere yet the level it can be,'' Professor Haspeslagh said.
Europe's takeover movement began in heavy industries like steel and chemicals, which are now consolidated. Automobiles, defense and food processing were hit next.
The latest go-go area, however, is services. The European Community is just starting to break down the barriers on cross-border banking and insurance, and companies are moving quickly to take advantage. Banks in northern Europe, where population growth is stagnant, are eagerly developing bridgeheads in fast-growing southern Europe, and banks in Spain and Italy, which are ''overbanked,'' are busy consolidating.
In the last month, Dresdner Bank, Germany's No. 2 bank behind Deutsche Bank, agreed to buy France's Banque Internationale de Placement, while Westdeutsche Landesbank, West Germany's No. 4 bank, set up a joint investment bank with Britain's Standard Chartered Bank.
Meanwhile, in insurance, Groupe Victoire, a large French insurer, is paying $2 billion to acquire Colonia Versicherung A.G., Germany's No. 2 insurance company. And Axa-Midi, one of France's largest insurers, has bought Equity and Law, the British insurance company.
''All this is helping tie Europe together,'' said John A. Nelson, managing director of Lazard Brothers & Company, the London investment bank.
Officials in the banking and insurance industries say these mergers may make these financial concerns more efficient by allowing them to consolidate back-office operations. European banking titans like Deutsche Bank and Banque Nationale de Paris are confident that their takeovers will make them more formidable on the global scene.
 
Airlines Join Forces
 For now, however, the greatest ferment is in Europe's airline industry. After British Airways acquired British Caledonia last year, Swiss Air and S.A.S. formed a partnership that involves joint marketing and cross-shareholdings. Lufthansa and Air France have also signed a cooperative accord. And British Airways and Royal Dutch Airways are studying whether to buy 20 percent stakes in Sabena, Belgium's flag carrier. British Airways is seeking to buy a stake in United Airlines, while KLM is one buyer of Northwest Airlines.
''There is a globalization of the industry, and all the airlines in the world are being driven together,'' said Norman Lornie, a spokesman for British Airways. ''You can't stand still. That's the way of the world.''
The pattern in the airline industry shows how many Europeans turn to alliances instead of to expensive and often bitter takeovers. The high degree of state ownership often rules out mergers. For instance, it would be hard for Frankfurt-based Lufthansa, which is 64.5 percent state-owned, to acquire or merge with Air France, which is entirely state-owned.
The liberal attitude of Europe's antitrust laws toward joint research and development also makes mergers often unnecessary. For example, Philips N.V., the Dutch electronics giant, and Siemens A.G., West Germany's largest electronics company, formed a $1 billion venture to develop a one-megabit computer chip.
Some of the preference for alliances comes down to psychology. ''The U.S. manager typically has a greater need for control, whereas many managers in Europe are more comfortable with ambiguity and partnerships,'' Professor Haspeslagh said.
When officials at Guinness P.L.C., the London-based beer and spirits company, were looking to link up their distribution operation with a company strong in champagne and cognac, an obvious candidate was Moet-Hennessy. But rather than moving to buy the world's leading champagne and cognac maker, Guinness formed an alliance with it.
''The only people who benefit in a hostile takeover are the outgoing shareholders,'' said Anthony Tennant, Guinness's chairman.
Nonetheless, unfriendly takeovers are catching on. Sir James Goldsmith's bid for B.A.T. is a sign that huge, American-style hostile bids have arrived in Britain. Last year's hard-fought but unsuccessful bid by Carlo de Benedetti, the Italian industrialist, for Societe Generale de Belgique showed that hostile offers had jumped the English Channel to take root on the Continent. As Paribas's bid for Navigation Mixte makes clear, hostile bids have become a regular feature on Paris's Bourse.
 
Intolerant of Takeovers
 But many countries do not show the same tolerance to these bids as do France and Margaret Thatcher's laissez-faire Britain. Switzerland, Germany and the Netherlands have barriers to unfriendly takeovers that an Olympic hurdler would find difficult to overcome. In the Netherlands, the Government permits elaborate, layered antitakeover measures, while in Switzerland many companies limit shareholders to 3 percent of the voting rights, even if they own 20 percent of the stock.
In West Germany and Switzerland, the cozy links between banks and their corporate clients form, as in Japan, another obstacle. German companies lack the array of poison pills seen in the United States, but can often count on friendly German banks to rescue them from hostile attacks.
Sometimes banks will buy up shares of a targeted client to push up its stock price. Or, because many shareholders give them their proxies, these banks can vote to prevent a management ouster.
The aversion to junk bonds is another major obstacle to the success of hostile bids in West Germany and elsewhere on the Continent. ''I don't think Europe's institutional investors are prepared to go to high-yield bonds, especially given the shaky environment in the States,'' said George Taucher, a professor at the Imede business school in Lausanne.
But some merger experts say that if a landmark hostile takeover battle succeeds in West Germany, it could pave the way for others. ''Siemens would be the ideal target,'' said Carl-Matthias von der Reche, a director of corporate finance at Bank Julius Baer. ''With its 25 billion Deutsche mark cash position, it would almost pay for itself.''
 
A Lack of Reciprocity
 The German takeover market may also loosen up as many family-owned German companies go public to cash in or to raise capital to expand. This could vastly increase the number of potential targets in Germany and allay tensions with the British and Americans over the lack of reciprocity. ''There will be an evolution toward more of a level playing field,'' said Mr. Istel of Wasserstein Perella.
At the moment, the differences in attitudes among European nations are creating friction. For example, many in British complain that Siemens, the electronics concern, could make a successful hostile bid for Plessy, the British electronics company, but a British concern would almost certainly fail in a hostile offer for a West German entity. The issue came to the fore last year when Nestle S.A., of Switzerland, made a successful hostile bid for Rowntree, the British chocolate company.
Some United States Congressmen are also bothered by the lack of reciprocity and have drafted legislation to place stricter limits on foreign takeovers of American companies to even the score. While European companies spent $38 billion last year to acquire American companies, Americans doled out just $8 billion to purchase European operations. American companies have made select purchases in Europe to participate in niche markets - as evidenced by Ford Motor Company's agreement last week to buy Jaguar P.L.C. But their takeovers in Europe have been limited in large part because many multinationals established operations there long ago.
''The I.B.M.'s, Exxon's and G.M.'s would like to do acquisitions in Europe, but they find it very difficult to pick up anything of size,'' said Mr. Waldenstrom, the consultant.
Some Europeans worry that a surge in hostile takeovers would shift their focus to short-term profitability. Executives like Helmut Maucher, Nestle's chairman, and Albert Herrhausen, Deutsche Bank's chairman, argue that European companies have been able to grow slowly but surely in part because management does not have to worry non-stop about the short term as it does in America.
''We should remember that some of the countries most hostile to unfriendly takeovers have some of the most efficient economies in the world,'' Mr. Waldenstrom said. ''Look at Germany and Japan.''
Still, even in West Germany, some people like the idea of hostile bids, asserting that many companies have to be jolted into caring more about profitability. ''Some hostile takeover business in Germany would wake up some managers who have grown fat and sit there like civil servants,'' said one German fund manager.
Many Europeans, however, hope that their continent can strike a balance. ''The real dilemma,'' Professor Haspeslagh said, ''is how can you have German-style corporate decision making with an English-style market for corporate control?''

GRAPHIC: Graph of number of mergers or acquisitins involving the thousand largest European companies, 1983-1989* (*Analysis estimate) (Source: European Commission of the European Community) (pg. 1); Jean-Rene Fourtou, chairman of Rhone-Poulenc, one of Europe's most aggressive buyers (Sygma/Pierre Vauthey); pie chart of the locating of the 940 European businesses acquired during the 12 months ended March 31, 1989, by country (Source: KPMG Peat Marwick); graph of the value of mergers and acquistions in Europe, 1985-1988; graph of percent of those deals that were cross-border, 1985-1988 (Source: Professor Philippe Haspeslagh, Insead Business school and Acquisitions Monthly magazine) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAH (NYSE) (55%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (54%); BTI (JSE) (54%); BATS (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (87%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (55%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (54%); WASSERSTEIN PERELLA INTERNATIONAL (50%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, WEST; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TAKEOVERS (92%); MERGERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (84%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (54%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN JAMES 'MICHAEL' GOLDSMITH (54%); 



102 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2032 words

HEADLINE: Philanthropy for the 21st Century

 BODY:
The fourth-generation Rockefellers are confronted with their own mortality. As most of these heirs to one of the nation's wealthiest dynasties step deeper into middle age, they are searching for a meaningful way to leave their imprint.
In the last several years, some of the 22 fourth-generation members of the family, who range in age from 22 to 61 and call themselves ''the cousins,'' have started to take a more active role in the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, the family's main vehicle for philanthropy. They have also moved to coordinate their own personal philanthropy and moved environmental causes to the top of their agenda.
''We decided the only way we could retain our identity as a family was through shared social purpose expressed through philanthropy,'' said Steven C. Rockefeller, one of the cousins. 
The unrelated move by the Rockefeller Group last week to sell an interest in some of its choicest assets will ensure that future generations of the family have wealth if they choose to carry on the deep tradition of philanthropy established by their forebears. The sale of such showcase properties as Rockefeller Center and the Radio City Music Hall represents a forward-looking strategy. In diversifying the family's assets held in trust, which had become dominated by real estate, the Rockefeller trustees are ensuring that future Rockefellers will have resources in the 21st Century and beyond. On Monday, the company and David Rockefeller Sr., chairman of the Rockefeller Group, announced that it had sold a 51 percent stake in the company to Mitsubishi Estate Company of Tokyo.
While some of the younger Rockefeller cousins had been rumored to be interested in cashing out their interests in the company, Mr. Rockefeller insisted ''there are no payouts.'' The $846 million in proceeds from the sale revert to unbreakable family trusts established by John D. Rockefeller Jr. in 1934. The proceeds, he said, are unlikely to be distributed during the lifetimes of any of the cousins.
But they could in time provide increased income from the trusts for their children and their children's children. These future generations will carry on a philanthropic-mindedness that has been a part of the family since John D. Rockefeller founded the dynasty. Using his fortunes from the Standard Oil Company, in 1913 he created the Rockefeller Foundation, one of the country's 10 wealthiest philanthropies, with assets of $2 billion today. He leaves a legacy of great institutions including the University of Chicago, the Rockefeller University and the Rockefeller Foundation.
Shaping the youngest generation in the family's philanthropic mission starts at a tender age. For example, Alida Rockefeller Messinger, 40, says she was only 5 years old when her late father, John D. Rockefeller, 3rd, began talking to her about giving.
''My father and mother's greatest fear was that their four children might take their wealth for granted and grow up spoiled and arrogant,'' she said. ''They wanted us to learn early that with wealth comes responsibility.''
In fact, the cousins, who include physicians, lawyers, educators and environmentalists, will leave their children a strong history of philanthropy. Although the cousins' inheritance has not been quantified and extends through a network of more than 100 financial trusts, their combined annual personal contributions to philanthropic causes are said to total in the tens of millions. They contribute to the schools where they have studied, the communities in which they live and a range of highly individualized interests in the arts, sciences, health, in civil rights causes and now, increasingly in environmental movements, on both the global and local levels.
Still, the cousins have grown up in the formidable shadow of their fathers and uncles. John D. Rockefeller Jr.'s six children, the third generation of Rockefellers, formed the Rockefeller Brothers Fund in 1949, which has since been the main vehicle for the family's charitable activities.
These scions, the so-called ''Brothers Generation,'' include John D. Rockefeller 3d, who is known worldwide for his support of population control and as a patron of Asian culture; Laurance Rockefeller, a venture capitalist and conservationist; David Sr., the former chairman of Chase Manhattan, and civic leader; Winthrop, a former Governor of Arkansas, and Nelson, the United States vice president and former New York Governor.
Only Laurance, 79, and David, 75, survive. The others, including Abby, the only Rockefeller sister, died during the 1970's.
The cousins have fewer resources than the brothers. But they have established several individual foundations with their trust money.
And since the mid-80's, they have begun to exert greater influence over the affairs of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund. In 1985, Laurance resigned his seat on the board, giving the cousins 8 of 9 family seats on the fund's 17-member board. And two years ago, David Rockefeller, Jr., a board member and a leader among the cousins, succeeded his father as chairman of the fund's board.
David Jr. has played a pivotal role in reorganizing and strengthening the family institutions. And with his talents for conciliating differences, he is trying reunite the cousins, who have never been a cohesive group and many of whom have an almost obsessive insistence on privacy. At the urgings of his father, and to insure a smooth transition, David Jr. invited the other cousins as well as outside experts to help shape an agenda for the fund.
Their suggestions helped form the foundation of ''A strategy for the 80's,'' an agenda adopted by the fund in 1983. The agenda is built on a ''one world'' theme, pushing the fund further into environmental programs. While the fund was an early contributor to research on greenhouse gases and global warming, today it invests fully 40 percent of its money in programs to protect the world's water, forests, land and air resources.
The recent sale of Rockefeller Center to Mitsubishi is in keeping with that spirit of ''one world.'' David Jr. said Thursday that it was ''a reminder of how small the global village has become and the importance of close partnerships among the world's peoples and nations.''
Alluding to the new relationship between the Rockefeller and Mitsubishi interests, he added: ''The closer we operate in business, culture or the environment, the more secure and healthier we will be.''
The cousins' recent shift comes years after soul-searching. Most are now in their 40's and 50's, and came of age during the turbulent 60's, a time of campus demonstrations against the Vietnam war and clamoring for social change. Some of them marched, joined anti-war groups and supported nuclear disarmament efforts.
It was a period of alienation and confusion, and a number of them, troubled by the times and their own family identity, sought psychiatric help. Steven, 53, recalls the period as painful. Now a professor of religion at Middlebury College in Vermont, he has embraced Zen-Buddhism, which he said ''opened him up'' but has not closed him off to Christianity.
Some changed their names to disassociate themselves from the family. Sandra Rockefeller, Abby's daughter, dropped the family name and still lives privately in Cambridge, Mass.
Still, a few have high profiles. The most visible cousin is John D. Rockefeller 4th, the 52-year-old senator and former governor of West Virginia.
And most have given to their favorite causes privately. Many of the cousins are active in environmental issues. Abby M. O'Neill, the oldest of the cousins, is vice-chairman of the board of the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation. Preserving the Virginia landmark city has been an interest of the Rockefeller family since the 1920's.
Abby Rockefeller, David Sr.'s daughter, shocked some family members when she set up business in Cambridge to market a Swedish composting toilet - a concept that is beginning to catch on.
Winthrop Paul Rockefeller, Jr., 41, who is said to have inherited at least $550 million as his father's sole heir, is believed to be the richest cousin. An outdoorsman, his wide-ranging interests include serving on the boards of the Nature Conservancy, Ducks Unlimited, which seeks to protect migrating waterfowl, and the Bill Foundation, which is concerned with preserving migrating species like marlin and sailfish. He is chief executive officer of Winrock Farms, which raises livestock and crops.
The health of the environment is also a major concern of Larry Rockefeller, an attorney, and his wife, Wendy Gordan Rockefeller, an expert in toxicology. Both are on the staff of the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group that campaigned successfully to remove the ripening agent, Alar, from the market. Wendy is also a co-chairperson with Meryl Streep of Mothers and Others for Pesticide Limits, a public education campaign that called attention to the dangers of the Alar, which is sprayed on apples.
Social causes also a favorite cause among the cousins. David Jr.'s private philanthropic interests focus on strengthening American public education. He is chairman of Recruiting New Teachers, an organization in Cambridge that elicited almost 250,000 responses to a campaign by the Advertising Council seeking pre-college instructors.
Two years ago, Dr. Lucy Waletzky, a Washington psychiatrist and co-founder of the Medical Illness Counseling Center, created ''DateABLE,'' in Chevy Chase, Md., a service that helps people who live in isolation with and without physical disabilities to meet and make social contacts. ''It's a dating service with 200 members and chapters now in San Antonio and Cleveland,'' she said.
Alida Rockefeller supports a radio station owned and operated by the Oglala Indians on the Pine Ridge reservation in South Dakota. Neva R. Goodwin, an economist, serves on the board of the College of the Atlantic, a small institution in Bar Harbor, Me., which gives only one degree - in human ecology.
In the cousins group, where women outnumber men, Laura R. Chasin has taken the lead in carving out an interest in ''reproductive responsibility,'' the name she gives a bundle of concerns including contraceptive research and pro-choice and civil rights issues. ''I'm prepared to spend the next 20 years learning what I have to know,'' she said after calling together an informal meeting of experts this summer to outline a possible philanthropic role in these causes.
Although their interests remain wide-ranging, the cousins are developing new cohesion in their private philanthropic efforts. Two years ago, they formed a Family Philanthropy Committee. Headed by Steven Rockefeller, the group meets every two months toidentify areas of mutual interest and collaboration. Three generations sit on the 10-member committee: David Rockefeller Sr., seven members of the fourth generation and two from the fifth.
In addition, the cousins appointed Ira S. Hirschfield to head another committee to more closely coordinate the philanthropic endeavors of the individidual family members, the Rockefeller Brothers Fund and the Rockefeller Family Fund, a smaller philanthropy, with $34 million in assets, createdin 1967 to serve as a training ground for the young family members.
The arrangement was made in part because of the dovetailing interests of the cousins and the foundations. For instance, because of an initiative by Larry Rockefeller, the Rockefeller Family Fund was prompted to support the Conservation Law Foundation, which using litigation, has pressured utilities to develop energy-conservation practices.
That the cousins are impelled to continue their great-grandfather's legacy was underscored when the family and guests convened to honor the patriarch's 150th birthday last weekend at his 2,700-acre Pocantico Hills estate, with a sweeping view of the Hudson.
As David Rockefeller Jr. reflected the accomplishments of that ''legendary man,'' he asked the group to ponder several thoughts. ''What is the current plight of man?'' he asked the group. ''What is the condition of our planetary nest? And what is philanthropy doing to respond to these conditions?''

GRAPHIC: Rodman Rockefeller, Nelson's son (NYT/Star Black); David Rockefeller and his son, David Jr. (NYT/Sarah Krulwich); Winthrop Rockefeller shortly before his death in 1973 and his son, Paul Winthrop (UPI); diagram showing the daughter and five sons of John D. Rockfeller Jr., as well as their spouses and their children. (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8802 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (66%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (66%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (66%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (66%); SIC6514 OPERATORS OF DWELLINGS OTHER THAN APARTMENT BUILDINGS (66%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (66%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (66%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (66%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (51%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO LTD (66%); STANDARD OIL CO (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKEFELLER BROTHERS FUND

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY FOUNDATIONS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (70%); 

PERSON: ROCKEFELLER FAMILY JAY ROCKEFELLER (89%); 



103 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: WEEK IN BUSINESS;
Computer Trading Put on a Leash

BYLINE: By STEVE DODSON

 BODY:
Curbs on computerized trading of stocks are being established by the Big Board in an effort to reduce market volatility. The New York Stock Exchange chairman, John J. Phelan, said investor confidence was being eroded by violent swings in stock prices. Pressure for such a move has been mounting in reaction to the 190- point plunge in the market on Oct. 13 and the volatility in subsequent days. In the last two weeks most big Wall Street firms, under prodding from large clients, said they would cease index arbitrage for their own accounts. The Big Board's changes include asking large traders to refrain from trades that ''destabilize'' the market and curbing the use of a computerized order system when stock prices are falling. The first limit on program trading, a 15-minute delay on orders, would be imposed when the Dow Jones industrial average has fallen 30 points. 
 
*
 Ford is buying Jaguar for $2.38 billion. The deal for the British luxury car maker ends a sparring match between Ford and General Motors, which had been talking all year with Jaguar about a linkup. Ford is paying $13.32 a share, twice what Jaguar was selling for in mid-September when Ford said it wanted to seek control. G.M. said the price Ford was paying ''could not be justified.'' Jaguar last year made 51,939 cars, and it is barely breaking even. Analysts said Ford would try to capitalize on Jaguar's prestige by investing heavily to turn the company into a high-volume maker of cars selling for $30,000 to $40,000.
Chrysler is retrenching, laying off 4,000 workers and ending production of its subcompact Dodge Omni and Plymouth Horizon.
 
*
 Jobs data showed strength in the services sector but further weakening in manufacturing. The unemployment rate was unchanged in October at 5.2 percent and the economy added 233,000 jobs. The expectation for jobs growth had been about 150,000, and analysts said the large number would discourage the Federal Reserve from making any moves soon to lower interest rates. On the other hand, the manufacturing sector posted its seventh straight month of declines, losing 13,000 jobs.
The index of leading indicators inched up two-tenths of 1 percent in September. Other September data showed sales of new homes falling 14 percent while factory orders and construction remained unchanged.
 
*
 Control of Rockefeller Center was bought by Mitsubishi Estate of Japan. For $846 million in cash, Mitsubishi will get 51 percent of the Rockefeller Group, whose portfolio includes some of mid-Manhattan's most valuable and well-known properties, like Radio City Music Hall. Mitsubishi is part of a 28-company empire that includes the auto maker. It will now be the landlord of some big names in American business, including Time Warner, NBC, and Morgan Stanley. David Rockefeller said the deal was an effort to diversify the investments of the family trust.
 
*
 The stock market meandered, with the strongest move, a 41-point gain, coming on Tuesday. But a poor earnings report from Compaq Computer depressed the technology stocks and the overall market. At Friday's close the Dow stood at 2,629.51, a gain for the week of 32.79 points. Bond prices turned down on Friday after the jobs report was taken as a sign that the Fed will not be easing interest rates soon. Gold prices reached $380 an ounce, a three- month high.
 
*
 A 9.7 percent stake in UAL has been accumulated by Coniston Partners, a New York buyout firm that said it would seek control of the board of the company, which is the United Airlines parent. Coniston said it did not intend to break up UAL but wanted to take actions to increase the stock price. A $300-a-share bid by UAL pilots and managment fell apart last month, contributing to the big Oct. 13 plunge in the stock market. UAL shares have since traded around $180.
 
*
 A $3.1 billion offer was made by Georgia-Pacific for Great Northern Nekoosa. The unsolicited bid was considered a shocker in the paper and forest-products industry, which had a reputation as a ''gentlemen's club'' in which members did not raid one another. Great Northern was cool to the offer it described as ''uninvited.'' The day of the announcement Great Northern's shares soared more than $20 to nearly $63, a sign that Wall Street expects the $58-a-share bid to be topped.
 
*
 Miscellanea. Sears's chairman said the headquarters tower in Chicago might not be sold after all. The company is believed to be having trouble getting the $1 billion or more it wants for the world's tallest skyscraper . . . Miller Brewing said it would introduce a beer-flavored no-alcohol drink next year . . . Reebok introduced a $170 pair of inflatable basketball shoes.

GRAPHIC: John J. Phelan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (55%); MS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); LAYOFFS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (64%); INTEREST RATES (62%); 



104 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FORUM: WALL STREET'S DILEMMA;
Program Trading Is Not the Culprit

BYLINE: By PAUL T. JONES; Paul T. Jones is chairman of the Tudor Investment Corporation, a futures oriented money management firm in New York.

 BODY:
Program trading bashing has become as fashionable today as attacking Communists was during the McCarthy era. Ban program trading -or so the argument goes - and stock market volatility will dissappear, the Dow Jones Industrial Average will stabilize and the small investor will return to the market. It is an appealing argument, consistent with the feel-good, forget-reality philosophy that has been pervasive in the country since 1980.
But the argument does not address the fact that stock market volatility levels in 1987 (and by implication, 1989) were, according to the Brady Commission Report on the 1987 market collapse, ''no higher than those seen at times in the early 1970's and 1940's, and are substantially lower than the levels attained at various points in the 1930's'' when of course there was no program trading. 
The argument also does not address the fact that a 2800 Dow cannot be legislated or mandated. Markets go where the underlying fundamentals dictate they will go, irrespective of program trading. And the argument fails to address the fact that asking the small investor to come back to the market to compete with today's professionals is like asking me to fight Mike Tyson.
Blaming 10 institutions and a few computers for the $200 billion worth of destruction that occured on Oct. 13, is a dangerous mistake. For program trading and the very existence of stock index futures are symptomatic of - and not causal to - the problems we face with capital formation in the United States in general.
Since 1980, the persistent message from Washington has been that debt and leverage are responsible and useful tools in the conduct of Government policy and private business. But if there is anything that contributes to volatility, it is leverage. How can one fault members of the investment community who utilize 5 percent margins when some Government agencies are operating with negative net worths.
The above discussion is important but still leaves untouched the substantive question of the merits of program trading. Specifically, does program trading add anything to the capital formation process and does it add unwanted volatility? I believe that in isolated instances program trading adds to volatility in the very short-run - hours and days - not weeks and months.
At the same time, stock index futures do provide an excellent hedging vehicle for investors. Because they provide this hedging mechanism these instruments may induce certain large investors to commit larger percentages of their assets to securities. In this way, program trading would contribute positively to the capital formation process.
Even so, the public's perception is that program trading is a destabilizing influence. This perception is a problem that must be addressed. There are two possible solutions: First, ban program trading, which in turn will virtually eliminate trading in stock index futures.
The other, better, approach would be to increase margins on futures contracts to 20 percent and simultaneously impose an immovable 2 percent daily price limit on the stock index and options futures markets. These steps would dampen speculation in futures and options, thereby reducing volatility. These actions also should prevent futures from leading the underlying cash market in periods of panic when logic and reason are as scarce as career Yankee baseball players. Price limits force people using futures and options as substitutes for buying or selling shares to return to the cash market.
If these proposals were in operation, portfolio insurance, which is based on program trading, would never have existed in 1987, and many of the worst fears of a futures related sell-off would be mitigated. Trading without limits has no merit for it presupposes people always act in a rational fashion.
It is my hope that historians do not make the mistake of attributing the crashes of 1987 and 1989 to program trading and stock index futures. They are but one part of a much larger fiscal and social debt problem. I am also not sympathetic to the fund managers' cries against program trading because I believe their participation in leveraged-buyouts is economically destructive. In my opinion, buyouts induce more volatility over the long-term than the most egregious occurrences in the futures markets.
As to those Congressional critics of program trading, I suggest they first help resolve America's real problems by undertaking a new commitment to fiscal responsiblity and discipline. Unless the Government and private sector address the real and rapidly growing problem of excess leverage, America's markets in the 1990's may face an unprecedented level of volatility, for which there will be no one to blame but ourselves.

GRAPHIC: Paul T. Jones (NYT/John Sotomayor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FUTURES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); 

PERSON: JONES, PAUL T MIKE TYSON (55%); 



105 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Foreign Aid Problem

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
Yoshito Kimura has a $23.5 billion headache.
As director of development policy at the Export-Import Bank of Japan, that's how much he has to help the Government lend to the third world as part of Japan's ambitious effort to ''recycle'' its cash surpluses to heavily indebted countries. Mr. Kimura's problem is that he has a mere five professionals and a handful of personal computers to evaluate the dozens of exceedingly complex loan proposals that cross his desk.
Kanetaka Kijima, deputy director of the department recycling Japanese capital to countries in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, also has a problem; he has discovered that, as the Export-Import Bank studies loan proposals from poor African countries, a part of the world all but ignored by the Japanese previously, he does not have enough officials who speak French, the region's most common language.
These are just a few examples of the hurdles, both large and small, that the Japanese Government must overcome as it faces a challenge unlike any it has tackled before - helping Japan by helping the world. 
It is nearly three years since former Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone set the nation on this new course, in response to heavy criticism from the United States and other industrial countries over its one-sided trade policies and growing trade surpluses. Since then, Japan has surpassed the United States as the world's largest aid donor and has set a goal of recycling a total of $65 billion over the next three years to countries drowning in debt.
The principal lesson, however, is that it is one thing to declare such worthy intentions and something else to carry them out. The effort is requiring a new range of skills, the retraining of bureaucrats, the cooperation of many departments used to squabbling and a more generous attitude among the Japanese. There is even a problem getting the resources to do the job.
''These loans are more one-by-one, hand-crafted work, and that is more difficult,'' said Takashi Tanaka, the Export-Import Bank's president. ''But because we're a Government institution our resources are limited, and we have to just emphasize a greater effort on the part of our existing people.''
In fact, all of these changes are proving difficult. ''The Prime Minister has said that Japan should make some contribution to global economic management, and we should praise the Government for that,'' said Hiroya Ichikawa, deputy director for international cooperation at the Keidanren, the powerful trade group representing Japan's largest companies. ''But in designing the program we believe they did not achieve their aim. The house is divided on specifics.''
It seems fitting that the focus of the bumpy transformation is the Export-Import Bank, which in its 39 years has been at the forefront of the Government's efforts to promote corporate interests with low-cost loans.
The Japanese economy has been through several tough readjustments during those years, like the oil shocks of the 1970's. But each time, the resilient bank used its lending power to help Japanese corporations rebound stronger than before. It has become a metaphor for Japanese adaptability.
The bank's latest odyssey started in 1986, when Japan began a major economic restructuring to counter the growing criticism of its policies. Among the measures was a program to stimulate Japan's economy in the hope that that would encourage more imports. Another idea was helping the developing world with a combination of loans through the Export-Import Bank and direct aid, handled by other Government agencies.
The timing was critical for the bank. Its traditional mission was winding down, in part because it had done its job so well. With Japanese companies able to compete internationally on their own, they were paying off their old loans from the bank faster than they were taking out new ones. The bank had to find a new mission or watch itself disappear.
''They had quite a lot of money coming in and they were looking for a role,'' said Mami Mizutori, a senior official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Japan made its first commitment to recycle some of its trade surpluses to the ailing developing countries in 1986, with a $10 billion program. A year later, an additional $20 billion was committed. Of that amount, the Export-Import Bank was expected to lend about $10 billion over two years. The purpose was to help the countries crawl out from their crushing debt burdens by stimulating productive new industries or helping their economies readjust.
When Japan announced this summer that it would recyle another $35 billion, the Export-Import Bank's overall total rose to $23.5 billion. It has until the spring of 1992 to lend the money. An important reason for the program is that the private sector has demonstrated far different priorities in recycling its share of the Japanese surpluses. Most of this investment goes into American securities, not developing countries, Government figures show.
But the new credits pose a challenge. Traditionally, the bank's financings were tied to helping Japanese companies. There had been a modest amount of what was called ''untied'' lending during the 1970's to support energy development projects in countries like Indonesia. But even in those cases, the energy products were shipped to Japan. Because of that background, Japan's new push on recycling has been met with skepticism in many countries. Many refused to believe that Japan had really abandoned its old commitment to helping Japanese companies first.
That skepticism has not dissuaded the Export-Import Bank from moving ahead. In mid-1986, it lent $80 million to a project in Colombia in a co-financing with the World Bank. The next year it lent $900 million for several projects in Indonesia. As part of the package, private banks lent $300 million - after getting loan guarantees from the Export-Import Bank - and the World Bank lent $2.9 billion. More deals have followed. The benefit of co-financing is that the World Bank is far more experienced in evaluating such loans, and the Japanese can rely on its judgments. In addition, co-financing has helped the Export-Import Bank fend off criticism that it was choosing loan recipients out of self-interest.
As a result, untied lending has soared. From nothing in 1984, it jumped to 467 billion yen in 1987 and 865 billion yen (about $6.5 billion) in 1988, or 59 percent of the year's total credit commitments. At the same time, the amount of traditional lending has declined significantly.
The shift has brought with it some serious problems. Loans to governments already heavily in debt entail far more risk than the bank's traditional credits. ''We have to adhere to sound banking principles, and we intend to keep to those principles,'' said Mr. Tanaka, the bank's president. ''But the portion of risky assets is increasing.''
Another problem is that an original aim of the untied lending was to encourage private banks to continue providing credits. That has been an important aim of the debt-reduction plan proposed by the United States Treasury Secretary, Nicholas F. Brady. Yet this participation has been slow to follow.
There is also some fear within the bank that, as its clientele changes, it will lose the support of Japanese industry, which has been important in the past. Mr. Tanaka denied that this was a problem, but others disagreed.
''There is concern that as we make untied loans we will lose contact with Japanese industries and lose our domestic support,'' said Mr. Kimura, the director of development policy. ''If there were some movement to abolish the bank, the foreign countries will have no voice here. So we have to strike a balance. We still have to support business in one form or another.''
That is a view shared by many important business executives. Mr. Ichikawa of the Keidanren said his organization was strongly opposed to the untied lending policies because they ignored the expertise that the Japanese private sector could bring to bear in helping the indebted countries build their economies. ''Untied money is just throwing it away,'' he said. ''You have a lot more vitality and experience in the private sector and that should be used.''
As a result, Keidanren has set up its own rival aid effort, called the Japan International Development Organization Ltd.
Mr. Tanaka shared at least one concern - that Japan not come to look like a cash dispenser machine. ''The important thing for Japan is to have a grand design for lending,'' he said. ''We do not want to create the image that someone in the third world can push a button and they get Japanese money. We want a plan so that we accomplish something.'' And he admitted that such a plan has yet to be put in place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Graph of credit commitments by the Export-Import Bank of Japan, grouped by type of financing, fiscal years 1980-1988* (*Converted at Friday's, Nov. 3, 1989, exchange rate) (Source: Export-Import Bank of Japan)

TICKER: 3513 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (51%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (51%); SIC2299 TEXTILE GOODS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: JAPAN BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION (91%); ICHIKAWA CO LTD (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); DEBTOR NATIONS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (59%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (56%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES



106 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1973 words

HEADLINE: Here Comes the Fiber-Optic Home

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: CERRITOS, Calif.

 BODY:
A team of telephone installers from the GTE Corporation is busy at work in this affluent suburb south of Los Angeles stringing fiber-optic cables into 600 homes, replacing the traditional copper wires that have been used since the invention of the telephone. The experiment - one of many being conducted around the country - will usher in what communications experts see as a new information age in the United States in which fiber-optic cables vastly increase the amount of audio, video and computer data that can flow in and out of the home.
The experiments represent the first step in bringing fiber-optic connections to the nation's residences in the 1990's. The trials are possible because a single thin strand of glass fiber carrying pulses of laser light can transmit hundreds of thousands times more information than the traditional pair of copper wires.
Fiber-optic cables are already widely used in long distance lines and between local telephone exchanges. But extending them into the home could create vast new markets for residential electronic information services that are expected to range from on-line shopping to delivery of entire newspapers electronically and the creation of a new generation of smart home appliances that will combine the functions of televisions, computers, facsimile machines and telephones. Visionaries foresee such things as home banking, electronic mail, picture telephones and customized television feeds becoming standard home fare. 
They envision a nationwide web of fiber-optic cables reaching into homes, tying into a network of fiber-optic ''superhighways'' and connecting residences with large government and private institutions.
But now some Congressmen, consumer advocates, researchers and even fiber-optic proponents are beginning to question the consequences of this technology. They warn that fiber-optic networks may be deployed only for those who can afford the new services. This raises the possibility of creating an information technology elite and erecting a new, electronic wall between rich and poor. ''If it's modernization only, that means that fiber will be first offered in new homes and that tends to push it to the wealthiest,'' said Philip A. Wilkinson, director of strategic planning for the American Telephone & Telegraph Company.
Marc Rotenberg, Washington director of Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility, a lobbying group, said: ''I'm uneasy because it's an opportunity for the telephone companies to stratify services so they can add to existing services with more profitable ones. That's potentially exciting, but it starts to move many people to the margins of the telephone network.''
 
Inner City Lags
 A recent report from the Stanton/Heiskell Center for Public Policy in Telecommunications and Information Systems of the City University of New York warns that the inner city is not keeping pace in new telephone developments. It describes a future where increasingly advanced communication and data services will be offered to telecommunications ''affluentials'' while maintaining only a minimal ''telephone safety net'' for low-income consumers.
Another concern is that fiber-optic networks may divide urban from rural. Richard Adler, a telecommunications industry analyst at the Institute for the Future in Menlo Park, Calif., tells of recently receiving a call from an economic development official in a small Iowa town who said a fiber-optic cable being laid between two larger cities was by-passing his community. The Iowan's complaint echoed a concern often expressed two decades ago by small communities as the interstate highway system was being built and bypassed them.
''There's the danger that older telecommunications networks in small towns will become the equivalent of the Route 66 of the 21st century, with the same failing motels and roadside businesses,'' Mr. Adler said. ''Modern businesses are increasingly making location decisions based on the quality of the telecommunications infrastructure.''
Reese Schonfeld, president of Opt In America, a Washington lobbying organization for fiber-optic networks, points out that the networks have a vast potential for offering interactive education via video and computer links and would be ideally suited to bringing higher-quality education to rural areas and revitalizing small towns. But such links are unlikely to be installed without Government intervention, either with financial assistance or by requiring telecommunications companies to make the installations in return for being allowed to offer new services.
''The most money to be made is at the top end of the market,'' said Gene Kimmelman, legislative director for the Consumer Federation of America in Washington. ''Certain segments of the market will be underserved unless the Government steps in.''
Many fiber-optic proponents fear that letting market forces alone drive the installation of fiber-optic cable into homes will delay widespread development of networks. American electronics companies could miss significant opportunities to develop and sell new products that take advantage of the networks' possibilities. Foreign companies might then step in and both install the networks and offer the services and necessary equipment to take advantage of them.
Experts have estimated that it will cost more than $200 billion to replace the copper network that currently carries telephone service to the nation's 90 million homes. As of now, it is not clear who would foot the bill. New services like home shopping and interactive television are frequently advanced as revenue-generating businesses capable of generating enough profits to pay for installing fiber-optic cables in residences. For now, revenue from basic telephone service alone does not appear to offer sufficient incentive.
Moreover, today the cost of installing fiber-optic links from local telephone company offices to the home is about twice as much as the $1,500 price tag for copper wire. The most optimistic telephone industry officials are predicting it will be cheaper to install fiber optics by the middle of 1991 or 1992. But others say it may be the middle of the next decade before the break-even point is reached.
 
Debating Issues
 Only recently has Congress begun to grapple with these issues. The most attention has been focused on a proposal by Senator Albert Gore Jr., Democrat of Tennessee, for construction of a fiber-optic computer network at an estimated cost of $1.9 billion to link the nation's supercomputer centers. Senator Gore argues that the broad availability of new information services delivered on fiber-optic networks will depend on Federal projects like his proposed supercomputer network to perform a ''pump priming'' function.
''Right now it's a chicken-and-egg problem,'' he said. ''We need to find some way to start the information flow. Once the information starts flowing there will be lots of commercially viable businesses created.''
But Representative Ed Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, is concerned that the project might merely provide advanced network services to leading scientific researchers but do little for most Americans.
 
Universal Service
 ''The underlying principle of universal service has been part of the communications act since 1934,'' said Mr. Markey. ''If we construct something that is just in the hands of the elite, then we limit the national potential even as we augment the power of a small group. We need to work on these issues in such a way that access is determined by technology and not economics.''
Backers of the Gore plan warn that if the Federal Government and American businesses do not move quickly to install fiber networks in the home, foreign companies will do so as demand develops because American companies will lack the expertise. ''It's not a question of whether fiber networks will arrive, but when,'' said Mr. Wilkinson of A.T.&T.
A.T.&T. officials note that while the United States is debating telecommunications policy issues, both Europe and Japan are making rapid progress toward advanced communications networks. For example, Nippon Telephone & Telegraph is planning to spend more than $200 billion during the next decade on a new fiber-based network in Japan.
Meanwhile, which companies would be allowed to offer residential information services via a fiber-optic network remains a contentious issue in Congress. Under 1984 legislation designed to protect the cable TV industry, telephone companies are barred from delivering video signals to the home. But in recent years, ''fiber-to-the-home'' has become a rallying cry for the telephone companies. Several bills have been introduced that would permit them to own cable television franchises. And Senator Gore and Representative Rick Boucher, Democrat of Virginia, are sponsoring legislation that would allow them to offer their own cable television services.
''There is not going to be a Government program that will bring fiber to the home. It just costs too much money,'' Senator Gore said. ''The way to do it is to create markets.'' He believes that allowing telephone companies to compete with cable television will provide the necessary incentive.
Telephone industry officials have said that the revenues generated from delivering special video services to the home, like an evening of customized television, is the surest way to create the economic upsurge necessary to finance construction of fiber-optic networks. But telephone industry entrance into the cable television business is bitterly opposed by both the cable television industry and the nation's newspapers, which fear a loss of advertising revenue if telephone companies are allowed to provide informational services.
''I don't think that Congress relishes the idea of unleashing these monopoly phone companies,'' said Dennis Mangers, senior vice president of the California Cable Television Association. ''The telephone companies want to be the only wire to the home and they want to do it at the ratepayers' expense.'' The cable industry argues that it is modernizing its own networks - which are free of competition in most cases - as consumer demand for new services increases. It contends that consumer appetite for new services is far less than the telephone companies predict.
To circumvent the current restrictions, telephone companies are establishing strategic alliances with cable providers. GTE, for example, has an arrangement with Apollo Cablevision, which has the cable television franchise in Cerritos. GTE provides local telephone service and has separately contracted to install either coaxial cable, which television uses, or fiber-optic cable to all 16,000 homes in the town. Apollo will then lease access to the cables to provide 36-channel television to the homes.
Telephone companies are also studying ways to increase communication using fiber-optics. For example, at Bell Communications Research, the research laboratories of the seven regional telephone companies, scientists are experimenting with a ''video wall'' that uses fiber-optic cable to link two laboratories 50 miles apart. The wall consists of a giant television screen and a high-quality sound system at each location that is actually built into the wall of a room. Video and audio singals from each location are transmitted between the two sites and workers chat naturally, as if they were separated only by a window. Such technology might provide the basis for home videophone applications.
''Ultimately, fiber-to-the-home permits you to think of communications in a new way,'' said Norwood G. Long, director of fiber optics at A.T.&T.'s Bell Laboratories. ''The fiber-optic network becomes a pipe rather than a channel. You can approach infinity in terms of what you can put over the pipe.''

GRAPHIC: Graph of the projected number of homes to be wired with fiber optics, 1989-1992 (Source: Kessler marketing Intelligence) (pg. 1); a GTE worker installs fiber-optic cable in Cerritos, Calif. (NYT/Bart Bartholomew); chart of companies who have iniateted fiber-in-the-home experiments, indicating the location and date if introduction of the service (Source: Bell Communications Research) (pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (93%); VZ (NYSE) (93%); T (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (93%); AT&T INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FIBER OPTICS FIBER OPTICS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); HOME SECURITY (77%); LOBBYING (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (66%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (65%); CITY LIFE (62%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (60%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN



107 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Prospects;
An Even Slower Economy

BYLINE: By JOEL KURTZMAN

 BODY:
The economy grew by 2.5 percent in the third quarter, and the unemployment rate for October was virtually unchanged from the month before at 5.3 percent. But employment did soften in the manufacturing sector as sales of American-made autos plummeted. So where is the economy headed? Four economists offer their views.
 
Walter Joelson
Chief economist, General Electric Company. 
 The economy is clearly slowing down and will probably have a dose of stagnation in 1990. The growth rate for 1990 will be below 2 percent. But we won't have a recession. The reason for not expecting a recession is the increasing internationalization of the economy. We can avoid the bottlenecks that accompanied recoveries in the past. Basically all industry now has excess capacity and surpluses so supplies are plentiful. We also don't have a capital shortage - which is perverse since there is a budget deficit - because of the flow of funds from abroad. So the normal recessionary forces are not present.
Two areas that will outperform the rest of the economy will be investment in capital equipment and also merchandise exports. Equipment, electric utilities facilities, aircraft, telecommunications and medical equipment will all be strong domestically and for export. G.E. has seen a 60 percent increase in its export orders in the first half of 1989.
 
Albert Wojnilower
Economist and senior adviser, First Boston Corporation.
 Because of a fully employed labor force, we can only grow at about 2.5 percent and that is more or less what we've been doing, subject to measurment problems with the statistics. The softening of the manufacturing sector does not reflect any change in underlying demand but instead shows that worldwide supplies are ample and inventories have built up.
In the current quarter, we won't make the 2.5 percent growth rate because of the strike at Boeing, the damage from the earthquake in California and the aftermath of Hurricane Hugo. We'll have only about 1.5 percent growth this quarter. The first quarter of 1990 will be better. The decline of the stock market has had no effect on the economy except that lenders are more cautious about lending.
 
Lawrence Chimerine
Economic consultant and senior economic adviser, WEFA Group Inc.
 The economy has slowed further and the underlying growth rate is now 1 to 1.5 percent. It is softer than three to four months ago. We are not in a recession, not yet. But we are losing some of the pockets of strength. Growth in exports is slowing and capital spending has also really slowed down. There is nothing propelling the economy upwards. Retail is weak, construction is weak. But I think we'll get through this without a recession. Consumer confidence has held up. Spending on cars is off, but consumer spending is up. It's not strong, but there are no cutbacks.
 
Robert B. Reich
Professor of political economy, John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and author of ''The Resurgent Liberal.''
 The third quarter is disappointing. Purchasing managers are slowing down their purchases and there are early signs of a softening if not a recession over the next six months.
The Federal Reserve is not in a stimulative mood and Mr. Greenspan has signalled his interest in reducing inflation to zero. The fiscal stimulus is also slowing down, not because of a budget compromise, but because there are reductions in outlays on the Federal and state levels.
The trade picture also looks bleak. Exports have picked up, but imports are also high. Already, there are signs of a recession in New England and California. Third quarter profits in high tech are a disaster. Even in mature industries like steel, there is a slowdown. And I'm concerned about American automobile companies. It's not going to be a very merry Christmas.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (83%); GEC (LSE) (83%); GE (SWX) (83%); GE (NYSE) (83%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (59%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (83%); BOEING CO (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); EARTHQUAKES (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%); 

PERSON: JOELSON, WALTER; WOJNILOWER, ALBERT M; CHIMERINE, LAWRENCE; REICH, ROBERT B; KURTZMAN, JOEL JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%); 



108 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FORUM: WALL STREET'S DILEMMA;
Volatility Is Causing Investors to Flee

BYLINE: By JOHN H. GOLDSMITH; John H. Goldsmith is chairman and chief executive of John Hancock Freedom Securities Corporation, a holding company which owns the brokerage firms of Tucker Anthony Inc. and Sutro & Company.

 BODY:
Recently I went to Washington to visit with the Securities and Exchange Commission. I met with three commissioners and their staffs the day before the S.E.C. was to approve the New York Stock Exchange's request to permit trading of the new basket of stocks based on the Standard & Poors 500. I was there to make a last minute appeal to delay this attempt to experiment with our securities markets because I believe the basket will increase volatility. But my attempt to stop this form of basket trading failed and the basket was approved the day after my visit.
In response to my complaints that investors are being driven from our markets due to the volatility caused by program trading and index arbitrage, one of the young staff memebers of the S.E.C. said: ''The role of the commission is to protect the markets, not to protect the investor.'' 
Puzzled by this remark, on my return I asked a colleague to check the legislative history of the 1934 act to see whether my assumption about the basis of the securities act was really wrong. He did not have to look far. President Roosevelt, in his message to Congress on Feb. 9, 1934 forwarding what would become the act said: ''I therefore recommend to the Congress the enactment of legislation providing for the regulation by the Federal Government of the operations of exchanges dealing in securities and commodities for the protection of investors, for the safeguarding of value and, so far as may be possible, for the elimination of unnecessary, unwise and destructive speculation.''
We have allowed our financial markets to become casinos and we have focused our regulatory attention on the development of rules to regulate a host of derivative securites that make our markets safe for the players and traders - for the most part a few large institutions and large Wall Street firms. In so doing, we have fostered the same unecessary, unwise and destructive speculation that characterized the markets of the 1920's, by allowing the managers of large pools of capital to create and profit from market volatilty.
The position of our securities and commodities regulators seems to be that what happens in the casino - the New York Stock Exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the other futures exchanges - is somehow separate and exclusive from the primary market where a business raises capital.
This attempt at intellectual rationalization conforms neither to basic economics nor to the realities of the marketplace. The ability of the country's businesses to raise capital from investors is dependent on the stability of the markets. Market volatility caused by program trading and index arbitrage is causing large and small investors to liquidate their portfolios.
How did we get so far off the track? Where did we lose sight of the reasons for regulating our markets for securities and commodities? The essence of the problem is the index futures contract, without which there could be no index arbitrage. An index future is a wholly artificial device which represents a bet on the future price of a group of stocks, such as the Standard & Poors 500.
This device allows traders to arbitrage between what is perceived to be the future value of the market and the market's current value measured by the prices of the stocks themselves. While I would argue that the index future is without economic validity and diverts capital from the real equity markets, its mere existence might be tolerable.
However, index futures are traded as commodities with one set of rules regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the stocks they represent are traded elsewhere with different rules regulated by the S.E.C. Arbitrage between differences in values is one thing, but there is no place for arbitrage between the rules of two regulatory bodies.
If I thought there was any hope of success, I would fight to eliminate the index future contract altogether. Because the volume of the index future represents such a significant percentage of the total volume of the politically powerful commodities exchanges, such a fight would be doomed. It is essential, however, that we fight to eliminate the regulatory arbitrage that occurs between the index future as a commodity and the represented stocks. This means insisting upon one overseeing regulatory authority for both markets with a similar set of rules relating to margins, short sales and general trading policies. Creating a level playing field here will make great strides in the elmination of the unnecessary, unwise and destructive speculation that is creating the volatility in our equity markets.
In recent days, major trading firms have responded to public pressure by agreeing to stop their index arbitrage activities in whole or in part. We heard the same promises in 1987. Now is the time to act.

GRAPHIC: John H. Goldsmith (NYT/Jim Estrin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (63%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CBOE HOLDINGS INC (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); FUTURES (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); BONDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); 

PERSON: GOLDSMITH, JOHN H



109 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 3, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FORUM: HOW TO BALANCE TRADE;
Lord Keynes Had It Right the First Time

BYLINE: By JEFFERY E. GARTEN; Jeffrey E. Garten is a managing director of The Stamford Company Inc., an investment banking firm in New York.

 BODY:
Few would deny that America's spending and borrowing must be brought under control if our gigantic international trade and financial imbalances are to be corrected. But in a seamless, global economy this is only half of the picture. What about the responsibilities of Japan and Germany, both of which have staggering surpluses?
The notion that countries with deficits and surpluses have obligations to change their policies may seem obvious enough. Through most of this century, however, only deficit nations have had to face the music. 
For them, it has been easy to define what should be done - tighten belts, increase productivity, devalue currencies. It has also been possible to force them to change policies. After all, foreign lenders could always bring deficit nations to heel by raising the price of their loans or threatening to stop leanding altogether.
But it has been almost impossible to tame the surplus nations. They have equated their riches with hard work, quality and other virtuous behavior. And their very economic strength made them impervious to outside pressure.
When America was the overwhelming power in the world economy, it was as arrogant and protective of its autonomy as any surplus nation ever was. But since then a lot has changed as the United States has become the largest debtor and trade deficit country, and Japan and Germany have become strong economiies with chronic trade surpluses. Although trade imbalances - like budget deficits - have become tiresome problems, they are today the most serious threat to the world economy.
Washington has been pressing surplus countries on several fronts. It has been urging them to expand their gross national products, jack up their exchange rates, lower their tariffs and quotas. It has pressed Japan and Germany to recycle their excess funds to other countries via investments in businesses, loans and foreign aid.
The problem is that the medicine hasn't been working. While the two big surplus countries have made some adjustments, particularly in the growth and currency arenas, their trade surpluses are not shrinking. What will be required now is more sustained pressure for ever bigger policy changes. This will amount to a continuous full-court press lasting well into the next decade. If managed badly, it could harm the cooperative relations that have served America, Western Europe and Japan so well.
The debate over what surplus nations should do and how to make them do it dates at least from the 1920s when neither Great Britain nor the United States, then the two strongest economies, understood what their international obligations were. The result was an epidemic of protectionism and, of course, the Great Depression. Spurred on by the intellectual leadership of John Maynard Keynes, the distinguished British economist, there was an effort after World War II to create two institutions to police the economic actions of all nations, deficit and surplus alike. The International Monetary Fund was up and running right away. The International Trade Organization, which was intended to be the I.M.F.'s close counterpart, was aborted in the late 1940s. Now we may be paying the price.
The effort failed because the Congress did not want the United States to be tied down by any international rules. In the 1990's, however, America could use the help of a strong international organization which imposes some pressure on surplus countries. Japan and Germany are, for example, increasingly antagonistic to American arm twisting, which they see as bullying which reflects shifting pressures of a fickle and disorganized Congress. They might well be more cooperative under a multilateral umbrella where bilateral passions are submerged in favor of give-and-take among a broader group of nations.
Perhaps we should harken back to what the International Trade Organization was all about. It was based, after all, on two premises that are crucially relevant to today's problems.
First, international commercial policy was seen as more than tariffs and quotas. It was to extend to purely domestic policies that could give a country unfair trading advantages. Examples included business cartels and discriminatory pricing. There are many current barriers which could be added to the list including overregulated and protected financial systems, obstacles to foreign investment, and disregard for patent and copyright protection.
Second, the International Trade Organization was supposed to have equal standing with the I.M.F. and work in close conjunction with it. Lord Keynes and his colleagues understood that achieving some international commercial balance required coordinated efforts on both the monetary and commercial fronts.
Skeptics would say that all the important trade issues are already being negotiated in one forum or another and that thinking about a new organization now is a pointless diversion. But the fact is that efforts to force surplus countries into line are scattered, ineffective, and just about at a dead end. Nowhere is the full panapoly of trade issues negotiated, and nowhere is trade and finance coordinated.
Washington is not achieving much with its bilateral, big stick approach. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris does impressive studies, but has no clout. The I.M.F. has a mandate in the currency and monetary arena, but not in trade policy. The General Agreement on Trariffs and Trade - a watered down version of a trade organization - has its hands full with conventional trade issues like agriculture. In addition, the GATT has no enforcement capability, and no discernable relationship to the I.M.F. And the summit meetings between heads of state are only media events.
In today's world of spectacular increases in the movement of goods, services and money, strong international economic organizations will have to assume ever greater responsibility. Whether new ones are established or old ones are restructured is less important than that they have the mandate and competence to press for real change in the right places. When it comes to dealing with the big surplus countries, especially, that's not the case now.

GRAPHIC: Jeffrey E. Garten at his office in New York (NYT/Alan Zale)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (61%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); DEVALUATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); FOREIGN LENDING (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: GARTEN, JEFFREY E



110 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: TUESDAY'S STAKES;
Black Politicians Are Leaning Against Some Old Barriers

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE transformation of American politics that began 24 years ago with the passage of the Voting Rights Act may be about to enter a new era.
This Tuesday, L. Douglas Wilder and David Dinkins will be seeking political prizes that blacks have never won before, prizes that can only be attained by extraordinary success in coalition-building among whites. Should they prevail, both men will catapult to the front ranks of American politics.
''What you're seeing is a transition and a maturation in the political process for African Americans,'' said Representative William H. Gray 3d of Pennsylvania, the House Democratic whip. ''Much the same occurred for other groups in America, such as the Irish, the Italians, the Jewish community, the Polish community, whose first political leaders tended to be ethnic leaders, fighting for the ethnic group.'' 
When the 1970's began, fewer than 1,500 blacks held elective office in the United States; today, more than 7,000 do, according to the Joint Center for Political Studies, a Washington research group.
State legislatures, county commissions and local governments that once had only a handful of blacks have gradually been desegregated. Milestones have become routine. In Southern cities with large black populations like Atlanta, civil rights leaders became politicians, then elected officials, then, as the years passed, the Old Guard. One of the oldest, Mayor Coleman A. Young of Detroit, will be seeking his fifth consecutive term this Tuesday.
But for all the progress, many black politicians felt they were pressing against a ceiling in recent years, particularly in the South, where the past 24 years had produced a large, seasoned cadre of black elected officials who were ready for the next step: statewide office. If their ambitions are less grand than the Presidential hopes of the Rev. Jesse Jackson, they may also be more readily achievable.
So it is that Tuesday's election in Virginia, where L. Douglas Wilder may become the first black ever elected governor, is more than just another milestone. Similarly, a mayoral victory by David N. Dinkins in New York City, a city as politically complex as most states, would be another hole in the ceiling.
Neither candidate was taking anything for granted. Democrats were watching the Virginia election with particular anxiety, having seen Mayor Tom Bradley of Los Angeles head into the 1982 gubernatorial election with strong support in the polls, seemingly assured of breaking the color barrier in California, only to lose by about 1 percent.
 
Breakthrough Expected
Still, the expectations were high, the political calculus already being readjusted to reflect a Virginia breakthrough. ''A state like Mississippi or Alabama or Arkansas can certainly have a black governor if Doug Wilder can win on Tuesday,'' said Representative Mike Espy of Mississippi, one of the younger generation of black politicians.
Representative John Lewis, a Georgia Democrat who was a pioneer in the civil rights movement, put it this way: ''There are only so many black majority Congressional districts, only so many black majority towns and cities. To move up and out, people must be able to build broad coalitions.'' Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Wilder are widely viewed as canny coalition builders.
To be sure, there have been black politicians in the past who have run and won in mostly white jurisdictions, notably Mr. Bradley of Los Angeles. But Mr. Bradley was never able to make the leap to Governor, although he tried twice.
Larry Sabato, a professor of political science at the University of Virginia, expects Mr. Wilder to improve upon that. ''Wilder is winning in basically white, conservative territory,'' he said. ''He is disproving the thesis that a black cannot be elected from such a district or state.''
A victory for Mr. Wilder would be a powerful signal to black politicians in the South. Mayor Andrew Young of Atlanta, for example, who is expected to run for Governor of Georgia next year, said he was ''very encouraged'' by Mr. Wilder's ability to build support in rural areas.
Many politicians see Mr. Wilder and Mr. Dinkins as emblematic of what Ronald H. Brown, the national Democratic chairman, calls the ''crossover'' politician, one who has transcended racial pigeon-holing. The population of Virginia is 20 percent black, while the New York City electorate is about 25 percent black.
Mr. Brown notes, ''You've got black voices speaking for the whole party, not just for black Americans.''
Mr. Wilder has campaigned heavily on the issues of abortion rights, development and crime - almost everything but racial pride. Mr. Dinkins has cast himself as a peacemaker who can work across the lines of race and ethnicity.
Both Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Wilder have distanced themselves from the Rev. Jesse Jackson, whose Presidential campaigns were charged with racial pride.
In many ways, Mr. Jackson stands in sharp contrast to the emerging black politicians. He did not climb, step by step, up the ladder of elective office; the two-time Presidential candidate has never held elective office. And some analysts say his lack of such experience might cause him increasing problems. ''His generation may be passing,'' said Mr. Sabato. ''His influence may be reduced, because he's going to have real competition from black politicians who have been elected to something.''
Mayor Young of Atlanta said, ''Jesse will continue to be America's prophet in residence. Doug Wilder will have to administer a government in Virginia. David Dinkins will have to administer a government in New York. They're not going to be competing with Jesse for any spokesman role because they've got another role.''
But Mr. Jackson may be sensing the changing times and preparing to play by new rules. He is still thought to be considering a run for Mayor in the District of Columbia.
As the milestones pass, people like John Lewis, who lived through the rough days of the civil rights movement, when the franchise was a distant dream for many Southern blacks, watch with wonderment.
''When Dr. King spoke in 1957, I think this is what he was talking about,'' he said. ''He kept saying give us the ballot, give us the ballot and we will transform the South.''

GRAPHIC: Lieut. Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia may be elected as the nation's first black governor (Sygma/Paul F. Gero)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CENTER FOR POLITICAL & ECONOMIC STUDIES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; VIRGINIA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BLACKS (IN US); MAYORS; GOVERNORS (US) ELECTION LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ETHNICITY (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (54%); 

PERSON: JACKSON, JESSE L (REV); TONER, ROBIN; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); WILDER, L DOUGLAS (LT GOV) JESSE JACKSON (77%); JOHN LEWIS (58%); NORM COLEMAN (58%); 



111 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
For the U.N., New Thinking on The Third World

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
THREE decades ago when President Kennedy called for the United Nations to launch a decade of development for the third world, he spoke of raising a ''banner of hope'' for the poor and hungry.
Every 10 years the United Nations has renewed the pledge. But the gap between rich and poor is widening as third world living standards decline, leaving the officials charged with planning a strategy for the 1990's to wonder why the fourth ''development decade'' should be any better than the other three.
''A dangerous weariness infects the whole development community,'' said Mahbub ul-Haq, a former Planning Minister of Pakistan and an adviser on the United Nations effort. ''We are at a crossroads.'' John W. Sewell, president of the Washington-based Overseas Development Council, which lobbies for third world aid, speaks of the ''growing aid fatigue'' of Western countries depressed by the third world's unending economic tribulations. 
Many economists believe that if there is hope for the 1990's it will come from a growing acceptance by United Nations delegates of free-market economics. Instead of unilaterally declaring a New International Economic Order, the grand plan to redistribute the world's wealth that alienated Western leaders, planning sessions for the coming decade have leaned toward urging the third world to emulate the Asian success stories of Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan.
In a paper prepared for the United Nations, Keith Griffin of the University of Southern California urged the drafters of the new economic plan to recognize that the most successful countries are those with an entrepreneurial culture.
The record of the decade just ending is cause for pessimism, with third world living standards down 1 percent a year on average. In many countries crushing foreign indebtedness, falling prices for raw materials and misguided economic policies have actually reversed development.
The new effort will not focus entirely on free-market principles. It will also reaffirm the West's unfulfilled commitment from earlier decades to give 0.7 percent of its wealth annually in aid.
While third world countries would be urged to reduce red tape and government interference with the economy, they would also be encouraged to respect the environment and do more to improve the health and education of the poor.
 
Conflicting Interests
Of course many efforts launched by the United Nations have suffered because there was no real way to enforce them. The economic plans are guidelines not mandates. Any call for more market-based economies or other changes could run afoul of the interests of some countries' ruling elites.
But drafters of the new plan are considering ways to encourage governments to adopt reforms and stick to them. In return for changes, some countries might be offered more aid and debt relief from industrialized countries.
Discussions of the strategy began during this year's General Assembly and will conclude next year. Dropped from consideration so far are the approaches of the past, which The Economist recently described as ''based on the idea that the rules of orthodox economics do not hold in developing countries.''
In the 1950's and 60's the United Nations efforts promoted the ideas of Raoul Prebish and other economists who suggested that the way to propel the third world toward economic take-off was with import barriers, large-scale aid, centralized planning and other artificial means of propping up economies.
The efforts were not a complete failure. Taken as a whole the third world achieved the 5 percent growth rate set for the 1960's and narrowly missed the 6 percent target adopted for the second decade. But the countries' industries were uncompetitive and the growth was largely urban, bringing little help to the rural poor.
Growth was especially spectacular in a few East Asian countries. While an Indian's average annual income rose from $150 to $250 between 1950 and 1980, a South Korean's climbed from $350 to $2,900.
 
City vs. Country
Some goals expected to be included in the new plan would be troubling to more affluent and influential city dwellers. Improving health and educational standards in the countryside could mean fewer hospitals and universities for the cities. Realistic exchange rates would make imported luxuries more expensive but exports cheaper.
Professor Griffin argues that a pragmatic new approach could yield results because several trends will be moving the third world's way, reversing setbacks suffered in the 1980's. Easing population pressure in many countries should allow poor families to start improving their lot, while reduced military tensions could release more resources for development.
But the next United Nations development strategy will be more modest than the ''banner of hope'' President Kennedy raised in a more hopeful age.
In a recent study of the United Nations' role in development, Donald Puchala of the University of South Carolina said, ''The only thing that is clear is that all previous designs, plans, schemes and models for enhancing the welfare of mankind have been found wanting.''

GRAPHIC: Children in a village in northern Kenya (Impact Visuals/Amy Zuckerman); graph of average annual growth in per capita G.N.P. in low-and middle-income countries in East Asia, South Asia, Mideast, North Africa and Eastern Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean, Sub-Saharan Africa, 1980-88 (Source: World Bank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (92%); ASIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); KENYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (56%); OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (77%); TRENDS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); LOBBYING (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL JOHN F KENNEDY (90%); 



112 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Japan Tries to Look Friendlier to Americans

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
JAPANESE officials were hopeful that tensions with the United States on trade and other matters might be eased if Ronald Reagan came to lend his soothing voice to the issues of trade and mutual friendship.
 
So they were surprised when
American attention focused not on what Mr. Reagan had to say, but on how much he was paid to say it. The fact that a Japanese conglomerate paid the former President and First Lady $2 million for their nine-day visit did more to reinforce American anxieties over Japan's economic power than to ease those fears.
Mr. Reagan's visit was followed almost immediately by a new Japanese purchase of a symbol of American culture, as the Mitsubishi Estate Company bought controlling interest in Rockefeller Center. That purchase last week stirred the same sort of American hand-wringing as did the Sony Corporation's acquisition last month of Columbia Pictures. 
In their formal comments, Japanese and American officials say the the latest Japanese acquisitions simply exemplify the extraordinary interdependence of the two most powerful economies on earth. They point out that Japan is still well behind Britain in its direct investment in the United States and has only recently pulled slightly ahead of the Netherlands as the second-largest foreign investor.
A Tokyo newspaper spoke for many Japanese recently when it said that given all the other foreign investment, American concern over Japanese acquisitions must arise from racism. Some American officials say there is some truth to this, but say also that the Japanese would be more welcome if trade and investment were a two-way street. Many Japanese officials say privately that they are increasingly fearful that their country's huge increase in American investments is creating a perception of Japan as less a partner than a rival. Recent opinion surveys showing that Americans generally perceive Japan as more of a threat to their well-being than the Soviet Union have been widely publicized in Japan, stirring a negative reaction that disturbs many experts.
''What I fear most is a resurgence of so-called neo-nationalism in this country,'' said a top aide to Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu, referring to nascent feelings that Japan should consider distancing itself from the United States and even sharing some of its advanced technology with the Soviet Union. As it is, there is fear that the tensions are poisoning the atmosphere for reductions in the trade deficit that is the root of the problem.
Japanese point out that no one is forcing Americans to sell their property or businesses. Some Japanese businessmen also profess astonishment that the United States would allow its high-tech industry to cede certain business, such as production of facsimile machines and high-definition television, to the Japanese, or to join in Japanese partnerships rather than compete to produce the next generation of consumer electronics.
 
Intensifying Inequities
Many American believers in free trade who defend foreign investment nonetheless worry about the impact. Some fear that with a slump in American automobile sales, for example, Japanese-owned factories in the United States - generally located in rural areas away from unions and nonwhite workers - could absorb the losses while American-owned factories in urban areas might start laying off their heavily black work forces.
''It's healthy that Japan and the United States are economically interdependent,'' said Kent E. Calder, a leading Japan scholar who is an associate professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton University. ''But there is a great danger that interdependence might intensify inequities in the United States.'' Among the worries Mr. Calder cited was the extensive role of Japanese banks in leveraged buyouts that cause the breakup of American companies and layoffs.
Japan's anxiety about its image led senior officials to send a quiet message over the last year to executives to avoid making ''conspicuous'' purchases of American corporations or real estate. Although several Japanese officials privately expressed dismay at Mitsubishi's purchase of Rockefeller Center, the Government made no comment other than to make clear that such purchases could only occur if there were a willing seller.
Officials in Japan and the United States agree that in the long run the only way to ease frictions is to reduce the $50 billion trade deficit between the two countries, which has given the Japanese an enormous surplus of dollars with which to make their big American purchases.
Nothing in the last five years has had much effect -not the various demands by the United States that Japan open up its markets to American products, and not the sharp devaluation of the dollar starting in 1985. So foreign investment in the United States is likely to grow as long as businessmen in the increasingly interdependent global economy put aside sentimental considerations and do what to them makes economic sense.

GRAPHIC: Japanese television correspondent reporting last week from Rockefeller Center on the Mitsubishi Estate Company's purchase of control of the Rockefeller Group, which owns Rockefeller Center and Radio City Music Hall (Agence France-Presse/Don Emmert)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8802 (TSE) (91%); SON (LSE) (69%); SNE (NYSE) (69%); 6758 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (91%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (91%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (91%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (91%); SIC6514 OPERATORS OF DWELLINGS OTHER THAN APARTMENT BUILDINGS (91%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (91%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (91%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (91%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (91%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); NETHERLANDS (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI ESTATE CO LTD (91%); SONY CORP (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); ACQUISITIONS (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (62%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R RONALD REAGAN (92%); 



113 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Concern Over the Costs Of Malpractice Liability

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
''A CHILD falls off a swing and bumps his head,'' Dr. Otis R. Bowen, a physician and former Secretary of Health and Human Services, used to tell visitors. ''In the old days, you'd tell him to go home and put ice on it. Now you give him $100 worth of X-rays and maybe a CAT scan, and then you tell him to go home and put ice on it.''
The tests are part of a cycle that pits patients, doctors and lawyers against one another, and is under renewed scrutiny by lawmakers and health experts. They contend that high judgments in malpractice cases have inflated costs and undermined health care by discouraging doctors from high-risk practices. 
Their target is ''defensive medicine,'' tests and procedures performed chiefly to help doctors and hospitals protect themselves from possible malpractice lawsuits.
''It's obvious that while health costs continue to skyrocket, the enormous cost coming from tort liability, including defensive medicine, cries out for reform,'' said Senator Pete Domenici, Republican of New Mexico.
Tort suits and insurance regulation are generally matters of state law, but Congress has some regulatory authority under the Constitution's interstate commerce clause. Advisers to Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, say he is drafting legislation that could place a ceiling on damages for non-economic injury, such as pain and suffering, and limit attorneys' fees in malpractice suits.
Many lawyers oppose such efforts. Russ Herman, a New Orleans attorney and president of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, said, ''It is grossly unfair, under the American system of justice, for professionals, be they lawyers, doctors or others who reap maximum economic and social benefits, to limit their own responsibility for damages that they cause their innocent patients or clients.''
''Medicine ought to be defensive,'' he added, ''as should every profession.''
 
A Judgment Call
It is difficult to tell, of course, when tests are necessary, and increasingly sophisticated diagnostic procedures have in themselves led to higher costs. Limits on malpractice costs can address part of the problem, however.
The tests, procedures and consultations performed to avoid risk may help do so; the total cost of malpractice claims, including legal expenses, declined last year to $4.1 billion from $4.2 billion in 1987, and insurance rates have been going down. But health experts say that $4 billion is far less than the cost of testing and treatment performed to avoid suits.
A study by the American Medical Association found that in 1985, malpractice costs, including those for defensive medicine as well as insurance premiums and payments to plaintiffs, accounted for $15.4 billion in doctor bills, or 18.6 percent of the total spent on doctors.
Senator David Durenberger of Minnesota, a Republican on the Medicare subcommittee of the Finance Committee, said that ''the evidence that we have is that the unnecessary utilization of procedures may be as high as 25 to 40 percent of the total cost of procedures.'' The reasons, he said, included both fear of liability and local practices, as when ''everybody has a hysterectomy or a heart bypass.''
In addition, health experts say doctors are discouraged from high-risk patients and procedures that involve risks worth taking.
Obstetrics has been especially hard hit. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists reported that in 1987, 12.4 percent of its members said they had left obstetrics and practiced only gynecology. Of those remaining, 27 percent had reduced their high-risk obstetrical care.
Martin J. Hatlie, director of the A.M.A.'s panel on professional liability and insurance, said: ''Doctors do make mistakes. They do injure people, and they have an obligation to do whatever they can to minimize that.''
 
'No Guidelines'
The problem, Mr. Hatlie said, is in claims like pain and suffering that go beyond medical costs and loss of income. ''There are no guidelines,'' he said. ''It's a very distorted process.''
Mr. Hatlie said patients in nations with national health care undergo far fewer tests because malpractice settlements are far smaller. This, he said, is in part because in the United States, awards anticipate future medical care, which is assured all citizens in nations with national health care. ''Doctors are much more at risk here than in England,'' he said, ''where no future medical expenses are part of the verdict.''
Malpractice premiums vary according to specialty and geography. The St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, which cut premiums an average of 14 percent in 32 states in July, says its highest average is in California ($43,901 a year) and its lowest in Nebraska ($5,055). The company insures 31,000 doctors in 42 states, which do not include New York.
In New York, the Medical Malpractice Insurance Association, an association of insurers, charges its highest rate, $124,000, to neurologists practicing in Nassau, Suffolk or Sullivan counties. The lowest rate, $3,771, is paid by dermatologists in rural upstate New York. The average premium is $38,000.
Most states have changed their laws governing malpractice cases, but in limited ways. Massachusetts, Michigan and Minnesota put a $1 million ceiling on damages like pain and suffering, loss of consortium and ''hedonic'' damages such as loss of enjoyment of life. ''That's a fairly high ceiling that would affect only a small number of cases,'' said Mr. Hatlie. In addition, there are many exemptions, such as one in Minnesota for ''any serious injury.''
Some states, including California, have limited attorneys' fees in malpractice cases. Others, including Indiana and Louisiana, have created government funds financed by health care providers and insurance companies, which pay claims above $100,000.
But many experts urge more limits. ''The best efforts in Washington to get the states to address this issue have failed,'' said Thomas R. Burke, a private health consultant who was chief of staff to Dr. Bowen. ''and Federal action is going to be needed.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing; graph of average dollar amounts of intial jury verdicts against doctors and hospitals for malpractice, 1980-1988 (Source: Jury Verdict Research Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SUITS AND LITIGATION; MALPRACTICE; DOCTORS; PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS LITIGATION (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); TORTS (90%); DAMAGES (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (90%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LAWYERS (89%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (89%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MEDICARE (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (71%); INSURANCE (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (68%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN ORRIN HATCH (54%); PETE DOMENICI (54%); 



114 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION: Mayor of a Troubled City;
For New York, Two Who Would Be Different

 BODY:
ON Tuesday, New York City voters will elect either the first black mayor for the nation's largest city, where blacks account for about a third of the population, or the first Republican in a generation in a city where Democrats outnumber Republicans 5 to 1.
Whatever the choice, the election signals a turning point in politics and government after 12 years of Edward I. Koch at City Hall.
When Mr. Koch took office, the city was emerging from a fiscal crisis and entering an economic boom. Now the city again faces fiscal difficulties. Crack, AIDS and the homeless are severe strains. In a city of diversity, racial divisions are pronounced. 
The mayoral campaign began last winter with four Democrats and two Republicans. Now it is down to two main candidates, David N. Dinkins, the Democrat, and Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal. Six minor-party candidates, including Ronald S. Lauder, the Conservative Party nominee, and Henry Hewes, running on the line of the Right to Life Party, will also be on the ballot.
For all the millions of dollars that were raised and spent, including public matching funds for the first time in a New York municipal election, the campaign leading up to two scheduled debates this weekend has been largely a duel from a distance. Television commercials, sometimes negative, sometimes positive, have been the weapons of choice.
When Mr. Dinkins and Mr. Giuliani have discussed issues, their differences were more in nuance than in substance. Both expressed concern over the quality of life and over the impact of crime and drugs. Outside personalities like Jesse Jackson and Jackie Mason seemed to stir as much comment as Mr. Dinkins or Mr. Giuliani. Here is a look at the candidates and their campaigns.
 
DAVID N. DINKINS
THE Manhattan Borough President since 1985, Mr. Dinkins, 62 years old, is the city's highest ranking black official. Born in Trenton, Mr. Dinkins, a lawyer, attended Howard University and the Brooklyn Law School. Introduced to politics by his wife's father, a Harlem district leader, he served one term in the State Assembly in 1965 before his district was reapportioned. He later served on the City Board of Elections and as City Clerk from 1975 to 1985. In the Democratic primary on Sept. 12 he drew 51 percent of the vote, defeating Mayor Koch, Richard Ravitch, former head of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and Harrison J. Goldin, the City Comptroller.
 
Stand on the issues
As the front-runner, Mr. Dinkins has tried not to rock the boat by proposing dramatic initiatives. He favors hiring more police officers, assigning an officer to every subway train, postponing construction of a new municipal garbage incinerator in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, using alternative fuels like natural gas in city vehicles to ease air pollution, and cutting city spending by 1 percent across the board - except for the police - to meet a looming budget shortfall. He opposes increasing subway fares, putting tolls on East River bridges and restricting cars in midtown Manhattan.
 
Campaign theme
Asserting that he can unite people in a time of racial tension, he says in his speeches, ''I will reach out to all the family of New York.''
 
Campaign style
On the stump, he is unruffled, courtly and quiet-spoken.
 
Political strengths
He has enthusiastic support among black voters and strong backing from labor unions. In the primary he was supported by 29 percent of white voters and 54 percent of Hispanic voters.
 
Political weaknesses
Critics see his cautious and deliberate manner as indecisiveness. Questions about the management of his personal finances have hurt him. His association with the Rev. Jesse Jackson has also hurt him among Jewish voters, who cast about 1 in 5 votes.
 
Financial support
For the general election campaign, he reported raising $3,085,175 and spending $2,982,520 as of Oct. 30.
 
Campaign's best moment
On winning the primary, he hushed his supporters who jeered the mention of Mr. Koch, saying, ''Oh, no, we're all together now.''
 
Campaign's worst moment
Accounts of apparent discrepancies between the $1 million value Mr. Dinkins once placed on his stock in a communications company and his sale of the stock to his son two years later in 1985 for $58,000 revived memories of Mr. Dinkins's failure to file income tax returns for four years ending in 1972. After not responding at first, he provided information that helped explain the discrepancy.
 
Surprise of the campaign
While some politicians doubted his ability to raise a large war chest, his fund raising for the primary and general election is approaching Mr. Koch's 1985 mark of $7.5 million.
 
What he must do to win
He needs to get a high turnout of black voters and to make strong inroads among white voters as he did in the primary.
 
RUDOLF W. GIULIANI
AS the United States Attorney in Manhattan from 1983 to last January, Mr. Giuliani, 45 years old, gained fame for prosecuting cases involving organized crime, white-collar crime and political corruption. Born in Brooklyn, he attended Manhattan College and the New York University Law School. A Democrat who switched to the Republicans, he was the Associate Attorney General in the Reagan Justice Department before becoming the prosecutor in New York. To friends he was an aggressive fighter against corruption; to enemies he was a publicity seeker. In the Republican primary, he easily defeated Ronald S. Lauder.
 
Stand on the issues
As the acknowledged underdog, Mr. Giuliani has made more specific proposals than his opponent has. He favors an increase in police officers, state legislation to allow confiscation of the assets of drug dealers, a new municipal garbage incinerator in Brooklyn and ''rescue shelters'' to screen various types of homeless people. He opposes putting tolls on East River bridges or restricting cars or trucks in midtown Manhattan. He also opposes Mr. Dinkins's proposal to put a police officer on every subway train, saying it would reduce the transit police's flexibility.
 
Campaign theme
Vowing to root out ''crime, crack and corruption,'' he has invoked the memory of Fiorello H. La Guardia in calling for a fusion, or bipartisan government for the city.
 
Campaign style
He initially seemed stiff and humorless at campaign stops, but recently he has appeared more relaxed, doffing his jacket and occasionally bantering with the crowds.
 
Political strengths
Mr. Giuliani has sought to stress his reputation as a crime fighter and his independence, which, he says, will be needed to overcome the city's problems.
 
Political weaknesses
Making his first run for elective office, Mr. Giuliani has to overcome the Democrats' 5-to-1 advantage in enrollment. Opponents have questioned whether being an aggressive prosecutor was adequate training for a mayor.
 
Financial support
For the general election campaign, he reported raising $1,989,573 and spending $2,035,662 as of Oct. 30.
 
Campaign's best moment
After weeks of trailing by double-digit numbers in various polls, Mr. Giuliani's standing improved after Mr. Dinkins went on the defensive to answer questions about apparent discrepancies in his valuation of stock he owned.
 
Campaign's worst moment
Racial remarks by the comedian Jackie Mason forced Mr. Giuliani to distance himself from his onetime ambassador to the Jewish community.
 
Surprise of the campaign
On the day he announced his candidacy, Mr. Giuliani spent much of his time fielding questions about a Daily News article saying his law firm, White & Case, was a registered agent for Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, the Panamanian dictator.
 
What he has to do to win
To overcome the Democrats' numerical advantage, he must create enough doubts about Mr. Dinkins's ability to govern and convince enough Democrats to vote Republican.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS MAYORS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CITIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); LAWYERS (66%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); NATURAL GAS (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); 



115 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION: A Governor for Harder Times;
For New Jersey, Two Who Stress Differences

 BODY:
THE next governor of New Jersey will inherit a state that has seen boom times but now faces harder days. Presided over for eight years by Thomas H. Kean, a popular Republican who by law is barred from a third term, New Jersey's economy has expanded. Now the state is facing a budget squeeze as it deals with some of the results of development like traffic and environmental problems while trying to eradicate the decay of Newark and Camden.
The two main candidates, Jim Courter and James J. Florio, both have extensive experience in Congress, where they have more in common than their campaigns would have voters believe. Indeed, the gubernatorial race has been nasty, with Mr. Courter, the Republican, and Mr. Florio, the Democrat, accusing each other of misrepresentation and misdeeds. 
State law provides matching funds and limits campaign spending to $5 million for each candidate. The candidates agree that the biggest problems are drugs, crime, AIDS, waste disposal, high auto insurance rates and a slipping economy but disagree on how to handle them. Most polls put Mr. Florio in a commanding lead. Here is a look at the campaign.
 
JIM COURTER
ONCE a registered Democrat, Mr. Courter, 48 years old, is a conservative Republican from Hackettstown who has been a United States Representative since 1978. He is a former legal aid lawyer and was a Peace Corps volunteer in Venezuela. His base in the northwestern corner of the state supplied him with enough votes in the June Republican primary election to defeat seven other candidates with 30 percent of the vote. Governor Kean did not endorse anyone in the primary.
 
Stand on the issues
He would bar children and teachers who are infected with the AIDS virus from public schools, setting up separate education for the children. He says Mr. Florio is a machine politician who runs Camden, which the Republican calls the state's most corrupt area. Mr. Courter favors less government regulation, and would combat high insurance rates by encouraging competition. He pledges no new taxes and would cap state spending.
 
Campaign style
Starting with little name recognition despite his 11 years in Congress, he has traveled extensively through the state to overcome that. He is a relaxed and easygoing campaigner.
 
Political strengths
New Jersey voters like the prosperity that has come during the Republicans' leadership and Mr. Courter has stressed his ties with Mr. Kean and President Bush.
 
Political weaknesses
Critics say he has little background in the problems that New Jersey faces. In the House, he has specialized in foreign affairs and defense. He modified his position on abortion several times, and now says that while he personally opposes abortion in nearly all cases, he would not prohibit state financing of abortions.
 
Campaign's best moment
In their first debate Mr. Florio, asked about a business deal involving two of his associates, avoided saying whether the associates had been wrong. ''They were wrong,'' Mr. Courter responded, ''so Jim, don't throw stones if you live in a glass house.''
 
Campaign's worst moment
He said he would support a law barring homosexuals from teaching or serving in other positions that would put them in contact with children; he later modified his position to say it was only his own opinion.
 
Surprise of the campaign
The Republicans have been less than enthusiastic in their support.
 
JAMES J. FLORIO
THIS is Mr. Florio's third try for the governor's job; he was unsuccessful in 1977 and in 1981, when he lost a substantial lead and the election to Mr. Kean by only 1,797 votes out of 2.3 million votes cast. He was first elected a United States Representative from the Camden area in 1974. Now 52 years old, he is a lawyer and a Navy veteran. With his name well known statewide and with the support of most of the state Democratic organizations, he polled 70 percent of the vote in a three-candidate race in the June primary.
 
Stand on the issues
Mr. Florio says the government should play a more active role in dealing with New Jersey's problems than it has during the Kean years. He favors the creation of a state prosecutor's office to enforce environmental laws. He says he would delay new landfills and incinerators until he could study other solutions. He supports the death penalty, but would resist expanding it; supports a ban on assault rifles; does not want new taxes, but won't rule them out. To solve the auto insurance problem, he would disband the state-run pool that insures drivers who cannot get coverage elsewhere and would closely regulate the industry. He would not limit abortions or state financing of them.
 
Campaign style
In the 1981 campaign, Mr. Florio was criticized for being brusque, condescending and given to long, boring answers. He has become friendlier and is more at ease in campaigning.
 
Political strengths
He is known as a strong fighter for the environment because of his Congressional work in setting up the Superfund. His views on social issues tend to be more in line with those of most New Jerseyans, based on opinion polls.
 
Political weaknesses
Critics say that Mr. Florio is a loner and that his political base of Camden, the state's poorest area, has not improved during his 15 years in Congress or under his control of the local party.
 
Campaign's best moment
As Mr. Courter praised his own record on environmental issues in their first debate, Mr. Florio retorted, ''Give me a break!''
 
Campaign's worst moment
Despite his attempts to appeal to blacks, he failed to appear at a meeting with state leaders of the N.A.A.C.P. because he was meeting his wife for a wedding anniversary dinner.
 
Surprise of the campaign
His lead in the polls has been unshaken.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PEACE CORPS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LEGAL AID (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AIDS & HIV (74%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); ABORTION (62%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (53%); VOLUNTEERS (50%); VIRUSES (50%); 

PERSON: COURTER, JIM (REPR); FLORIO, JAMES J (REPR) JAMES A COURTER (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



116 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: THE EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK;
Costs of the Intifada

BYLINE: By JACK ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
On the brown velvet sofa in the living room, the father gestures at the street, silent except for the occasional rush of an Israeli jeep. Suddenly, his three boys tumble downstairs, their dark eyes big with alarm: ''Come quick, come quick! There's a big machine!''
The man leads his visitors upstairs to a bedroom that looks familiar to Americans with its Formica bunks, TV and board games. From the window, one can see Israeli soldiers clustered in front of a carpenter's house a block away as a crane lifts the lathe from his shop. The boys are frozen to the window, fear and fury in their eyes. 
Why the crane? Why the deserted streets? Why the heavy military presence? Because here in the Christian town of Beit Sahour a few minutes from Jerusalem, Palestinians have been fighting the newest battle against Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza. Despite daytime curfews and harsh Israeli efforts to make examples of people, the residents of Beit Sahour have refused to pay their taxes - even when that meant seizures of property to be sold at auction.
Last week, the tax boycott ended in a stalemate, an outcome that says much about the whole 23-month uprising, the intifada. For it too seems to have settled into a stalemate. Israel seems to have decided that it can live with the intifada, live with the status quo. But truly, there is no status quo. Israelis pay a painful price for containing the uprising - a price that abrades the army, hobbles the economy and corrodes democracy.
The Army: Israeli troops are not monsters. They struggle to be stern without being brutal. Their bullets, mostly, are rubber. But policing civilians involves constant pressure, especially for Israel's citizen army. Many of the reservist soldiers hate this duty, so alien to the intrepid image of the hostage rescue in Entebbe. The steady erosion of morale worries Israeli commanders.
The Economy: In financial terms, the costliest price is the loss of ''exports'' to the West Bank. Before the intifada, Palestinians bought a billion dollars a year in Israeli products; with boycotts, the figure is down 30 percent. As one Palestinian says, in front of a graffiti-spattered wall, ''The only Israeli product we buy now is spray paint.''
Palestinians also continue to withhold their labor, putting costly pressure on agriculture and construction.
And tourism, which dropped 40 percent with the intifada, is only starting to recover. All told, the Finance Ministry estimates the intifada is costing the country two percentage points of growth - in a year when the economy may barely grow at all.
Democracy: It's one thing to put down short-term rioting. It's another to keep fighting what Justice Minister Dan Meridor calls existential war. Before the occupation, Israel was 85 percent Jewish; there was no tension between remaining both a Jewish state and a democracy. Now, counting the 800,000-plus Palestinians in the occupied territories, Israel is 65 percent Jewish.
The longer Palestinians remain subject to ''administrative detention'' and are deprived of self-government, the more Israelis corrode their own devotion to democracy.
Even so, Prime Minister Shamir's Government seems willing to pay these prices. The hard-nosed calculation seems to be that there are only three levers that might force giving land for peace. The first is world opinion, aroused by the intifada. But the intifada has slipped to page 16 of the world's press, and the Palestinians know that to escalate would delight those Israelis eager for an excuse to use real instead of rubber bullets.
A second lever is domestic political opposition; it exists but it is not strong enough to force change. Labor Party stalwarts are reduced to pleading for the third lever -pressure from the United States. That's not promising either. U.S. diplomats voice constructive intentions, but at the moment they are understandably distracted by the larger intifada that Mikhail Gorbachev has unleashed in the Communist world.
So what of the Palestinian intifada? It will probably drag on, mired in bickering about this five-point plan or that six-point initiative, and the fear and fury will harden in the dark-eyed boys of Beit Sahour.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: EAST WEST BANK (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP; ISRAEL, STATE OF

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BOYCOTTS (87%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); VANDALISM (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); RIOTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (71%); AUCTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); TRENDS (60%); CURFEW (53%); HOSTAGE TAKING (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, JACK TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 



117 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Global Lukewarming

 BODY:
George Bush's campaign pledge to pay more attention to the environment was good news coming after eight years of Reagan indifference. His early appointments were generally sound, his proposals challenging, his words bullish. ''Those who think we're powerless to do anything about the greenhouse effect,'' he trumpeted, ''are forgetting about the White House effect.'' 
Where has this ardor gone? In a pattern distressingly like the Administration's disarray over Soviet policy, infighting and conflicting signals now obscure the clarity of Mr. Bush's original commitment on at least two priority issues.
Global Warming. Environmental questions are dauntingly complex, and solving them requires painful trade-offs between conservation and economic growth. The so-called greenhouse effect is no exception: experts disagree on just how serious it already is. But no respectable scientist denies that pouring gases like carbon dioxide into the atmosphere will eventually cause the earth to warm up, with consequences that are potentially catastrophic.
The U.S. produces 25 percent of the world's carbon dioxide emissions. To William Reilly, director of the Environmental Protection Agency, this imposes a special obligation on Washington to develop a timetable and strategy.
Mr. Reilly had hoped to carry at least the outline of a policy to an international conference on global warming that begins tomorrow in the Netherlands. He's going, but without a policy. Powerful voices in the Administration - including the Department of Energy and the White House chief of staff, John Sununu - insist on further study, even though 14 months have passed since Mr. Bush's ringing declaration of war on global warming.
Clean Fuels. A tough new clean-air bill is slowly wending its way through Congress, thanks in part to Mr. Bush's original bill and the efforts of clean-air advocates like California's Henry Waxman to strengthen it. But one of the bill's most important provisions has been weakened beyond recognition - and Mr. Bush is largely to blame. The provision would have required Detroit to produce one million cars designed to run on alternative fuels by 1997.
There's disagreement among experts on which alternative fuels would be cleanest or cheapest. But Mr. Bush's original proposal would at least have encouraged aggressive investment in new technology by reluctant auto makers and oil companies.
At a critical moment in the deliberations of Mr. Waxman's subcommittee, however, Mr. Sununu sent word that the White House would accept a weaker provision. Mr. Reilly sent the opposite message. The confusion was fatal: Mr. Bush's cherished alternative-fuels provision was gutted. By allowing two key aides to send conflicting signals, the President had sandbagged himself.
There are now fears of vacillation on a third environmental concern: acid rain. The Bush bill would attack acid rain by requiring utilities to halve their discharges of sulfur dioxide by the year 2000. Mr. Sununu said in a letter to Mr. Waxman that the White House still wants a tough plan. But there is no evidence of aggressive White House lobbying. That's because the White House's chief lobbyist -the man who would be the Environmental President - has forgotten that legislation, like horseshoes, requires follow-through.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; ACID RAIN; EDITORIALS; CHLOROFLUOROCARBONS EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AIR QUALITY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ACID RAIN (87%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (86%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (86%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HENRY WAXMAN (58%); 



118 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Steel Makes Better Sense Than Concrete in Earthquake Zones

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Reporters are asking the wrong questions, and California structural engineers are trying to justify the unjustifiable, in the collapse of the Nimitz and Embarcadero elevated freeways from a distant earthquake near Santa Cruz, Calif. Federal and California legislators may have to fly to Japan to get honest answers to the correct question: Why were these and other critical structures built with weak, brittle concrete, instead of strong, resilient structural steel?
Legislators must halt the use of deadly reinforced concrete in California by requiring that (a) all freeway structures and other critical above-grade structures be constructed of structural steel with a safety factor of at least eight; (b) the engineering department at the University of California, Berkeley, stop popularizing and promoting reinforced concrete for California, and (c) local governments make dangerous ground conditions in their jurisdictions public by permanently posting maps and explanations. 
Japanese engineers generally refuse to use concrete for above-grade structures because it is rigid, weak and heavy, and quality control is very difficult. One could not find a material more dangerous in a seismic zone. Here are the facts:
* Steel is eight times stronger in tension and shear than concrete.
* Steel is resilient; concrete is not.
* Steel is uniform at the molecular level and therefore is far more predictable than concrete.
* Steel does not have a quality control problem.
Why are engineers in this country using concrete? I believe the answer begins in the publish-or-perish atmosphere of the Berkeley campus, where the engineering department has for years championed use of this material in reams of reinforced concrete research. Generations of structural engineers have been trained at Berkeley.
I retired from the Federal Government (General Services Administration) in 1986 after 25 years as project director on major projects in California. My chief structural engineer and I refused to follow the agency's directive, which demanded that the results of an economic analysis determine whether our buildings be constructed of reinforced concrete or structural steel. The directive may be appropriate in Ohio, but is clearly wrong in California.
 
RAYMOND MATHIS
 Berkeley, Calif., Oct. 22, 1989
 
The writer is an architect.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); STEEL AND IRON; CONCRETE; ROADS AND TRAFFIC ENGINEERING (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: MATHIS, RAYMOND



119 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: What Tax Lawyers Do Mustn't Be Seen as Sin

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I may qualify, in Theodore Seto's view (''Snookered on Taxes,'' Op-Ed, Oct. 17), as a ''fancy, high-priced'' tax lawyer, although I view my charges as reasonable and point out, in addition, that those fees usually qualify for tax deductibility to my clients.
I couldn't disagree more with the substance of his article, however. In essence, Mr. Seto is suggesting that some element of immorality exists in the ''sheltering'' of income from the clutches of the taxing authorities. I cannot subscribe to the point of view that planning one's finances so as to maximize one's after-tax income is in any way, shape or form an unpatriotic act.
Both history and common sense suggest that a cut in the rate of taxes on capital gains would spur the economy, thereby generating more, not less, tax revenue.
Whatever the ultimate impact of any tax-law tinkering of this type turns out to be, Mr. Seto would do well to recall, though, that the deficit he bemoans comes about, not because my clients (and presumably his, as well) consult with us in order to pay no more than what they lawfully owe, but because of the refusal of our solons in Washington to rein in their bloated spending habits and to limit their expenditures in a way that accords with a realistic projection of revenues.
 
IRA B. STECHEL
 New York, Oct. 19, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAXES TAX LAW (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); LAWYERS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); 

PERSON: SETO, THEODORE P; STECHEL, IRA B



120 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 23, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: The Reversals of History

BYLINE: By Terence Smith; Terence Smith, correspondent for CBS News, covered the Presidencies of Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Former President Jimmy Carter is back in the capital for an informal reunion with staffers from his Administration and a symposium in which he'll report on his mediation efforts in eastern Africa, Central America and elsewhere.
Ronald Reagan, fresh from the Orient, is back in his Bel Air counting house going over the receipts from his multi million-dollar visit to Japan.
The contrast between the after-office lives of the former Presidents reinforces a heretical notion I have -namely, that history will soon reverse the popular images of the two men and give Mr. Carter higher grades as President than Mr. Reagan. To be sure, the majority of Americans still regard Jimmy Carter as a failed President - a symbol of indecision, ineptitude and weakness. Mention Jimmy Carter and they think of gas lines, soaring inflation and -most tellingly - the humiliation of the Iran hostage crisis that began 10 years ago this weekend. 
Ronald Reagan, on the other hand, left office at the pinnacle of his popularity. Despite the embarrassments of the Iran-contra affair, the continued captivity of the American hostages in Lebanon and the lingering stench of scandal that surrounded his outgoing Administration, he went back to California bathed in the warm glow of public affection.
But history is a harsher judge. Historians will note, for example, that it was Jimmy Carter who focused the nation's attention on the need for energy conservation and defined human rights as a legitimate consideration in foreign policy.
Scholars will credit Mr. Carter with overcoming steep political odds in winning ratification of the Panama Canal treaty and - most important - personally engineering the major foreign policy achievement of recent decades: the Camp David accords and Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty.
Mr. Reagan will rightly get credit for his brilliant use of the bully pulpit, for his active encouragement of democracy over dictatorship and for recognizing the opportunities presented by Mikhail Gorbachev's reforms. His signature on the INF treaty assures his place in the annals of arms control.
But analysts will also recognize that Ronald Reagan presided over a meltdown of the Federal Government during the last eight years. Fundamental management was abandoned in favor of rhetoric and imagery. A cynical disregard for the art of government led to wide-scale abuse.
Only now are we coming to realize the cost of Mr. Reagan's laissez-faire: the crisis in the savings and loan industry, the scandal in the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the deterioration of the nation's nuclear weapons facilities, the dangerous state of the air traffic control system - not to mention the staggering deficit. The neglect was pernicious, not benign, and the bills, measured in hundreds of billions of dollars, are coming due with alarming speed.
Judgments of the two men at this point are premature and necessarily subjective. But my suspicion is that hard-headed historical review, when it is finally done, will enhance the image of the man from Plains, and tarnish that of the squire of Bel Air.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PANAMA (79%); LEBANON (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BEL AIR MARKETS (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (88%); SCANDALS (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); HISTORY (70%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (61%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); CITIES (50%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, TERENCE; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; CARTER, JIMMY RONALD REAGAN (93%); JIMMY CARTER (91%); 



121 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY

 BODY:

Cosmonauts to Caviar in the Soviet Union
Two new travel opportunities in the Soviet Union seem to illustrate how the Russians are embracing tourism with fresh zeal. One explores the Soviet space program; the other will carry visitors by private train.
Highlights of the nine-day space tour, starting this month and running through April, are trips to Star City, the cosmonauts' training facility outside Moscow, a visit with Russian cosmonauts and visits to the Korolyov Museum, named for the chief Soviet rocket designer, in Moscow, and the Tsiolkovsky Museum, named for the father of the Soviet space program, in Kaluga, 90 miles southwest of the capital. Hotel stays are in Leningrad and Moscow. The tours range from $1,899 a person, double occupancy, to $2,279, and include round-trip air fare. More information: the World of Eva Harris, 54 Danbury Road, Suite 309, Ridgefield, Conn. 06877; 800-937-1550. 
The rail tour is Russia by Private Train, and the train is the Anna Karenina. The two four-passenger cars were originally built for use by government officials. The service is available for private charter, and travelers are allowed to plan the itinerary. The tour operator suggests two routes. Both start in Leningrad and end in Moscow but take different tracks. One, a 12-day Golden Ring trip, centers on the central and northeastern region, taking in cities around Moscow. The other is a 14-day Five Republics tour. It goes through Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Byelorussia and the Ukraine.
Generally, the two cars are coupled to scheduled trains, but they can be hauled by their own engine. On most tours, travelers live and dine aboard their private cars, which also carry two attendants who prepare the meals. Caviar, smoked sturgeon and Russian wines will be served. Each car has two bedrooms, a dining room, a lounge and a full bathroom and its own air-conditioning and heating system. The price is $5,820 a person for 12 days, $6,855 for 14 days. The tours start in April and run to Oct. 31. More information: Abercrombie & Kent, 1420 Kensington Road, Oak Brook, Ill. 60521; 312-954-2944 or 800-323-7308 outside Illinois.
 
Europe in '92: Effect on Travel
The typical traveler to Europe after the 1992 economic restructuring designed to integrate the Common Market countries takes effect will reserve flight and hotel room by calling one toll-free number, rent a room that costs less but is farther away from historic downtown areas and pay for rooms with any number of credit cards, travel experts said at a New York symposium.
These tourists will take advantage of less restrictive boundaries within the European Community by visiting more countries and, as a consequence, make less rigid travel plans, the experts said at the symposium sponsored by Quality International, the hotel chain, last month. In short, they concluded, once all internal barriers to trade are dismantled trips to the Old World will seem a lot more like a trip within the United States.
''We have to walk a fine line,'' said Gerald W. Petitt, chief operating officer for Quality International, which manages many hotels in Europe. He said that what he called the failure of Holiday Inn to succeed with Americans in Europe demonstrates that ''when people visit Europe they want a foreign experience.'' On the other hand, hotels have to be wary of scaring off European travelers, who make up 75 percent of hotel occupants.
Still, Mr. Petitt said, tourists from all countries are coming to expect such American-style amenities as a large bed, computerized reservations systems and cable television in their rooms. There is a large market for mid-priced hotels (about $30 to $35 a person a night), which is currently neglected by European hoteliers, he added.
Experts on tourism and the European community from A.T.&T. and the United States Department of Commerce said that travel should benefit from a unified currency, simplified customs and a more coherent phone system.
Debra Miller, an economist at the Commerce Department's Office of Industrial Trade, said that an agreement to unify production standards throughout the European community would lower the cost for manufactured items and construction. Mr. Petitt estimated that the cost of hotel construction should drop by 20 to 30 percent and that, since hotels usually set room rates on the basis of construction costs, rates should also drop 20 to 30 percent.
 
Shipping Skis
Skiers irked by carrying equipment through busy airports, or by airlines that lose their skis, can have them delivered by Federal Express. Couriers will pick up skis at home or office and deliver them to condo, inn or chateau. The company said that skis should be packed in a ski bag with the FedEx air bill taped to the outside of the bag.
The cost from anywhere to anywhere in the United States is the same; weight, not distance, determines the price. A pair of skis and bag weighing 25 pounds costs $63.75 for delivery the following morning; a 15-pound package costs $51.25. For delivery after two days, prices are $36.50 for 25 pounds and $26.50 for 15 pounds. Delivery to Europe costs more. Basic price for a 25-pound pair delivered to French Alpine resorts is $150. More information: 800-238-5355.
 
Airlines Add French Cities
Flights from Newark International Airport to the French cities of Bordeaux, Marseilles, Montpellier, Nantes and Toulouse were started recently by UTA French Airlines, the only airline offering nonstop or direct service to them from the United States. Passengers on other airlines have to change planes in Paris. UTA's weekly schedule, aimed mainly at business travelers, includes three nonstop flights to Bordeaux (Tuesday, Friday and Sunday), three flights to Toulouse (nonstop on Saturday, via Bordeaux on Tuesday and Sunday) and two to Marseilles (via Nantes on Monday and Toulouse on Saturday). A nonstop flight operates to Nantes on Mondays; Montpellier is served on Friday via Bordeaux.
Air France is also inaugurating direct flights to four French cities, in addition to Paris, from Kennedy International Airport. (It also flies nonstop to Nice in summer; a connection is required in Paris in winter.) New York-Lille-Mulhouse service starts Nov. 9, departing on Thursday, with the return flight on Friday. A Sunday flight from New York and a Monday departure from Mulhouse and Lille will be added Jan. 7. New York-Lyons-Strasbourg flights will depart Monday and Saturday starting Nov. 11; service in the other direction, on Thursday and Sunday, begins Nov. 9. Flights to Lille and Lyons are nonstop; they continue to Mulhouse and Strasbourg without a change of plane. American Airlines has had a daily nonstop from Kennedy to Lyons since May.
The new Airbus A310-300 will be used on Air France flights to the four cities, initially with two-class service. The airline plans to introduce three-class service in March.
 
ROCK ERA EXHIBIT IN LONDON
A permanent exhibition of rock has opened at the London Pavilion, 1 Piccadilly Circus. The Rock Circus represents a history of rock from the 1950's to the present. Visitors see wax figures and electronically controlled models of rock stars and listen to information about them and their music through headphones programmed to respond to each exhibit. At the end of the tour there is a theater show with a revolving auditorium and three stages where electronically controlled, moving, speaking and singing models of singers and groups perform. The Beatles, for example, perform in a reconstruction of the Cavern Club in Liverpool. Among other artists are Elvis Presley, Stevie Wonder, Bruce Springsteen, David Bowie, Elton John and Michael Jackson. Rock Circus is open every day except Christmas from 10 A.M. to 10 P.M. Entry fee: about $6.75, $5 for children.
The exhibition is on the itinerary of a one-week Beatles package that also includes a seat at Paul McCartney's sold-out Jan. 3 concert in Birmingham. Guided bus tours of the Beatles' old haunts in Liverpool, and, in London, a recording session at the Abbey Road Studios, a visit to Cynthia Lennon's new restaurant and a New Year's Eve party are also on the program. The Dec. 29 tour costs $1,349 a person, double occupancy, including air fare, hotels, breakfast and admissions. A land-only package is $800. The tour is offered by Liverpool Productions, 397 Edgewood Avenue, New Haven, Conn. 06511 (203-865-8131).

GRAPHIC: At the Rock Circus: re-created Beatles in the Cavern Club; graph compares cost of men's and women's haircuts in various world cities (Source: Runzheimer International); map of France showing new ctiies served by UTA French Airlines

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (52%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); BELARUS (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); UKRAINE (78%); ESTONIA (78%); LATVIA (70%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & KENT USA LLC (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); TRAINS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (74%); HOTEL CHAINS (69%); AIR FARES (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (50%); 



122 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 5; Page 14, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2489 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's Atlantic Playground

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE; JAMES BROOKE is the Rio de Janeiro bureau chief of The New York Times.

 BODY:
DWARFED by the transoceanic behemoths of Air France and Varig, a small blue-and-white propeller plane scoots every day past Recife's imposing international air terminal. Once airborne, the plane leaves behind Brazil's northeastern bulge and heads out to sea, in the direction of Africa.
Built with an unpressurized cabin, the plucky 12-seater bounces through squalls and turbulence, always keeping within sight of gray waves and whitecaps several hundred feet below.
On a recent afternoon, after two hours of droning into the empty South Atlantic, my wife and I began to exchange glances tinged with doubt.
About then, we spied our destination - Brazil's Atlantic islands, the miniature archipelago of Fernando de Noronha. 
Rising from the ocean floor 13,000 feet below, an underwater mountain emerged from the turquoise sea, culminating in a 1,060-foot-high peak of rugged gray basalt. Thick green vegetation cloaked the shoulders. Rimming the main island were fingernail beaches of white coral sand studded with black volcanic rock.
In 1503, Amerigo Vespucci became the first European to set eyes on this 10-square-mile island chain. After four centuries of human habitation, Fernando de Noronha is now entering its most accessible and most welcoming era.
Last year, after almost half a century of control, Brazil's military returned the archipelago to civilian rule. Beating back a proposal to build casinos on the island, conservationists persuaded the government to declare 70 percent of this remote archipelago a national marine park.
Today, Fernando de Noronha, the principal island of the 21-island archipelago, is open to the public. With basic lodgings a la 1950's Caribbean, the island offers a wide variety of attractions for its 8.5 square miles.
For scuba divers - or simple snorkelers - the island's clear blue waters are a life-size aquarium of tropical marine fauna. Above water, visitors can observe the somersaults and leaps of whitebelly spinner dolphins. The island's Dolphin Bay is the only place outside of Kealakekua Bay, Hawaii, where spinners are known to live year round.
And for a visitor disillusioned with Brazil's polluted urban beaches, Fernando de Noronha is a step back in time. Beaches are spotless and the water is clear and warm - 79 degrees.
Bird watchers, walking through snake-free underbrush, discover a wealth of equatorial bird life - including two varieties that are endemic to the island.
Amateur historians and vacation philosophers can ponder works wrought by man down through the centuries: the ramparts of a fortress started in the 17th century, when the Netherlands were a world power; the remains of a brutal 19th-century penal colony, Brazil's equivalent of Devils Island; the abandoned Air France building that recalls transoceanic flights here by the air pioneers Gago Coutinho and Jean Mermoz, and wind-battered Quonset huts erected during World War II by American soldiers assigned to guard South Atlantic sea lanes from this lonely outpost.
The American presence, which lasted until the early 1960's, most marked the island, which has only 200 houses.
Inspired by Washington's vision of the island as a granite aircraft carrier, American engineers built the milelong airstrip now used for tourist flights. Today, most of the 1,400 inhabitants receive power from a diesel station installed by Americans and drinking water from a cement rainwater catch basin built by Americans. The summit of the island's landmark, the Pico, is reached by a series of cast-iron ladders riveted to the rock by Americans.
Virtually all visitors stay at the Hotel Esmeralda, the former American base. Today, flop-eared goats and stray horses munch grass by a pay telephone. But by studying the rusted American fire hydrants, the double row of Quonset huts and the faded white curbstones, one can easily conjure up the image of mid-20th century American military culture projected to this end of the earth.
Today, the banging screen door of the old mess hall opens into the Esmeralda's reception area, a well-used bar with broken chairs, and the island's only restaurant. At this self-service establishment, etiquette is boarding house and cuisine remains mess hall - large, bland portions. The bar is well stocked with sodas, beer and the basic hard drinks.
Elena Gavazzi Ribeiro, the jolly Brazilian manager, welcomes visitors with a reminder to set watches one hour ahead of ''the continent.'' Our advice: drink bottled water; bring your own soap and beach towels, and avoid December through March, when Brazilians take their summer vacations.
Visitors no longer lodge in the Quonset huts, called ''igloos'' by the locals. Replacing only the screen windows, the islanders will probably nurse these temporary accommodations into the 21st century. If you enter Aguas Claras, the scuba diving company, you will see why: a prevailing southeast breeze flows through, keeping the inside cool and bug free.
Instead, visitors are lodged in square box rooms. Each is furnished with at least two single beds and single visitors should be prepared to share rooms with guests of the same sex. The bathrooms are cold-water. Cleanliness is such that many visitors will feel more comfortable taking a shower wearing their beach sandals.
Built four years ago, the rooms have no cross-ventilation, no screens for the windows and total dependence on air-conditioning. Unfortunately, the three-unit generating station left by the Americans has dwindled to one generator. To conserve power, air-conditioning runs only from 10 P.M. to 7 A.M. The number of tourists is kept to 100 at any one time and, consequently, the only reliable way to travel to Fernando de Noronha is through a package tour. This includes room and board at the Esmeralda and daily group outings.
The archipelago receives sun 200 days a year, and the rainy season is March through May. The rain leaves most dirt roads impassable, but it also paints the island bright green. During the dry season, from September through Feburary, the island takes on a dusty brown color. Varying little throughout the year, the daytime temperature stays near 78 degrees. The lowest it gets is 64.
We found worthwhile both a bus tour and a boat tour, which went up the lush, leeward side. But this is 3.5 degrees south of the Equator. For Brazilians in string bikinis and minimal male attire, this means slowly turning a pleasant shade of golden brown. For us this meant turning lobster red overnight and then seeking shirts and shade.
It is more fun to explore the beaches and the historical sites at your own pace - on foot or in an old jeep bouncing down the stone roads laid decades ago by prison work gangs.
At the hotel, Bill Guarda can line up a driver and a battered military jeep for about $35 a day. Mr. Guarda rents fins, snorkel and mask for about $3 a day.
A VISIT to Sancho Bay explains why Brazilians fought to have Fernando de Noronha declared a national marine park.
Slipping off a tour boat into the warm waters of the South-Equatorial Current, we donned our rented masks and entered the underwater world. A school of 50 silver fish flashed around a head of fire coral. Nearby hovered a group of Stegastes rocasensis, small yellow fish tinged with purple.
Up and down the volcanic coast, scuba divers can go deeper, exploring gardens of 10 coral species. Underwater fishing has been banned since 1984 and a colorful variety of tropical fish proliferate: queen angel fish, butterfly fish, honeycomb cow fish, yellow goat fish and parrot fish.
Coming up for air at Sancho Bay, we contemplated a primeval scene. Unmarked by a single footprint, a pristine beach gave way to a soaring, concave cliff. Cloaked at lower levels in jitirana creepers, the cliff was a nesting place for several bird species, including the white-tailed tropic bird, noted for long elegant tail feathers. Frigate and white terns sailed silently against a backdrop of the 250-foot-high rock face.
One bird species, Vireo gracilirostris, a small brown brush bird, is only found on Fernando de Noronha. Also endemic to the island is a subspecies, Elaenia spectabilis ridleyania, a melodious, gray-breasted wood-nesting bird named after H. N. Ridley, a British naturalist who visited in 1887.
Because of the steep cliff, Sancho Bay is usually visited by boat. Afterward, one can go a beach north, past the Two Brothers rocks, to Porcos Bay, which offers tidal pools for bathing and more reefs for snorkeling. Or, if it is still early in the day, it is worth moving south to Dolphins Bay.
According to a video, ''Bay of the Dolphins,'' which is shown at the Aguas Claras divers' hut, dolphins have been spotted at this bay since 1700. The bay is a mating, breeding and nurturing area and park authorities ban swimming and boating within an area demarcated by buoys. The untamed dolphins revel in aerial acrobatics. ''They are capable of carrying out several different aerial movements, including spins, somersaults, spectacular leaps and repeated beating of the water with their tail fins,'' Clovis Barreira e Castro wrote in ''Archipelago de Fernando de Noronha,'' an illustrated Portuguese-English book: ''The biologist Liliane Lodi recorded series of up to five somersaults, 14 leaps with body twists, and 10 consecutive leaps.''
Visible in the bay about 125 days out of the year, the community of 150 dolphins is most likely to be sighted from dawn to 3 P.M. For land viewing, arrange the night before to leave the hotel at dawn with a driver and a jeep. It takes about an hour to drive and walk to the viewing spot, at the top of the bay's 350-foot-high cliff. We missed the dolphins. But the island offers other aquatic attractions. Wearing sneakers, you can walk at low tide from Porcos Bay past American's Beach to Boldro Beach, which is below the hotel. Keep an eye out for the boobies and frigate birds that patrol the breaking surf, searching for the flash of a tasty sardine.
The dirt path to the hotel passes the island's one nightspot, the Mirante (Lookout) Bar, where residents dance to lambada, a music popular in northeastern Brazil.
For spectacular sunsets, try the windblown western side of the island, which faces Africa. Reachable by road is Sueste Beach, a calm bay about a two-mile walk from the hotel where Dutch troops landed in the 1600's.
During the day, we visited Leao Beach, a half-hour walk from Sueste down a path bordered by shoulder-high angelica trees that emit a scent like jasmine.
Built up with sand dunes, Leao Beach faces two small rocky islands known as nesting places for the rare blue-faced booby. On the southern end of the beach, the sea has dug channels in the reefs. When waves rush through, seawater sprays 30 feet in the air in a natural fountain.
From January to May, Leao Beach is the scene of a ritual thousands of years old. Swimming from Ascension Island, 900 miles to the west, green turtles return every year to the beach, where they drag themselves up on the sand to nest. To save the turtles from extinction, conservationists now protect the nests, which often contain hundreds of eggs.
On the way back from Leao, our driver stopped for a refresher at a rundown house near a mangrove swamp. On cue, a woman hacked off the top of a fresh coconut and offered us the fresh milk. Her daughter offered squares of cocada, a sweet coconut candy. Each cost the equivalent of 25 American cents.
Indeed, outside of the Esmeralda and its bland fare, the only other food we found for sale was at Dona Zeta's house, where cones can be had of white ice cream made from native graviola fruit. Virtually all food consumed on the island is imported.
Occasionally, islanders slaughter a cow. Many are descended from a Pakistani herd introduced in the early 1950's, when the island briefly served as a veterinarian quarantine for Brazil. In a less successful interference with the local ecology, a farmer introduced Teju lizards here in the 1960's. Instead of killing rats, as intended, the lizards feasted on bird and turtle eggs. Today, many birds nest only on the outer islands.
Among the physical marks of man, the most prominent is Remedios Fort, the largest of 17 abandoned fortifications.
In the 1600's and early 1700's the Dutch and the French repeatedly seized the island and used it as a springboard for invasions of the Portuguese-controlled mainland. After expelling the last foreign occupiers, the French, in 1736, Portuguese colonial authorities completed the fort's construction.
Today, rusted cannon barrels stand watch over trans-Atlantic yachts anchored below in Santo Antonio harbor.
Behind the fort is Remedios, once a penal colony, now a hamlet dominated by a newly restored 18th-century Baroque church.
From the mid-1700's until 1948, criminals and political prisoners were sent here.
In her book, ''Fernando de Noronha: Legends and Picturesque Facts,'' Maria Jose Borges Lins e Silva, a Recife historian, re-creates the sadistic regime of floggings, stone beds, solitary cells and ultimate punishment - abandonment on Rat Island.
In February 1832 Charles Darwin sailed around the island and noted in his diaries that it was ''covered with vegetation.'' Twenty years later, a visitor noted that the only trees of any size were in the prison governor's walled garden. All the others had been cut down to prevent prisoners from building escape rafts.
Women were banned by colonial edict until 1817. The ban was lifted after inspectors repeatedly complained to the Portuguese crown of widespread homosexuality. In the 20th century, prison conditions improved slightly after a crusading Brazilian journalist visited here and penned a pamphlet in 1938 entitled ''Fernando de Noronha: Island of Pain and Suffering.''
Today, the ghosts of prisoners probably smile at the T-shirts now sported by Brazil's new, ecology-minded generation: ''Fernando de Noronha: Preserve it or leave it.''
 
THE ARCHIPELAGO
 
Getting There
Nordeste Airlines flies daily to Fernando de Noronha, leaving Recife, Brazil, at 12:30 P.M. and returning around 3:30. Once a week, on Sunday, Nordeste makes two flights. The round trip is about $140.
No camping is allowed on the island. Park police will allow visitors out of the air terminal only if they have a confirmed reservation.
 
Packages
Brazilian Scuba and Land Tours (5254 Merrick Road, Suite 5, Massapequa, N.Y. 11758; telephone 800-722-0205) offers a round-trip economy flight from Miami with three nights in Recife, six nights and board at the Hotel Esmeralda, five days of tank diving, a tour of the island and a tour of the Bay of Dolphins for $1,599; nondivers $1,399.
Dona Zeta's house has four rooms. The rate is $15 a night, including breakfast, lunch and dinner. Telephone 549-1242.
Dona Pituca's house (next to the church) has four rooms at $15 a night, including meals. Telephone 549-1201. - J. B.

GRAPHIC: The restored Our Lady of Remedios church, an 18th-century Baroque structure; a tour boat preparing to take visitors around the archipelago for scuba-diving and sightseeing; horses freely roam the grounds of the Esmeralda, Fernando de Noronha's only hotel; San Miguel Palace houses the municipal offices (Elizabeth Brooke)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GOLL3 (BOVESPA) (58%); GOL (NYSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (58%); AF (AMS) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (70%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: RECIFE, BRAZIL (72%); 

COMPANY: GOL LINHAS AEREAS INTELIGENTES SA (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL; FERNANDO DE NORONHA (BRAZIL)

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL AIRLINES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); BEACHES (89%); WATER SPORTS (89%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (86%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); HISTORY (73%); BIRDS (69%); SCUBA DIVING (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); ANIMALS (67%); BIRDING (60%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES



123 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 61, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4671 words

HEADLINE: BLACK UNIVERSITIES: IN DEMAND AND IN TROUBLE

BYLINE: By Eric Alterman; Eric Alterman, a senior fellow of the World Policy Institute, is writing a book on Washington pundits for Farrar, Straus & Giroux.

 BODY:
GARFIELD SWABY LEANS BACK IN A BARE METAL CHAIR BEHIND his beat-up desk, next to a file cabinet that neither opens nor shuts properly. A large, barrel-chested young black man with closely cropped hair, Swaby is sitting in a tiny office on campus that is reserved for the president of the student association, underneath a campaign photo of himself and posters of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Jesse Jackson. He is musing on his decision four years ago to turn down Yale and attend Howard University, one of the nation's largest black colleges. ''Choosing Howard,'' he says, ''was the best decision I could have made. Now I can chill on a corner with the brothers, or walk into a business meeting and know how to act. At Howard, you learn how to do both.''
Outside, amid the neo-classical towers and imposing brick buildings that distinguish the Howard skyline from the modest houses of the black neighborhood surrounding it, some 12,000 students are pursuing the 122-year-old dream a Howard education represents. They are in good company: A healthy percentage of America's black elite have been educated on this campus in Washington, among them Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, Atlanta Mayor Andrew Young and Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist Toni Morrison. 
Like many of these graduates, Swaby comes from a predominantly black neighborhood, and when he returns home to Hartford he is disturbed by what he sees - ''kids on street corners doing coke and selling dope.''
''A lot of young people don't have any positive role models in the black community,'' says Swaby, who is currently finishing up his last semester at Howard and hopes to teach in the Washington public schools after he graduates in January. ''That's what Howard has given me - a sense of knowing myself and my own worth.''
SWABY'S COMMITMENT TO HIS COL-lege is emblematic of the quiet renaissance that has been taking place recently at America's top black universities. More and more talented black teen-agers, whether from privileged or disadvantaged backgrounds, integrated or inner-city schools, are turning their backs on Harvard and Radcliffe, Vassar and Dartmouth, Princeton and Smith, and flocking to schools like Howard, and Spelman College and Morehouse College in Atlanta. Of the 106 historically black colleges across the country, these three are part of an elite dozen or so that have been beating out their wealthier, Ivy League counterparts in the race to capture the best and the brightest black students.
Escalating application figures at the top black schools tell the story. In 1979, Spelman received fewer than 1,000 requests for a place in its freshman class; this year, that number nearly quadrupled. With seven applicants vying for each spot, Spelman has become nearly as popular a college choice as Dartmouth.
But while students are evincing greater interest in attending these institutions, the schools themselves are struggling with a series of complex - and often contradictory - pressures as they try to meet the demand. Financially, all are strapped for resources; few appear to be truly solvent for the long run. And even those for whom survival is not in question must wrestle with the twin tasks of improving their own academic standards and national prestige while addressing their larger responsibilities to black education and to the nation's black community.
SINCE LAWS MANDATING NONDISCRIMINA-tion and affirmative action in education were passed more than two decades ago, some Americans have come to view the system of black colleges and universities - once the only training ground for black doctors, lawyers, dentists and clergy - as a bit anachronistic, if not downright retrogressive. Why, after all, should an incoming freshman choose a segregated situation at a school with meager resources and overworked, underpaid faculty? Why, particularly when the top, traditionally white, universities have been recruiting black talent with financial aid and the promise of admittance into America's white elite?
The advantage of rubbing shoulders at Ivy League schools with the children of America's corporate and political elite is admittedly strong. Yet for many black teen-agers, there is a more important consideration: the need to immerse themselves in black culture, with black mentors and other black students. This is particularly true for middle-class blacks who come from predominantly white high schools - a group that accounts for roughly half of the current freshman class at Spelman College, for example. As Alonza Robertson, an eloquent but soft-spoken Howard senior from Tampa, explains: ''My white friends from high school tried to talk me out of going to Howard. But I'd never had a black man teach me before, and when it happened, it made me feel kind of proud.''
''It had always been put in my mind that valedictorians were white,'' says Devray Kirkland, a Howard junior from Massillon, Ohio. ''But at college, I wanted to hang around with black valedictorians, black 4.0's.''
Indeed, there is little doubt that black colleges offer much more in the way of confidence-building and do a better job of nurturing their students through the rigors of college than do most traditionally white schools. At Spelman, for example, if a student's work in Dr. Gloria Wade-Gayles's classes seems to be falling off, the student is far less likely to get a failing grade than an invitation to come talk with her professor about what is wrong. ''If a family member has lost a job or something, I give her space,'' says Wade-Gayles, an associate professor of English and women's studies. ''Teaching at Spelman is not a bottom-line kind of thing.''
Dr. Freddye L. Hill, vice president and dean of student affairs at Spelman and formerly dean of Haverford College, finds that this extra support makes a big difference in(Continued on Page 80) students' states of mind. ''The black students I knew at Haverford may have done well, but I never got the feeling they were happy,'' she says. ''At Spelman, they can sing spirituals in their own voices without feeling like outsiders. Students here feel a sense of oneness with the institution.''
That student-university bond translates into the kind of enthusiasm that borders on devotion, and would be the envy of any college president. Sitting in Spelman's cheerfully decorated dining room, surrounded by portraits of successful black women, a group of graduating seniors all offer the same testimonial to their college. ''What Spelman does is an amazing thing,'' says Jacqueline Scott from Highland Park, Ill. ''It allows black women to define ourselves apart from external pressures.''
Fear of having to contend with the pressures of integration at white colleges prompts many black youths, especially those who come from black high schools, to steer clear of white universities. And judging from the stories heard, such fears are not unfounded. The prevailing metaphor black students use to describe their experience at white universities is that of being in a fishbowl. ''There is a question always following you around: Are you good enough?'' explains Tony James, a black graduate of Stanford University. ''People expect you to prove you deserve to be there because of your color.'' Other students recall being told by well-meaning peers that they were ''acceptable blacks'' or ''nothing like our maids.''
There are less subtle, uglier resurgences of campus racism. In the past three years, more than 250 colleges have reported racial incidents, some of them violent. At the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, up to 3,000 white students chased 20 black students and beat one nearly to death following a 1986 World Series game. Last year, arsonists burned down what was to be a fraternity house for blacks at the University of Mississippi. And at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, white members of the Zeta Beta Tau fraternity wore Afro wigs and blackface and held a mock slave auction.
Black enrollment in all colleges and universities has been on the decline since 1976, but the number of students enrolling in black colleges has held relatively steady. These colleges also graduate a much higher percentage of black students than do predominantly white schools. Today, black colleges enroll only 17 percent of America's black college students, but provide more than 32 percent of the nation's black graduates.
Statistics like these lead to a nagging, underlying question: Is the quality of education at America's best black schools as high as at its top white universities? Students and faculty at black schools chafe at the question. The perception that these schools are somehow inferior to their white counterparts is one they've been battling for years. They admit that their physical facilities are often poorer, and grants for extras such as study abroad are much harder to come by. Yet they are also quick to point out that their students are accepted at the most selective graduate programs in the country.
Most administrators at black schools seem to agree with Dr. Donald M. Stewart, a former Spelman president and current president of the College Board, a nonprofit association that sponsors, among other things, the Scholastic Aptitude Test. He believes that faculty qualifications and course requirements at the leading black colleges are every bit as demanding as those of the top white ones. The real difference, says Stewart, is that ''schools like Morehouse and Spelman, which do enroll many of the best-qualified black students, are also willing to take bigger risks on students who have suffered educational inequities in the past.''
PERHAPS THE HOT-test black school today is Spelman, a women's college of 1,700 founded in 1881 by two white women, abolitionists, at Atlanta's Friendship Baptist Church. Dr. Johnnetta B. Cole is one of the reasons why. Two years ago, Cole became the first black woman to serve as president of the school.
Having been raised in Jacksonville, Fla., in the 1940's and 50's by middle-class parents, Cole considers herself a veteran of the ''Jim-Crow South.'' She was educated first at Fisk University in Nashville and later at Oberlin College in Ohio, then went on to become a noted anthropologist and to teach at Hunter College in New York before coming to Spelman.
Her hair graying around the edges, Cole emits a warmth that is at once maternal and sisterly. Dressed in a stylish blue suit and a bright scarf, she sits in an office that bespeaks a history of exotic anthropological expeditions: a South African bridal sash hangs on one wall, a Bundu mask on another. Gazing out the window at the campus, an oasis of manicured lawns and 19th-century New England architecture surrounded by neighborhood housing projects and the newly merged Clark Atlanta University, Cole recalls another dewy morning last fall. Just before dawn, the new president looked out and saw hundreds of Spelman women walking in a procession, holding candles and singing songs to welcome her.
''What they're really responding to is not me; they are seeing themselves in us,'' she insists, her speech a unique mixture of Oxford English and black vernacular. ''And there is something powerful about a place where students see themselves reflected in positions of leadership.''
In the past couple of years, Cole has fostered a special relationship with her students. Many mornings, she takes a long walk around the campus, and her door is generally open to any student who wants to see her. At times, she admits, her office may appear to be under siege, as students line the halls, waiting for hours for compassion, commiseration and inspiration.
Cole shares the credit for bringing Spelman into the limelight with her friends ''Dr. Bill'' Cosby and his wife, ''Sister Camille,'' who donated $20 million to the college last November. Their gift, which was announced at Cole's inauguration and will go primarily toward a new academic center, was five times larger than any Spelman had ever received. The comedian, who sent one of his daughters to Spelman, had already given the school invaluable publicity by filming campus scenes of the popular television show ''A Different World'' there.
Cosby, a graduate of Temple University, says he made the gift to Spelman because he wanted ''Dr. Cole to understand the love that Camille and I have for this college and for the women who, in spite of the odds against them, come here to challenge themselves.''
The Cosbys' contribution summarily dwarfed all others made to any black school, and was specifically intended to inspire other donors to open their wallets. Historically, the rate of alumni participation in fund-raising for black schools has been only half that of white schools, due primarily to the relatively limited financial resources available within the black community. The United Negro College Fund estimates that as of 1987 the average endowment of its member institutions was a paltry $6,710 per student, compared to the average endowment at primarily white institutions of $19,918 per student. In a recent New York Times article, it was pointed out that ''Cornell's endowment stands at $717 million, which is only $38,652 per student.''
Financial hardship takes its toll in a multitude of ways, touching virtually every aspect of black college life. Howard students protest that they have rodents in their dormitories at night and dirty water in the morning. (A tour of one dorm, however, revealed only typical student squalor.) Security in some of the nation's rougher neighborhoods is also a major problem. At one Howard dorm in downtown Washington, a reporter spied crack dealers working a corner just one block away.
Academic sacrifices have had to be made as well. At Spelman, budding scientists must sometimes make do with laboratory equipment that is nearly as old as they are, according to Cole. Faculty members, meanwhile, at the top black institutions are paid considerably less than their colleagues at the best white universities and are expected to teach far greater loads in often-cramped quarters.
Small wonder that black colleges are having trouble holding on to their faculty, about two-thirds of which is black. ''We are losing our black professors - and they are themselves a rare and endangered species,'' warns Cole. These schools are also in danger of losing the promising students who prefer them to their white competitors. According to the United Negro College Fund, about 90 percent of those enrolled at its member colleges require financial aid. Yet the scholarship money, Cole says, is ''barely a vague imitation'' of what schools like Stanford or Brown can offer.
The financial predicament of the leading black colleges is bad enough, but that of most other black schools is far worse. Founded by various religious denominations in the South during Reconstruction, many of these smaller colleges are now on the brink of extinction.
The perception of Spelman as an elitist school for well-to-do black women concerns Cole, who feels that the top black schools are not doing enough to stem the tides of powerlessness and poverty in the wider black community. ''Spelman has had a long tradition of service, but we need to do more,'' Cole admits. ''How can we call ourselves leaders if we turn away from the very reality that a third of black America lives in poverty? We need to build more sturdy black bridges into our communities.''
ACROSS THE STREET from Spelman lies Morehouse, a men's college founded in 1867 by a former slave and a Baptist minister to teach other former slaves to read and write and to prepare them for the ministry. The school struggled through its early years, moving and renaming itself many times, until the famous black educator John Hope took over as its president in 1906. Under his leadership, Morehouse began to educate not merely future preachers and missionaries but black professionals of all types.
On the spot where Confederate soldiers once staged their most stubborn resistance, during the siege of Atlanta, 2,600 Morehouse men now traverse a 55-acre campus that adjoins Clark Atlanta University. Like Spelman, Morehouse believes in giving its students a healthy dose of nurturing. They are encouraged to conduct themselves like the leaders they hope to become. It is not uncommon, for example, to see students wearing suits and ties to class. They seem to take up these symbols of their future aspirations quite comfortably and without much rebellion. There is a sense at Morehouse that students, faculty and administration alike are all engaged in the same struggle for black pride and achievement. As John Wesley Days Jr., a recent graduate, puts it: ''There is an air of expectancy about this place. We understand that the psychological uplift of our people is rooted in our education.''
A massive, imposing statue of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. stands at the entrance to the chapel on campus, in tribute to Morehouse's most famous alumnus. It was here, in his student days, that the civil rights leader first read Thoreau's thoughts on civil disobedience, and here, after his assassination, that a funeral service was held for the public.
Looming perhaps even larger than King's spirit is that of the man he called ''my spiritual and intellectual father,'' Dr. Benjamin Elijah Mays, president of the school from 1940 to 1967. The son of a sharecropper, Mays instilled in his students, in the words of Morehouse's current president, Dr. Leroy Keith, ''the belief that they could accomplish any task set before them.''
Spike Lee, the celebrated black film maker, is one Morehouse man who took Mays's words to heart. Although his 1988 movie ''School Daze'' is in large measure a lampooning of a Morehouse-type campus, he nevertheless credits his alma mater with giving him the inspiration and the belief in himself to pursue his art. ''Without the strong foundation I received at Morehouse,'' says Lee, who graduated in 1979, ''I would never have gotten through film school.''
Despite this strong leadership ethic, Morehouse - like other black colleges - must contend with some of the same problems that white colleges face. Last month, for instance, an 18-year-old sophomore died in a fraternity hazing incident. The youth, who in childhood had a heart ailment, suffered cardiac arrest after he was purportedly shoved around by members of the college's chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha, the nation's oldest fraternity for blacks. The administration, whose policies regulating pledging activities and prohibiting hazing had been ignored, acted swiftly: two students were immediately expelled and eight suspended for a year; the fraternity was barred indefinitely from campus.
Outside the walls of Morehouse and Spelman, the need for black American leadership is even more urgent, as the education of black youth drifts into a state of crisis. Roughly one-third of all black teen-agers never graduate from high school. And of those who do, far too few make it through college. (Only 31 percent of the black students who entered college in 1980 had managed to graduate by 1986.) Studies paint an even bleaker picture of the black male in particular, who seems to be slowly disappearing from higher education. Against a rise in virtually all other ethnic groups, the number of black male high school graduates in college between 1976 and 1986 fell by more than 7 percent, and between 1977 and 1987, the number of doctoral degrees they earned declined by more than 50 percent. A recent study of high school graduates in Atlanta shows that black men ''were the group least likely to apply to college, the least likely to be accepted and the least likely, if accepted, to enroll.''
For the black community, the implications of these trends are devastating. With fewer role models who hold college degrees, children are less likely to overcome the social and economic barriers that poverty and ghetto life erect on the path to higher education. Leroy Keith insists that the problem of black education is not just a black problem but ''an American one,'' and he blames a decade of ''racism, masquerading as conservatism.'' Johnnetta Cole faults the Federal Government for allowing black life in the inner cities to deteriorate to such a degree. ''Before I charge our people, I charge our Government,'' she says. ''It is just plain absurd to think that we can pull ourselves up by some imaginary bootstrap.''
Nevertheless, students at the leading black schools are trying. Spelman students recently founded the ''African Sisterhood,'' designed in part to foster a relationship between themselves and youngsters living in Atlanta's housing projects. A similar program at Howard also matches ghetto children with positive role models from the university. And at Morehouse, a group of students is starting to organize an after-hours school in the John Hope projects, which is designed, according to Eddie Glaude Jr., a recent Morehouse graduate, ''to let the little brothers know that learning can be cool.''
NAMED IN HONOR OF OLI-ver Otis Howard, a white officer in the Union Army who developed an interest in the welfare of former slaves, Howard University was founded in 1867 and staffed by members of the First Congregational Society of Washington. While the founders intended to establish a black theological seminary, the school's charter, signed and approved by President Andrew Johnson, called for the creation of ''a university for the education of youth in the liberal arts and sciences.''
Today, with 18 separate schools and colleges, nine research institutes and a 500-bed teaching hospital, spread out over five campuses, Howard is unarguably the largest and most prestigious black research university in America - the only one to aspire to the order of a Yale or Johns Hopkins. In recent years, however, Howard's reputation as the historic ''capstone'' of black education worldwide has been challenged, as other black schools claim more and more of the top black students. Last year, for instance, Morehouse and Spelman together attracted 21 winners of National Achievement Scholarships for black students, while Howard, with twice as many students, enrolled only 17. In the opinion of Mary Francis Berry, a Howard alumna who is now a professor of history at the University of Pennsylvania, ''the Howard faculty is not inspired. And important work there is not attended to.''
Howard's administration has recently come under fire in Congress for its management of the nearly $180 million it received last year in Federal funds, which cover most of its academic budget and about 40 percent of its operating expenses. Citing ''management deficiencies,'' a House committee report has called for a full audit of Howard's financial situation.
Moreover, because of its location in the nation's capital, Howard's difficulties are often played out in the national media, most recently against the background of partisan politics. The nomination to the university board of Lee Atwater, chairman of the Republican National Committee, became the catalyst for a dramatic demonstration last March that catapulted Howard into the nightly news. Atwater had offended many Howard students when, as the 1988 Presidential campaign manager for George Bush, he helped create the ''Willie Horton issue.''
''Atwater's use of the symbol of an African-American man raping a white woman,'' according to the editors of Howard's campus newspaper, ''performed a sinister function as the most racist strategy in a national Presidential campaign in the 20th century.''
Angry students who had no desire to see Atwater play a role at their university occupied the administration building and shut it down for three days. They also presented a series of demands, which charged that administrators were dealing ineffectively with problems including a cumbersome financial aid process, inadequate campus security, overburdened faculty course loads and dilapidated dormitories. There were tense confrontations with Washington police, and a high-profile intervention by Jesse Jackson. The demonstration ended peacefully after Atwater resigned and administrators agreed to improve conditions on campus.
James E. Cheek, who announced he would retire as president of Howard, as planned, shortly after the incident, continues to insist that the media played up the demonstrations far beyond their real significance. Though most observers estimated the number of protestors to be 3,000, Cheek insists that ''there were 500 tops . . . and they were exploited by political opportunists . . . like Jesse Jackson.''
Cheek, a lifelong Republican and an outspoken supporter of both Ronald Reagan and George Bush, had himself been criticized by students. Even his defenders admit that in the final years of his two decades at Howard's helm, the black administrator had grown increasingly remote from the black students and their concerns.
Ironically perhaps, the protest seemed to give the Howard community a greater esprit de corps. Many faculty members and alumni supported the students' efforts and viewed the passing of Cheek's baton as an opportunity to revitalize the school. Judging by this year's application figures, which matched last year's record, Howard remains an attractive option to large numbers of America's most talented black youth.
In the wake of the Howard demonstrations, another major controversy continues to rock the black educational community. The issue, briefly stated, is: What should black colleges teach?
Like most black schools, Howard attempts to strike a balance between two separate educational priorities: how to succeed in a predominantly white American society, while building pride in a special black heritage. Business students, for instance, are taught how to deal with racism in the workplace and how to speak the language of white corporate America. At the same time, all Howard students are required to take at least one course in African-American culture.
Still, the curriculum of most black schools remains weighted heavily toward traditional Western culture, which means ''students at Howard learn that their own history and culture is optional, while the Europeans' is required,'' explains Ronald W. Walters, a professor of political science. Many professors and students feel the time has come for a massive infusion of African-American classes.
This kind of thinking is what led to a second set of Howard student demands: That the university establish a graduate program in African-American studies and that more of an Afrocentric thrust be given to all courses. In the end, Howard's administration agreed to study the feasibility of the students' demands. Clearly, though, the issue of an African-American versus Eurocentric education is far from being resolved, and is likely to remain a contentious one in the coming decade.
THE BALANCING ACT facing Howard's next president (to be named in the coming year) and all the top black colleges is a daunting one, to say the least. These schools must somehow divide their attention and meager resources among several priorities. They must continue to provide a top-flight education for some of the nation's best students, while also reaching out to save future applicants from the poverty, drugs and crime that plague much of the black community.
Does America still need its black colleges? Yes, says Michael R. Winston, a third-generation Howard graduate and and a vice president for academic affairs there, who sees their worth in the character of the students they produce. ''We don't have minority students here,'' Winston insists. ''We have nothing but mainstream students who are recapturing what was lost of their intellectual and cultural heritage.''
John Wesley Days, a product of that legacy, states the case for black colleges another way. ''It's far more important to know yourself,'' says Days, remembering his Morehouse days, ''than to own a Harvard sweatshirt.''

GRAPHIC: Graduation and Morehouse College.(pg.60)(Ann States); Graduation at Howard University.(pg. 62)( Joanna Pinneo); Johnetta Cole at Spelman College.(pg. 63)(Ann States)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BLACKS (IN US); FINANCES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); WRITERS (65%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (65%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); 

PERSON: ALTERMAN, ERIC JESSE JACKSON (57%); 



124 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 12, Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: WHITE HOUSE SPEECHWRITER

 BODY:
Let's face it, Peggy Noonan is a genius (along with Ronald Reagan's public relations magicians).
When she joined the Reagan team in 1984, Reaganomics was producing Federal budget deficits of over $200 billion a year and saddling future generations with a mountain of debt. Ms. Noonan and other White House speechwriters somehow portrayed Reagan as the candidate of economic growth and sound fiscal management. 
By the time Ms. Noonan was serving her final year at the White House, the Administration had become mired in scandal - from Iran-contra to Edwin Meese to the bizarre tales of Nancy Reagan's astrology. Yet again, through a wave of the magic pen, she and her colleagues portrayed the outgoing President as a gracious figure of historic proportions, even as a man of integrity.
Either the black art of speechwriting has become too powerful to resist, or the American public has grown too passive to bother.
 
DAVID CALLAHAN
 Princeton, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (88%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); NOONAN, PEGGY RONALD REAGAN (92%); 



125 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 15, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2531 words

HEADLINE: THE PARADOX OF SLAVERY

BYLINE: By C. VANN WOODWARD; C. Vann Woodward's most recent book is ''The Future of the Past.''

 BODY:

WITHOUT CONSENT OR CONTRACT
The Rise and Fall of American Slavery.
By Robert William Fogel.
1539 pp. New York:
W. W. Norton & Company. $22.50.
Robert William Fogel's ''Without Consent or Contract'' is a sequel to, an extension of and a defense of ''Time on the Cross,'' the 1974 book about slavery on which he collaborated with Stanley L. Engerman. The earlier book provoked more interest, outrage and indignation than any scholarly work on American history since Charles A. Beard's ''Economic Interpretation of the Constitution'' in 1913. Feelings were stirred over both books for much the same reason - those of the public for an apparent assault on national pieties and convictions, those of historians not only for that but also for what they saw as violations of scholarly rules and standards. 
Stressing the statistics and methods of quantification, ''Time on the Cross'' sought to expose and correct the errors of traditional historians about slavery. In place of a Simon Legree or a cavalier fop as the typical plantation master, the book presented a shrewd businessman running a well-managed, efficient and highly profitable enterprise with labor policies that anticipated those of modern industry. Instead of pathetic Uncle Toms or cringing, lazy Sambos, his slaves were diligent, hard-working and very efficient workers - in fact 35 percent more efficient than free Northern farm labor. To all appearances they had adopted or internalized the Protestant work ethic of their master and joined him in pursuit of bourgeois aims and values.
Impossible under the cruel and brutal treatment pictured by the abolitionists and credited by traditional historians, the rational business-labor relations postulated in ''Time on the Cross'' could only exist under a benign order. And such was the slave system uncovered by the cliometricians. According to the book, the diligent field hand was rewarded by 90 percent of the income he produced and induced to work harder by promise of rewards, privileges and promotions that made the whip largely unnecessary. The benevolent and cheerful order was blessed by strong, stable family life with Victorian morals. It was rarely broken by the sale of members or degraded by white sexual exploitation. By this account, few free-labor forces of Europe and America were so well housed, clothed and fed as the South's slaves. Their treatment was said to explain in part the rarity of slave resistance or rebellion and a rate of population increase unapproached by any other slave population. The South of the 1850's, the authors contended, enjoyed more per capita wealth than any European country save England.
Critical response to ''Time on the Cross'' was no doubt sharpened by its polemical style and the strident way in which historians were ''corrected,'' instructed about facts they had long known or findings they knew to be false and lectured about neglecting quantifiable data and methods. But critics also discovered and pointed out numerous lapses in scholarship, errors in fact and breaches in the elemental rules of quantification. Two critics of the book found its casual use of evidence ''shocking,'' and a team of five quantifying historians joined in declaring the work to be ''shot through with egregious errors.'' Some scholars joined in the popular resentment of what was felt to be the moral blindness of the authors. One said that they ''averaged out and depersonalized'' the slave experience, and another that their book ''raises a profound moral issue without treating it as such.''
In ''Without Consent or Contract'' Mr. Fogel has the good judgment to moderate the polemical tone of the earlier work as well as its strident lectures to other historians. In returning to the original economic thesis he tones down some of his previous arguments and avoids repetition of the logic and evidence most discredited by critics. He even admits that ''cliometricians may have exaggerated the role of manufacturing and romanticized the economic dynamism of the yeomen.'' On the whole, however, he sticks to the main points of the original theses and even brings forth new evidence to strengthen them.
So we are still presented with the apparent anomaly of a Southern slave economy that was more productive, more efficient, more profitable and wealthier than the free-labor economy of the North, and slave labor that was diligent, hard-working and far more efficient when used in the gang system than free labor in its own habits. While the ''businessman'' planter is now described as a ''plutocrat,'' we are assured that ''the southern plutocrats were considerably richer, on average, than their northern counterparts'' - about twice as rich, in fact - and that they were much more numerous. The regime of the planter plutocrat, moreover, was as benign as that of the planter businessman -as protective and cherishing of slave family integrity, as nurturing of slave health and welfare and as innocent of brutal punishments, of ''breeding'' for the market and of sexual abuse of slave property. Slave trading was for use, not gain, and accounted for less than 1 percent of planter profits. All this while the per capita income of the South was growing at a rate one-third higher than that of the North, a rate exceeded substantially over a long term only by ''a handful of countries.''
For all that, the new book contains striking departures from its predecessor. It undertakes to ''come to grips with what many scholars see as the unwelcome and ominous paradox'' of a system that was ''horribly retrogressive in its social, political, and ideological aspects,'' yet was found to be efficient, prosperous and benign. The missing moral dimension was not satisfactorily supplied in ''Time on the Cross,'' despite its incongruous abolitionist title. ''The ultimate issues of this book,'' we are assured by its author, ''are moral issues.'' (The new book might well have swapped titles with the old.) By confronting these issues resolutely, he believes, we can not only illuminate the past but gain deeper understanding of ''the issues of our own time in a new way.''
More than half the book is devoted to the antislavery movement and the political struggles leading to the Civil War. This is traditional narrative history, in which quantification plays an insignificant part and innovations are few. Mr. Fogel says he has ''endeavored to make it a good story, one that will be edifying and intriguing to a wide range of readers.'' Intriguing it might perhaps be said to be. It was ''mystics,'' we learn, who solved the problem of evil producing good. Transcending reason and trusting what they took as divine inspiration, the ''mystics,'' or abolitionists, ''declared that slavery was not just a sin, but an extraordinary sin, a sin so corrupting'' as to create ''an insurmountable barrier to both personal and national salvation.''
The familiar story of the antislavery movement begins with the British campaign, to which nothing particularly new is added save by one of the few contributions cliometrics makes to this half of the book. Indexes of Parliamentary votes and sugar prices make it more impossible than ever to defend the old theory that British emancipation was caused by the ''defection of capitalists from the ranks of slaveholders.'' That honor is awarded to the landed gentry, which did ''just enough to ensure that the Establishment enjoyed the allegiance of the middle classes and the upper strata of the laboring class.''
The abolitionist crusade in America was sparked by the British example but fueled by the excesses of religious zeal created in Yankeedom by the Second Great Awakening and its frenzies in the early 19th century. Using evangelical fervor and revivalist methods, the abolitionists stressed personal holiness achieved by repentance. Since slavery was ''always, everywhere, and only a sin,'' the remedy was to stop sinning. But at once. As William Lloyd Garrison had it, ''No plan was needed to stop sinning.'' But that did not get slaves very far toward emancipation.
Desperate to advance their cause, antislavery leaders turned to national politics, and, writes Mr. Fogel, that was where moral ambiguities again set in, for the deeper they became involved in politics, ''the more they conceded principle to expediency.'' The story of sectional conflict and politics, from the Missouri Compromise to Lincoln's election, is retold to show the compromises and the sometimes cynical expedients by which Northern nativism against the impoverished millions of immigrants, and even prejudices against blacks, were used to forge a victorious antislavery coalition against the Slave Power Conspiracy and its allies in the North.
The antislavery people supplied an indictment of the South's morality and culture calculated to ''abolitionize the North.'' Their descriptions of ''the horrors of southern culture,'' according to Mr. Fogel, ''were analogous to the revivalist's descriptions of the pain and torture'' of hell itself. Southern masters not only beat their slaves unmercifully but also their wives. They were filled with ''lust for power'' as well as ''lust for pagan pleasures.'' Theirs was ''an erotic society'' that had become ''one great Sodom,'' compared to which a Turkish harem was ''a cradle of virgin purity.'' They and their Northern allies were bent upon ''outright enslavement of all white labor'' and the reduction of the North to a ''conquered province.''
In what Mr. Fogel calls ''the most massive ideological campaign of the age,'' this indictment of the South was carried to the North in a deluge of propaganda by abolitionists until it became ''routinely published in conventional magazines'' and won the support of ''such towering figures of belles lettres as Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and James Russell Lowell.'' In apparent agreement, the author quotes John C. Calhoun as saying that this propaganda would teach the North ''a hatred more deadly than one hostile nation ever entertained towards another.''
The abolitionists' picture of slavery, quite at odds with that of our cliometrician, and the methods they used to destroy slavery, cause ''agonizing dilemmas and paradoxes'' for an author who set out to resolve moral dilemmas. Antislavery heroes prove ''somehow less perfect than one would like heroes to be''; their free labor alternative to slavery was ''still brutal and exploitative,'' and ''the leaders of the struggle to improve the condition of free labor were often aligned with the slaveholders, while the abolitionists were often aligned with the foes of the free labor movement.'' What's worse, ''exaggerations of the severity of slavery divert attention from the novel forms of exploitation that replaced it.'' It is all very confusing, and the author abandons any attempt to present ''an emerging scholarly consensus on the moral paradoxes and dilemmas,'' for no such consensus exists. He can only offer his own solution.
Mr. Fogel finds that the moral crusaders were forced ''to compromise principles, join arms with opportunists, accept immoral propositions . . . and deliberately mislead'' because ''they could vanquish sin only by sinning.'' On the other hand, ''the cause was moral and the intention was virtuous,'' and the deception ''harmed only the slaveholders.'' The Republicans, ''without pandering to northern negrophobia,'' would have lost the election of 1860. So much for the dilemma. In order to ''resolve the paradox,'' Mr. Fogel has to ''cut the tie between economic success (or failure) and moral virtue (or evil).'' While ''slavery was profitable, efficient, and economically viable . . . it was never morally good.'' In place of ''the indictment fashioned by the winners of the antislavery struggle,'' he believes that ''we need a new indictment,'' one more up to date.
He offers his own personal and ''tentative'' moral case against slavery on four counts: it gave one group of people ''unrestrained personal domination'' over another group, a power that was ''by itself profoundly evil and corrupting''; it denied slaves basic economic opportunity; it denied them citizenship and all its rights; and it denied them the rights of ''cultural self-identification'' and ''cultural autonomy.'' While modern opinion would find these counts unexceptionable, Mr. Fogel is frank to admit that much free labor in the world of slavery here and abroad suffered from some of these same deprivations, and that a majority of abolitionists would have opposed extending to slaves and free labor some of the rights that his new bill of indictment denounces slavery for denying.
Still plagued by paradox, the seeker of firm moral ground resorts in the end to ''what-if'' speculation - what if there had been no Civil War? Mr. Fogel believes that war was the only way to end slavery in the United States and is willing to grant, therefore, that this country was the only one of 20-odd slave societies unable to find a peaceful way to emancipation. The South of slavery was growing, not diminishing, in confidence and strength, and he speculates that with independence ''it would have emerged as a major international power,'' perhaps ''one of the world's strongest military powers.'' He speculates also that peaceful secession would have indefinitely postponed emancipation in this country, slowed antislavery movements everywhere, strengthened serfdom in the places it lingered and handicapped the struggle for democratic rights for the lower classes in Europe. These are not conclusions derived from econometrics or science, but they persuade him that the results of the Civil War were worth the lives of 600,000 young men.
This reviewer can only hope that he has been able to do justice to this book, but he has reasons to doubt that this was quite possible. He is informed in a publisher's note at the beginning that this is only ''the primary volume of 'Without Consent or Contract' . . . a nontechnical summary and interpretation of findings by the director of a research group,'' and that there are three companion volumes: ''Evidence and Methods,'' ''Technical Papers: Markets and Production'' and ''Technical Papers: Conditions of Slave Life and the Transition to Freedom.'' Their importance to the volume under review is attested to by innumerable references to them in its notes, references to sources, evidence, authorities, ''the full canon of research on slavery and related topics by the contributors'' and ''extensive discussions of the historiography of the slave system and of the antislavery struggle.'' The publisher's note says that these companion volumes ''are available for those who are concerned.'' It turns out on inquiry, however, that they are only available in manuscript and will not be printed for several months. It is not the practice of responsible journals to review books not published, nor of reviewers to review books in manuscript. If the reviewer appears to have been in error or the author reviewed to have suffered injustice, it would seem that the publisher must share - and, if acting without the author's approval, perhaps shoulder - part of the blame.

GRAPHIC: Drawing depicitng an abolitionist meeting, commenerating the first anniversary of John Brown's death, being disrupted at Tremont Hall in Boston, Dec. 3, 1860. (From Harper's Weekly, Dec. 15, 1860) (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: REVIEW

TITLE: WITHIN CONSENT OR CONTRACT: RISE AND FALL OF AMERICAN SLAVERY

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); ENGLAND (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); SLAVERY (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); HISTORY (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (75%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); ETHICS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); WRITERS (71%); FAMILY (70%); FARM LABOR (67%); 

PERSON: WOODWARD, C VANN; FOGEL, ROBERT WILLIAM



126 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 37, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: ADVANCE GUARD FOR THE Y.M.C.A.

BYLINE: By TRACY B. STRONG; Tracy B. Strong, the son of China missionaries and the co-author of ''Right in Her Soul: The Life of Anna Louise Strong,'' teaches political theory at the University of California, San Diego.

 BODY:

GOLDEN INCHES
The China Memoir of Grace Service.
Edited by John S. Service.
Illustrated. 346 pp. Berkeley:
University of California Press. $19.95.
The foreign Christian presence in China in the first 40 years of this century increasingly appears to have been an important contributing factor in the slow development of the Chinese revolution between 1911 and 1949. Some sense of this can be gathered from John Hersey's fine novel ''The Call.'' Yet that book and most others on the subject remain focused on the men who lived for their ''call.'' Grace Service's memoir, ''Golden Inches,'' helps us understand that often behind those men, making their work possible, were equally extraordinary women. 
It is a wonderful, sad, moving memoir by an indomitable American who went to China with her husband. Inspired like so many others by the brilliant and charismatic John R. Mott of the Student Volunteer Movement, Bob Service and his wife arrived in China in 1905, before the end of the empire, before the beginning of the revolution. They lived there until 1934, 30 of the most turbulent years in Chinese history.
Service was a Y.M.C.A. secretary based in Sichuan, and, from the image presented here, he was saintly. Completely dedicated to the Y, he labored long and hard to build an indigenous self-help movement in China. Indeed, like many others, he came to feel that ''he had no place in America.'' Behind and beside him, and making his life possible, was his highly intelligent, reflective, well-read and artistic wife, a woman who was self-disciplined rather than overtly pious.
The point of view in the memoir remains hers; the book is only secondarily about successes and failures in bringing the Y's programs to China. The revolution itself is something that happens to her, and must be dealt with like a natural event. ''Golden Inches'' is not a book to read for a new interpretation of the early stages of the Chinese revolution. Rather, it is about the support that men like Bob Service had to have in order to be able to carry out their vocation.
And what support it was - a kind of marriage that seems to have all but disappeared in our time. ''I thought I had given you certainty when I brought you to China,'' Service remarked apologetically to his wife in 1934, after being ''demobilized'' by the Y.M.C.A. in response to economic pressures. Such a vision of ''certainty'' could only be that which a shared sense of vocation can bring. By the time the Services had reached Chengdu (by boat, up the Yangtze) in 1905, their first-born, an infant daughter, had died of dysentery and Bob had contracted a severe case of malaria; within a year, Grace had at least one miscarriage. They still knew no Chinese.
But the Services endured - through civil war, battles, disease, riots - because in a way almost unspoken, but nonetheless absolutely firm, they had each other. After one episode outside their compound wall, Grace Service remarked: ''We heard that there had been some 150 to 200 executions, but soon the whole episode was merely an incident in the course of daily life.'' The Services came to love China and drew strength from it. Their three sons were born in Sichuan.
If the Services tried to accept China as it presented itself to them, they had more trouble with other foreigners. Again and again there are telling passages about the standoffish, almost imperial attitudes of fundamentalist missionaries who put doctrine above love, in contrast to the attempts of the Y to develop a Chinese-based organization. It is interesting to note that the Protestant churches in China are currently trying to follow the pattern of development set by the Y. The Services were people equal to the turbulence of the times in which they lived. ''Golden Inches'' not only gives many fascinating glimpses of historical events; more important, it shows us what it meant to live through those events and deal with them without rancor, resentment or facile anger and enthusiasm. It reads fluidly and plainly. Like most of her generation, Grace Service was not introspective, but her memoir is all the more powerful for not being so: it extends our concept of what can be ordinary.
John S. Service, a Foreign Service officer in China from 1933 until 1945 and one of the first United States Government officials to have understood the nature of the developing Chinese revolution, has expertly edited and annotated his mother's memoir. He has filled in necessary historical information, and he shows just enough filial rebellion in his footnotes to give the reader an added sense of the family.

GRAPHIC: Grace Service in Shanghai, abut 1939 (From ''Golden Inches'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: REVIEW

TITLE: GOLDEN INCHES: THE CHINA MEMOIR OF GRACE SERVICE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (73%); YANGTZE RIVER (58%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHN S JAMES CO (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (60%); 

PERSON: STRONG, TRACY B; SERVICE, GRACE; SERVICE, JOHN S JOHN RICHARD HERSEY (57%); 



127 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: A PEOPLE UNDER LOCK AND KEY

BYLINE: By DAIVD SPANIER; David Spanier is a diplomatic correspondent for Independent Radio News in London.

 BODY:

WALL
The Inside Story of Divided Berlin.
By Peter Wyden.
Illustrated. 762 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $27.50.
Ugly, anti-human, provocatively divisive, the Berlin wall has been the political symbol of the cold war. I use the past tense because the wall, evidently enough, is coming down. It may not be removed tomorrow, or even in the next few months, but it will surely disappear in a year or two, unless some unforeseen and disastrous reversal of the whole Gorbachev revolution supervenes. 
Note that the wall is not coming down because the East German regime has seen the light of liberty. It is crumbling because the economic and philosophical system that underpinned it, the mortar that held the whole hateful edifice in place, has collapsed.
Peter Wyden's ''Wall'' is timely. Although it was written before the extraordinary events of recent months, when thousands of East Germans voted with their feet and fled to West Germany and Erich Honecker, the East German leader of 18 years, was ousted, the book sums up one of the crucial events, perhaps the touchstone, of the postwar era.
The Berlin wall, of course, was built in 1961 to keep the East Germans in. That dire need remains. But now, instead of using force and repression - which East Germans will no longer tolerate without a struggle - to hold the people in place, the East German Government itself must change. Whether it can become more responsive to its citizens' aspirations leads to the explosive question of a united Germany. The end of the wall, therefore, will likely raise a new problem.
This book recalls in fine detail how the wall came to be built. It went up suddenly and secretly, to the surprise of the Western allies. At this distance, the event can be viewed with some piquancy and, on occasion, wit. The most entertaining section of ''Wall'' describes how the West's muddled espionage failed to provide warning of the East German plan. It was like a John le Carre spy thriller, but played out as farce.
Mr. Wyden, an American who was born in Berlin, is the author of ''Day One: Before Hiroshima and After,'' ''Bay of Pigs: The Untold Story'' and other books. Accordingly, he has the journalist's virtue of having dug into the records and talked to many of those involved. His style is fast-paced, his analysis only skin-deep, but the depth of his affection for Berlin is never in doubt.
And what a dreadful, mock-heroic epic the story of the Berlin wall is: mock because of the inadequacies of the West; heroic because the building of the wall, it turned out, risked nuclear war. ''The Berlin crisis of 1961,'' the author writes, ''would never be recognized as a time of acute nuclear danger. Yet it was. It was the first time that a major power openly threatened another with nuclear annihilation'' - when the Soviet leader Nikita S. Khrushchev bluffed President John F. Kennedy at the Vienna summit. ''I've got a terrible problem,'' Kennedy told the journalist James Reston. ''If [Khrushchev] thinks I'm inexperienced and have no guts, until we remove those ideas we won't get anywhere with him. So we have to act.'' Mr. Wyden concludes: ''The President now calculated there was one chance in five that Berlin would lead to nuclear war. But who could be sure? Perhaps the risk was greater?''
The cynical view of the East Berliners and the calculation of the Soviet side was that the West would not take serious action against the wall. They were right. (Secretary of State Dean Rusk, went one joke of the day, ''is a recorded announcement.'') ''You must do something!'' Willy Brandt, the Mayor of West Berlin, exclaimed to the American, British and French generals who governed the city. It took many months and the 1962 Cuban missile crisis before that something happened - Kennedy's inspired declaration, in June 1963, to the city and to the world: ''Ich bin ein Berliner.'' It became the most famous phrase of the cold war.
The first half of this big book makes racy reading. The second, containing a lot of factitious material about what happened later, somewhat diminishes what would otherwise have been a much sharper and more salutary jab at our forgetfulness about recent history. But the many moving moments and the tributes to individual courage recorded by Mr. Wyden serve as reminders that the Berlin wall was not about bricks and barbed wire in defense of Marxism, but about people.
 

 
THE UGLIEST LANDMARK
 Before Peter Wyden fled Berlin in 1937, his childhood was scarred by anti-Semitism. In school, he said, his teacher would ''lecture that Jews were the direct descendants of the Devil. And I was the only Jewish kid in the class. Everyone would turn around and look at me to see if my horns were showing.''
He returned to Europe in 1945 with the United States Army, and he stayed on in Berlin for a year working for a military newspaper. It was a historical moment, he said in a telephone interview from his home in Connecticut, a time Germans now call the ''Zero Hour,'' the start of the modern era.
In 1965, Mr. Wyden again journeyed to Berlin, this time with his sons. He realized that the most vivid memory they would have of their father's birthplace was the Berlin wall, and the idea for a book about his native city and its ugliest landmark took root. He said that one revelation in ''Wall'' pleases him more than any other. After two years trying to discover how the East Germans managed to keep their plans for the wall secret, Mr. Wyden found a man who had been forgotten by history - the executive assistant at the time the wall was built to the recently ousted East German leader, Erich Honecker. Mr. Wyden said he rushed to the East to meet the man, and much of what he learned had never before been committed to paper: ''If you were to read these paragraphs to C.I.A. people who were in Berlin at the time, I can guarantee what their reaction would be. They would be quite, quite interested.''
 
J. R. MOEHRINGER

GRAPHIC: The Berlin Wal in 1976. German inscription reads ''Vote SED'' (Socialist Unity Party, the official party of East Germany) (Thomas Hoepker) (pg. 7); Peter Wyden (Elaine Seaton) (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: REVIEW

TITLE: WALL: THE INSIDE STORY OF DIVIDED BERLIN (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (99%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (89%); COLD WAR (77%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (72%); ESPIONAGE (61%); 

PERSON: SPANIER, DAVID; WYDEN, PETER ERICH HONECKER (55%); 



128 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES: The Starrett Proposal;
Giving Housing a Push in Spring Creek

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
THE occasional visitor to Starrett City, the 5,800-unit rental development near the Shore Parkway in southeastern Brooklyn, might be puzzled by the wording of the welcoming sign. It no longer says Starrett City. It now reads ''Welcome to Starrett at Spring Creek.''
The subtle message is that the builders of Starrett City are now developing surrounding land. In the end, Starrett City may become the high-rise centerpiece in a greatly expanding Spring Creek residential district of Brooklyn, running from Fresh Creek on the west to the Queens line.
The new housing would be owner-occupied, low-rise town houses and apartments. Starrett City itself, which opened in the early 70's, may well convert to co-ops or condominiums in the mid-90's, when its first mortgage comes due and a Federal Section 8 subsidy runs out. 
The major element in the building program would be $1 billion in new construction of a planned low-rise community, called Spring Creek Estates, proposed by Starrett Housing Corporation. It would have 4,700 housing units as well as schools, parks and other public facilities, on 230 acres of urban-renewal land east of Starrett City.
The Department of Housing Preservation and Development has given major builders - with minimum assets of $100 million - until Nov. 13 to submit competitive bids for the land under terms that essentially have been negotiated with the Starrett development team. The city would supply about $100 million in the form of $25,000 a unit in assistance for 3,600 income-limited, or ''affordable,'' for-sale units, which helps the builder cover the cost of the on-site improvements, including roads, sewers, water mains, parks and sidewalks, and a bridge across a creek to facilitate acces to the Shore Parkway.
From the standpoint of overall city housing policy, the Spring Creek Estates proposal focuses attention on the direction that Mayor Edward I. Koch's 10-year, $5.1 billion housing program has taken in the middle of its fourth year.
But on two smaller sites close to Starrett City, low-rise home ownership development is already proceeding. The prime financial partner in the two projects is the 68-year-old Disque D. Deane, who in 1985 became managing general partner in the Starrett City ownership group. Robert C. Rosenberg, chairman of Grenadier Realty Corporation, the Starrett subsidiary that manages Starrett City, is the project manager. He also heads Starrett's Spring Creek development team.
''We have one of the finest integrated rental developments on the East Coast,'' said Mr. Deane, who was the Lazard Freres & Company partner who brought together the equity capital for Starrett City. The racial composition was fixed at 65 percent white and 35 percent minority until a United States Supreme Court decision last year obliged the development to rent out vacancies on a color-blind basis. New waiting lists are expected to tilt the ratio toward more minority occupancy by a point or two over a year. Turnover is slow.
Whatever the racial composition, new home ownership on surrounding property is likely to solidify the development and its surroundings. The first new project, The Landings at Fresh Creek, is already in the early stage of construction on 13 acres of the wetlands that protect Fresh Creek, just west of Starrett City.
There are to be 282 condominiums in three-story town houses with salmon-brick facades trimmed in stone and built in five clusters. It is a market-rate, as-of-right development, with 204 two-bedroom, two-bath units of about 1,100 square feet and 78 three-bedroom, two-bath units of about 1,400 square feet. Each unit will have a separate entrance to the street, and each will get one on-site parking space. The architect is Herbert Mandel of Manhattan.
ACCORDING to Harvey Rudman, the managing general partner in the project, the first 114 condominiums will go on the market in February for occupancy next summer. Initial prices are expected to start at about $170,000 for the two-bedrooms and about $220,000 for the three-bedrooms.
The second project has been named Fresh Creek Estates. It is a plan for 477 housing units on a 14-acre site at Flatlands Avenue and Pennsylvanian Avenue, with 267 market-rate town houses and 210 affordable units. This would be a gatehhouse community with a pair of roads along an interior street system, with 210 spaces of covered parking and 267 of open parking.
The developers are proposing state and city assistance totaling about $25,000 a unit, or $5.2 million, to help offset the cost of covered parking and the relatively high land cost for a site that had previously been intended for commercial use. In the affordable units, buyers would meet moderate- to middle-income eligibility standards of the New York City Partnership. Marketed today, the housing would sell mainly to families earning $35,000 to $53,000 a year.
A REZONING is required for the large-scale site plan, which has been developed by the firm of Gruzen Samton Steinglass with Mr. Mandel. The public review is expected next year.
These two projects represent an investment of approximately $115 million, and no small statement of faith in Spring Creek's capacity to draw home buyers. But they fade in significance in comparison with the 4,700-unit Spring Creek Estates plan. It would bring not only housing but also 104,000 square feet of of retail space, 20,000 square feet of professional office space, two elementary schools and an intermediate school.
There would be a 50,000-square-foot community clubhouse with a swimming pool, 65 acres of landscaped public open space, sites reserved for religious or institutional use, and a 60,000-square-foot parcel for an industrial use. The master plan is being done by Cooper Robertson & partners.
The housing component, besides its affordable-housing units, also would have 500 market-rate units, 400 units for the elderly, and 200 units sold to families with incomes in the high $20,000 to low $30,000 range. Buyers of the affordable units will have incomes in the middle $30,000 to low $50,000 range.
In decades to come, Spring Creek could well emerge as a total planned-unit development, with owner-occupied high-rises as its centerpiece and the Estates as its low-rise component, all under single management.
The plan also provides for 50 units to be reserved for use by the state Office of Mental Health, which agreed to yield its claim to 30 acres of land in the urban-renewal area where a children's psychiatric center was once planned. The agency will also be allowed 20 units at Starrett City itself.
From the standpoint of city housing policy, the 4,700-unit Spring Creek Estates plan would provide about 16 percent of the estimated 30,000 new housing units that Mayor Koch hopes to see built under the 10-year plan. It is a big step forward.
An argument could be made that a development consuming as much land as Spring Creek Estates might be planned for a greater diversity of housing types. But the housing build-up in the middle-income spectrum is needed as a boost to the city's attractiveness for the younger workers it needs for economic growth.
The concept of keeping a development of such scale in the hands of one professionally and financially capable development team, which already has a demonstrated commitment to the location, probably would mean, in the end, a better quality of development, a better prospect of completion and a greater asset to the city's housing supply.

GRAPHIC: Outlined are sites of projects adjoining Starrett at Spring Creek that will greatly expand the residential district; rendering of housing units planned at the Landings at Fresh Creek development

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SHO (AMEX) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (69%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (69%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (62%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STARRETT HOUSING CORP (69%); GRENADIER REALTY CORP (62%); LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;STARRETT CITY; SPRING CREEK ESTATES (BKLYN, NY)

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); MAYORS (74%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (65%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); APPEALS (50%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S



129 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 10; Page 11, Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:

Getting a Code Copy
Question: I have seen references in the newspaper citing various parts of the state's rent-stabilization code designed to help protect tenant rights. I would like to see the guidelines in their entirety. How can I obtain or purchase a copy? . . . B. J., Forest Hills, Queens
Answer: You can buy copies of the code for $54 from Lenz Riecker Publishers, the company that has the contract to print the state's laws and regulations. To order, send a check or money order for the purchase price, plus the amount of any local sales tax, to Lenz Riecker Publishers, 1 Columbia Place, Albany, N.Y. 12207. You will also need to identify the document, in this case Title No. 9, Volume A-1. 
You also can read the code at any of the rent offices of the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal.
 
Who Fixes a Leak?
Question: I am a rent-stabilized tenant in a building that has been converted in to a co-op. For several weeks there has been a bad leak in the ceiling of my bathroom which is now causing the plaster to crumble and fall. There must be some sort of problem with the plumbing in the apartment above me. Whom do I contact to have the leak fixed and the damage in my bathroom repaired, the landlord or the occupant of the apartment upstairs? . . . M. M., Brooklyn
Answer: Whoever holds the shares assigned to your apartment - either the sponsor of the conversion plan or an investor shareholder - is your landlord and has ultimate responsibility for maintaining your apartment.
The corporation, on the other hand, is responsible for maintaining the structure and its board will probably decide if it or your upstairs neighbor should pay for repairs made necessary by the leak.
But from a practical standpoint, you can notify the building's superintendent or some other representative of the company hired to manage and maintain the building. If the problem is not solved by the management company within a reasonable amount of time, you can contact the shareholder of your apartment. If this does not produce the desired results, file a complaint with the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal. Even though the building is no longer a rental residence, the agency still has jurisdiction over the remaining rent-regulated apartments.
 
Built-In Furnishings
Question: Two years ago I rented an apartment in Manhattan with elaborate built-in furnishings, including a conversation pit, a platform bed, cabinets, sliding partitions and a rooftop deck. To obtain the rent-stabilized lease, I purchased the installed furniture from the previous tenant. My ownership of the installations was noted in a side letter of agreement, signed by the landlord, which says it is my option to either leave the furnishings or restore the apartment to its previous condition.
After numerous problems with the apartment and the building owner, I have decided to cut my losses and vacate at the end of my lease. Recently the owner has made noises about how expensive it will be to remove the furnishings. I reminded him about the letter. What is my legal position on this matter? . . . C. C., Manhattan
Answer: The strength of the letter depends on how it was drafted, according to Magda Cruz, an attorney with the firm of Belkin Burden Wenig & Goldman.
''Such a letter would not have to be part of the lease to be enforceable,'' she said. ''But what is important is that it says exactly what is to be done and under what circumstances, and that both parties have indicated that they agree to the terms of the agreement by signing it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 10, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of incorrect information supplied by Lenz Riecker Publishers, the Q & A column on Nov. 5 misstated the number to use when ordering a copy of the New York State Rent Stabilization Code.
The correct number is Title 9, Executive Volume D.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SALES TAX (72%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (71%); JURISDICTION (60%); 



130 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2208 words

HEADLINE: Do Housing Covenants Intrude on Rights?

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
FOR a quick glimpse at the housing frontier, consider the garage doors in a development planned by Bernard Bossom in Easton, Conn., and the plants on the deck of Stephen E. Barton's home near Berkeley, Calif.
Both are covered by covenants and deed restrictions - legal controls over the design and use of homes that are becoming commonplace in American subdivisions. Proponents say the controls, which have been applied to everything from the color of Venetian blinds to doghouse architecture, are encouraging good taste, fostering community spirit and raising property values.
But critics insist that the covenants and deed restrictions are an insidious force, sometimes threatening an Orwellian intrusion into the lives and property rights of homeowners across the nation.
Mr. Bossom, who is marketing a subdivision of 37 lots for large new homes, most of them costing over $800,000, is a believer. Those purchasing in his development, Easton Woods, must agree to dozens of covenants, including rules that prohibit cutting down trees, dictate a minimum floor area of 4,000 square feet in every house, and require garages big enough for three cars. 
The developer said his garage doors posed a tough question. One covenant requires that they be hidden from view from the road, and he said he considered requiring electronic openers as an inducement to keeping the doors shut.
''I have an obligation to safeguard the design and character of the community,'' said Mr. Bossom, who, in the end, decided garage door openers represented ''an area of too much detail'' and would not be dictated by his legal covenants, which fill five pages.
In California, Mr. Barton, a city planner, is trying to understand one of the many deed restrictions covering his nine-year old town house on a hillside in Albany, just north of Berkeley.
No neophyte, he directed a 1988 research project into deed restrictions by the University of California at Berkeley and serves as president of the homeowners' association in his own subdivision. He is still perplexed. ''What in the world is an aggressive flowering plant?'' he said, referring to a type of vegetation that is barred from his deck. One likely explanation is that the covenant is intended to protect the subdivision from being overgrown by flowers, but Mr. Barton said he is not certain.
''Some deed restrictions are perfectly appropriate,'' he said. ''But some are not communicated well, and some are outright excessive.''
DESPITE such problems, the use of restrictions is growing rapidly across the nation. An analysis this year found that 17 percent of the American population was living in homes whose design or use was governed by conditions in their deeds or covenants. Twenty years ago, only 1 percent of the population was affected by such restrictions, according to James L. Winokur, a professor of law at the University of Denver, who conducted the study of deeds and covenants.
The controls, almost universal in large condominium projects, are less common - but growing more rapidly - among detached, single-family-home subdivisions and town-house communities.
In most cases, the legal restrictions are written by developers before any of their lots or homes are sold. Homeowners' associations and architectural review boards often implement the rules and mediate disputes. But their intercession is not essential. Indeed, since deed restrictions and covenants are legally binding, it can be left to neighbors to force compliance through the courts.
In the suburbs around New York City, Boston and other Northeastern cities, the restrictions are being used most commonly by developers of expensive subdivisions, who find lengthy lists of covenants a valuable marketing tool. The controls create an image of exclusivity and provide assurances to buyers that others will not build obtrusive homes.
''The idea is to protect people from their neighbors' bad taste,'' said Douglas Kleine, director of research for the Community Associations Institute, an organization based in Alexandria, Va., representing the boards of condominiums and homeowner associations. ''We find that insuring harmony of design tends to preserve and enhance property values.''
Developers in the Sun Belt states, particularly California, have been the most aggressive in the use of the legal controls in new subdivisions. Mr. Barton's 1988 study found that 40 percent of all new homes being built in California were covered by some form of deed restriction or covenant, and the proportion in fast-growing Orange County in Southern California had reached 80 percent.
The variety of restrictions is huge. Satellite dishes, aluminum siding, basketball hoops, exposed clothes lines, fences, pets, flagpoles and outdoor parking spaces for trucks, recreational vehicles or boat trailers are among the most common targets for exclusion. Pink flamingo garden ornaments are banned specifically in some cases.
The covenants often set forth general guidelines on architecture - saying, for example, that homes must be of ''traditional'' or ''colonial'' style - and detailed plans are subject to approval by architectural review boards. But many of the rules are specific, dictating how large homes must be, what building materials must be used and what color they must be painted.
''THERE are vastly more covenants being used, and one result is that more problems are arising,'' said Wayne Hyatt, an Atlanta lawyer who has a full-time practice representing developers and homeowners' associations in their legal disputes with those who violate their covenants.
Some recent cases described by Mr. Hyatt reflect the potential for conflict:
* A homeowners' association in Atlanta unsuccessfully tried to stop a woman from giving piano lessons in her living room, citing a covenant that prohibited using her home for business purposes.
* A homeowners association in Anchorage, Alaska, forced a couple to remove three television antennas from their roof. The couple said they liked watching several televisions at the same time.
* A group of wealthy homeonwers in Oklahoma City, having purchased in a tightly controlled subdivision of homes priced over $1 million, sought unsuccessfully to have their neighbor's satellite dish removed from his front yard.
One problem facing some homeowners is that state laws covering disclosure of the covenants and deed restrictions vary widely, and some families have bought property without realizing the constraints under which they must live.
''If the purchaser is not well represented, he might not be told of the restrictions,'' said Gurdon Buck, a Hartford lawyer who writes covenants and deed restrictions for developers. Connecticut law requires formal disclosure only where the homeowners associations that implement the restrictions assess a fee. Such fees are common, but not universal.
In New York, New Jersey and many other states, no formal disclosure is required, meaning that buyers or their lawyers must closely scrutinize deeds of the property they plan to buy to find the restrictions.
Another problem with the restrictions is that they are difficult, if not impossible, to change once they are established by a developer. Typically, any change requires a unanimous or majority vote by the affected homeowners, Mr. Buck said.
LITIGATION over the deed restrictions and covenants has become a growth industry. The 1988 study by Professor Winokur on deed restrictions and covenants in American homes found that the number of state court decisions involving the restrictions doubled between 1982 and 1987 and Mr. Barton, in his research in California, found that 5 percent of the state's homeowners' associations had been sued during the prior year over the deed restrictions and covenants.
''There are a lot of homeowners' associations out there enforcing rules that they don't fully agree with,'' said Mr. Winokur.
A result, he added, is that the same deed restrictions designed to foster community spirit are creating tension between neighbors.
''If you are trying to create a sense of community you ought to be looking at structures that encourage neighbors to talk to each other, not just their lawyers,'' he said.
Covenants and deed restrictions, although much more widespread over the last decade, are not new in American housing. Until they were largely outlawed by Federal civil rights legislation in 1948 and entirely stricken by the Civil Rights Act of 1964, such restrictions were used as a tool by segregationists, prohibiting the resale of homes to blacks, Jews or members of other minorities.
Although such covenants still exist in some deeds that have been held for decades by an individual or members of the same family, lawyers say they should be ignored. Indeed, sellers who adhere to discriminatory conditions in their deeds would be violating the law themselves and could be sued or even face criminal prosecution.
Another form of discriminatory covenant - barring children from subdivisions and condominium complexes - was largely outlawed this year by amendments to the Federal Fair Housing Act. The so-called ''active adult'' retirement communities and most other retirement communities, except those that abide by rigorous Federal guidelines on the age of the residents and the services they are provided, must now open their doors to families with children.
Covenants and deed restrictions on the design of homes, size of lots and use of common areas have been used by developers for over a century, although less frequently than over the last decade. Proponents say some have been particularly successful, providing examples for the current spate of legal restrictions.
One example is Reston, Va., a tightly restricted community of 19,000 homes west of Washington that began to be developed in the mid-60's. Those building in Reston must adhere to design guidelines that fill a 50-page book and cover myriad details, from architectural style to the color of exterior walls. A master deed for the community also includes many prohibitions - window air-conditioners, clothes lines and television antennas are among the dozens of things barred - and its homeowners association is empowered to force residents to keep their property in good condition, sometimes putting liens on homes and performing maintenance work itself.
Although the community is generally considered a social and real estate success, Reston's residents say some of the idealism that accompanied its creation has come under strain. Among recent changes in its bylaws have been greater protections against harassment and lawsuits against homeowners, including rules requiring written notice before a suit is filed or a lien placed.
''The original people in Reston came with a utopian spirit, but things have changed,'' said Thomas Burgess, executive vice president of the Reston Association, the community's homeowners association. ''People here now are not social pioneers. They are established couples, yuppies and two-income families. Things have just gotten more conservative.''
Developers say few in the current wave of covenants and deed restrictions have been inspired by a Utopian vision. Nor are the restrictions being used for huge developments like Reston, which are no longer being planned because of the scarcity of large tracts of undeveloped land in the suburbs of most cities.
Instead, they say the expanding use of legal restrictions on the design and use of homes has been prompted by rules being imposed on developments by local sanitary districts, planning boards and environmental review agencies.
SINCE developers planning new subdivisions must increasingly write convenants that require homowners to maintain roads, waste-water treatment plants, wildlife preserves and other common facilities, they are also turning to covenants to impose their own vision of community design and character.
''You can no longer build a subdivision for the Ozzie and Harriet model household,'' said Mr. Buck, the Hartford lawyer. He added that covenants are being written by developers to ''find niches'' and ''distinguish one development from another.''
One danger, some say, is that developers using the legal restrictions as a marketing tool may limit their options when economic cyles turn down and home sales weaken. Many builders in Southern California were left with unsold lots in subdivisions that required large, expensive homes when real estate sales in that state turned down early in the 1980's, they say.
A result in California was bitter disputes between homeowners who had invested in subdivisions because they liked the exclusivity created by their deed restrictions and covenants, and developers with unsold lots who suddenly wanted to liberalize the rules. Indeed, some analysts say similar problems may develop in the suburbs around New York City and Boston, where sales volume and prices have been on a two-year decline.
''If you build in a lack of flexibility, it almost guarantees problems,'' said Mr. Hyatt, the Atlanta lawyer specializing in deed restrictions and covenants. ''A lot of developers have lost money on the proposition that they could confine themselves to a market for very large homes.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 1); Bernard Bossom outside three-car garage at house he is building in Easton, Conn; Thomas Burgess of the Reston Association, on a street in the planned community in Reston, Va. (The New York Times/Susan Harris, Ken Heinen) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS (90%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J



131 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 2, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Lincoln Park Journal;
Airport and Borough Disagree on Future

BYLINE: By ALBERT J. PARISI

DATELINE: LINCOLN PARK

 BODY:
WHEN the weather is fine, the small airfield in this Morris County borough is a private pilot's delight. But the airfield and its proposed improvement have become sources of disagreement among its owners, borough administrators and state environmental officials.
''What we want to do here serves the good of a vast number of people, but the obstacles that we've been asked to clear are unfair and unwarranted,'' said Dr. George Peck, a Clifton plastic surgeon, pilot and co-owner of the airfield, which is known as Lincoln Park Airport.
''If they left us alone, this could be a model airport and, most important, an especially safe airport,'' he said, ''but we can only do so much with our hands tied and the field restricted.''
The borough's Mayor, Michael Harrigan, says, however, that Lincoln Park has been striving in recent years to retain its rural identity by controlling development and that the airport, as an integral part of the community, must adhere to borough and state rules. 
For the last four years, Dr. Peck and Joseph A. Rendeiro, a Lincoln Park-based oil-storage farm owner and the other co-owner of the airport, have been trying to get permission to build a new runway and hangars some 500 feet west of an existing use-worn runway and taxiways that date to 1935, when the former celery farm was converted to a grass runway for a flying club.
The airport is an uncontrolled field, meaning that it has no air traffic control tower to guide flights. Pilots using the field follow visual flight rules.
After tests and studies were commissioned by the airport's owners and plans were submitted to the local Planning Board, borough officials chose to put the proposal on hold, deciding that the airfield was in a flood zone - 60 percent of this community near the base of Hook Mountain is so designated by the state - and that jurisdiction over such new construction fell to the State Department of Environmental Protection and the Army Corps of Engineers.
Applications were filed for a Federal Aviation Administration grant of $1.5 million to cover about 90 percent of the construction since the airfield is a state-recognized reliever airport to which excessive light-aircraft traffic from Teterboro Airport in Bergen County is diverted. But additional wetland tests required by the corps were time-consuming, Dr. Peck said, and the approved F.A.A. grant was lost because construction did not occur within a year's time.
Since reapplication would have again been costly and time-consuming, Dr. Peck said, he and Mr. Rendeiro decided to apply to the borough for permission to resurface the existing runway.
''Again the Planning Board said that they couldn't help us and that it was up to the D.E.P. to authorize permission,'' Dr. Peck said.
The Department of Environmental Protection approved the project under the condition that the runway's dimensions would not be altered. The borough, Dr. Peck and Mr. Rendeiro said, ruled that because the runway was in a flood-sensitive area, resurfacing would be permitted only if the landing strip was not raised above its present height.
''What they were telling us was to go right ahead and lay down a new surface, but you're going to have to dig up what you have down,'' Mr. Rendeiro said. ''So in terms of dollars and cents, what should have wound up costing us about $100,000 is going to run about $1.2 million. For that kind of money, we could just as easily have put in that new runway.''
Both men said the new field would have changed takeoffs and landings to over an undeveloped zone and would have further reduced the chance of aborted takeoffs and possible crashes, as well as noise complaints from neighborhoods.
Last month, the Planning Board approved the resurfacing project, said Harold C. Krulder, the board's chairman. While he said he could understand the airport owners' frustrations over building applications and environmental requirements, Mr. Krulder and other borough officials said that harassment of the owners was not the borough's intent.
''The fact of the matter is that the airport, like a good part of this town, is in a flooding zone,'' Mr. Krulder said. ''There are laws restricting use and what can be done on such land. On that, the D.E.P. is quite clear.''
Dr. Peck and Mr. Rendeiro feel that the borough and state agencies have created costly delays so that airport projects would eventually be scrapped.
''This is a privately owned airfield used by the public,'' Mr. Rendeiro said, ''and to go to all this trouble is ludicrous. If I wanted to go ahead and resurface my private driveway by my house, would I have to get this kind of written permission?'' Borough officials said that such a comparison did not apply here. Mayor Harrigan said that air traffic at the field appeared to have increased in recent years and that noise levels had generated complaints from residents.
Some longtime residents and borough officials say privately that the proposed runway and support buildings raised fears that the airfield would further increase its operations. The airport averages some 179,000 arrivals and departures annually, and there are 200 single- and twin-engine aircraft based there as well as a helicopter operation. It is feared that a renovated airfield would open it to small-jet traffic that would add to the noise and safety problem.
But Mr. Rendeiro and Dr. Peck are quick to point out that the proposed airstrip would have been 500 feet shorter than the existing 3,000-foot runway, making it suitable for only piston-driven aircraft and helicopters with the exception of emergency landings.
''What I think we all have to do is understand each other's position a bit more clearly,'' said Steven Schweer, the Borough Council president. ''People feel that a new runway means more traffic and larger types of aircraft, but that's not necessarily the case. As a whole, this community has to understand the airport's needs and it has to understand ours.''
He said that some excessive noise might have been caused by pilots unfamiliar with the airfield and its restrictions, but that that problem was up to the airport owners to police.
Councilman Herman S. Nadel said the airfield was not the only project that had run afoul of environmental decrees over flood-sensitive areas.
''A while back, we wanted to build a local park in that general area and the D.E.P. put a stop to it because of the flooding issue,'' he said. ''If our hands are being tied, they are being tied for both of us.''
The airfield's resurfacing will be done in the spring and the airport will be closed for two weeks, Dr. Peck said.
''We have a great potential here to serve many facets of this community and the aviation community,'' he said, adding that if privately owned airfields throughout the state were tied up by bureaucratic red tape, many would close and air traffic congestion would increase over Newark International and Teterboro Airports.
New Jersey is losing an average of one privately owned airfield a year because of economic reasons, said Paul H. Baker, acting director of the State Department of Transportation's Office of Aviation. Currently there are 14 publicly owned fields in operation like Newark and Teterboro and 41 private general aviation sites like Lincoln Park Airport.
''Airlines are having trouble hiring pilots because there are fewer and fewer small fields in which to train,'' said Erica Graham of West Nyack, N.Y., a flight instructor at Lincoln Park Airport. ''If we don't take measures to keep fields like this one thriving, we're talking about serious problems in the future that will affect everyone, not just the state.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of map highlighting the area of Lincoln Park Airport; aerial view of the Lincoln Park Airport; Joseph A. Rendeiro co-owner (NYT/Bob Glass)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LINCOLN PARK BORING CO (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LINCOLN PARK AIRPORT

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS AIRPORTS (92%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (88%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); WETLANDS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); ARMIES (65%); FLOOD ZONES (50%); 

PERSON: PARISI, ALBERT J; RENDEIRO, JOSEPH A; PECK, GEORGE (DR); HARRIGAN, MICHAEL (MAYOR)



132 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 29, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: HOME CLINIC;
Precautions With Wood Stoves

BYLINE: By JOHN WARDE

 BODY:
IF you are planning to get a wood-burning stove, there are several things to consider before making a choice. First check with your building inspector or fire marshal to find out whether installing a wood stove is permitted where you live and what restrictions and requirements apply.
Decide early where to install the stove. This is important, for many decisions concerning what kind of stove to select derive from it. Factors involved in selecting a site are how much of a focal point in the home you would like the stove to be, whether or not the stove must supply heat to rooms other than the one in which it is installed and how the stove will be vented to the outside. 
Putting a wood stove in a large, frequently used room like a living room, family room or large kitchen is usually best, because there the stove's decorative and heating qualities, as well as its function as a gathering place, can all be enjoyed. But if the stove is intended primarily as a heat source, installing it in a more central although less convivial spot, such as a stairwell or a large foyer, may be appropriate.
Most stove supply stores carry ventilators and small fans that can be installed to direct the flow of heat throughout much of a house. These usually work well, provided the stove is strategically placed.
If a fireplace already exists, you may decide to obtain a stove that fits inside or in front of it. This can be a good idea if your intention is to economize on space or to take advantage of the readymade focal point that the existing fireplace provides.
Placing the stove in an existing fireplace also satisfies the need for a hearth, necessary to protect both the floor beneath the stove and the nearby walls from heat. But think twice before planning to install a wood stove in a fireplace solely to take advantage of the existing chimney. This may be neither practical nor economical, and code restrictions may prohibit it.
Modern wood stoves burn more slowly and at a lower temperature than most fireplace fires. Greater quantities of volatile gases are produced, and as these rise up the chimney, contact with the chimney walls causes some of them to condense and coat the walls with creosote, a flammable tar that is the chief cause of chimney fires.
To improve outdoor air quality, stove manufacturers have reduced the amount of volatile gases emitted by stoves, and this diminishes the buildup of creosote. Nevertheless, reducing creosote also depends on the swift exit of smoke up the chimney, and many chimneys designed for fireplaces are too large to enable the weak updraft produced by a modern wood stove to accomplish this.
The National Fire Prevention Association, a nonprofit organization whose recommendations are incorporated into many local building and safety codes, considers an efficient chimney to be one whose flue opening is no more than than two and a half times the area of the stove's opening. A chimney with a flue area more than three times that of the stove's does not meet association safety recommendations and may not be allowed by some local codes.
For example, the opening of one popular standard-sized flue measures 6 1/2 inches wide and 10 1/2 inches long. This yields an area of 68 1/4 square inches.
Most new stoves have 6-inch diameter outlets whose area equals about 28 1/4 square inches. Comparing these, the size of the chimney flue opening is between two and two and a half times that of the stove outlet. That is an acceptable ratio.
Even if the chimney is the right size, its condition may not meet the requirements of codes incorporating the latest standard of Underwriters Laboratories that it withstand temperatures of up to 2,100 degrees.
Unless you are certain of your chimney's dimensions and condition, have it examined by a professional fireplace mason or qualified chimney sweep. In cases where the chimney is not adequate to use with a wood stove, the usual remedy is either to install a masonry flue liner (there are several types) or to construct a wood stove chimney consisting of double-wall insulated steel pipe inside the present flue.
The cost of materials for both of these alternatives is often about the same. It is usually also similar to the cost of erecting a wood stove chimney separate from the existing chimney.
Wood stoves that are not installed in an existing fireplace are called free-standing. As mentioned, they require a hearth to protect the floor beneath them, and there also must be sufficient clearance between the stove and nearby combustible surfaces to protect these.
Many stoves are equipped with shielding underneath to reflect radiant heat coming from the bottom of the stove. Hearths for this type usually can consist of any noncombustible material, like brick or stone. Both must be mortared or set on a base of sand. Hearths for stoves without heat shields must also incorporate a layer of heat-proof material, like firebrick or mineral board.
The size of the hearth and the amount of clearance required between a stove and nearby surfaces vary according to the size and design of the stove. When estimating space requirements, allow at least 18 inches in front of the stove and 12 on each of the other three sides for the hearth. Between the stove and combustible surfaces other than the floor, allow a maximum of 36 inches.
Heat shielding similar to that used for hearths is available to protect walls. When this is used, clearances can be diminished, sometimes to less than 12 inches.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: HOME REPAIRS; HEATING BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (90%); VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (84%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (78%); FIRES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 



133 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 32, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY OPINION;
Their Trash Can Be Our Treasure

BYLINE: By Linda Prospero; Linda Prospero lives in Princeton.

 BODY:
I RECOGNIZED the symptoms shortly after we were married: a chronic need to drive slowly through neighborhoods on trash day and an uncanny ability to find treasure in someone else's discards.
Perhaps it was being the child of immigrants that gave my husband his irrepressible urge to seek out other people's unwanted goods. His parents did instill in him a sense of economy long before recycling became de rigueur. Or maybe his training as an engineer gave him the knowledge to figure out how things work, so naturally when a broken toaster came his way, his inclination was to fix it, rather than throw it out. 
His sense of frugality extends to all matters - not even the garbage can is exempt from his review. While some wives might conceal a bill from a hard day's trek to the shopping mall, it is more organic evidence I try, sometimes in vain, to dispose of.
''What, you threw away these perfectly good bread crusts?'' he queries. ''But they're moldy, dear,'' I coyly respond. ''No matter,'' he says, ''the birds will appreciate them.'' The local aviary population must have adored his recent offering of stale pizzelle.
I cannot always be as gracious, however, when his acquisitions begin competing for space in the garage with my car. I was understanding when he brought home the first lawn mower. I even helped him load it from the trash heap to our car (although he was the one who had to verify with the owner that it was indeed placed out for trash).
He immediately started tinkering with his new-found challenge when we got home. In only 15 minutes, the engine was purring. I praised him for his remarkable talent in unearthing and repairing used treasure.
Little did I know I was helping creating a monster. We added the lawn mower to the two we already owned (one was a riding mower, acquired used, of course), but his thirst for new quests was hardly satiated. The hunt was on, now with our 12-year-old son as willing and able conspirator, to track down and repair discarded lawn mowers within a five-mile radius.
Their discoveries were always serendipitous, usually found while en route to a football game, errands or other weekend activity. Over the weeks, it became a familiar sight to see the two males huddled together, trying to solve the mystery of their latest defunct find. The challenge never defeated them, and our garage slowly became home to seven lawn mowers.
Fortunately, new neighbors moved in (lawn-mowerless) and we alleviated their situation in a flash. We also changed the lawn-mower status of a Pennsylvania uncle who had previously used only a manual lawn mower.
And what a stroke of fate it was when I saw a newspaper ad: ''Used Lawn Mower Wanted.'' Did somebody out there know about us? To our amazement, we were actually paid for one of the remaining mowers. Could this be the start of a second career?
My husband doesn't limit his collecting to lawn mowers, however. Through the years he has astonished me with his finds. Coming home from church one Sunday, he spotted a mountainous trash pile with a sign above it stating, ''Help Yourself.'' A pasta machine in its original carton was too good to pass up. And the tripod and camera bag would be great for our nephew, a budding shutterbug. It was a real treasure trove, with plenty of other items left for the next passers-by.
Another time he was driving down an exclusive street in town and found a radio-tape deck in a garbage heap. Undaunted, he brought it back to life with only a few turns of some dials. Another victim of our throwaway society had found new life through my husband's hands.
Being the wife of such a skilled repairman and collector does have its down side. The toaster inherited from my husband's bachelor days is almost an antique, having been repaired many times over in its 25-year life. Perusing catalogues for a shiny new toaster-oven is just a futile exercise, since the old relic refuses to die. Its tenacity to sustain life despite numerous breakdowns has me wondering when I should have it bronzed.
I was really too smug when our 17-year-old dishwasher last gave out. My husband had nursed it through many illnesses, but the latest one seemed too difficult to diagnose. With its guts strewn all about the kitchen floor, he gave me the go-ahead to start shopping the appliance stores.
Before I ever got the chance, however, his ''one last try'' was successful. There went my visions of a pot-scrubbing cycle.
I have to confess that a little of my husband's penchant for reclaiming cast-offs has rubbed off on me. Recently I asked him to stop the car and back up to a trash pile we had just driven by. Leaning against a trash can was an old printer's tray, once used for holding metal type.
I envisioned it hanging on one of our walls holding small bits of memorabilia and bric-a-brac. We threw it into the car and dashed off. I was doubly satisfied to see a similar one, priced at $30, a few weeks later at a flea market.
At this point, the whole family has caught the fever, and although we don't always stop to pick up items we see strewn about the road, we are constantly amazed by the amount of booty that is out there waiting to be reclaimed by anyone with keen eyesight, and the nerve to stop and pick it up.
It also helps being married to Mr. Fix-It. When he opened up the engine to the mulcher he recently found, was he intimidated by the chewed-up wires and the rat's nest inside? Not at all. It took him a few days, but the shredded mulch now surrounding our marigolds is evidence of his persistence.
Now if only an automatic weeder could be found!

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL RETAILERS (71%); BIRDS (66%); 

PERSON: PROSPERO, LINDA



134 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 31, Column 2; Education Life

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: SPECIAL REPORT: THE AVERAGE STUDENT;
Coming of Age

BYLINE: By Laura Mansnerus

 BODY:
What is the average student like as a grown-up? Generally average, social scientists say, but you never can tell.
The question seems pressing now, not only because the education-reform movement of the 1980's has focused on the broad middle range of academic performance, but also because economists do not expect this range to match the middle of the evolving labor market. Simply put by Arnold H. Packer, co-author of the 1987 study ''Workforce 2000,'' ''The average young person is not good enough for the average new job.''
Social scientists, meanwhile, have been trying for years to figure out how to predict the average student's performance in the job market. To do so, they undertake the bulky, expensive and imprecise task of assessing an adult's success, parsing his background and then determining what early variables predicted later performance most accurately. 
In the search for these factors, researchers find a baffling conflation of socioeconomic status and intellectual ability. No single variable is very telling by itself, but if any one variable is more reliable than the others, according to a recent analysis of data from many studies of later-life success, it is scores on standardized intelligence tests.
Prof. John E. Hunter of Michigan State University, a psychologist who reported such research in several journals, said that ''general cognitive ability,'' as measured by standardized tests, is most useful as a predictor of ability in complex jobs, but that even at the center of the scale, a 15-point difference in score corresponds to at least a 15 percent difference in ratings on job performance.
But is a score on an I.Q. test meaningful in every job? ''The answer is yes, in every case,'' Professor Hunter said. The good news, he added, is that education increases intelligence-test scores, albeit modestly.
''Most people think of education in terms of specific things you learn,'' he said, ''and those would have no obvious application to, say, a firefighter. But the firefighter's ability to learn is influenced by education.''
What this means for the future - and the opinion is nearly unanimous - is that more education for more people in the middle might alleviate a dismal situation.
In ''Workforce 2000,'' Mr. Packer and William B. Johnston, both senior research fellows at the Hudson Institute, a research organization based in Indianapolis, projected job openings from 1984 to the year 2000 in 27 occupational categories. The biggest increase in demand, they found, will be for lawyers and judges (a 71 percent increase over existing jobs), scientists (68 percent) and health diagnosing and treating occupations (53 percent). Losses will occur in several unskilled occupations - miners (16 percent), agricultural and forestry workers (12 percent), and assemblers (7 percent).
 
Skill Ratings Have to Improve
Between the extremes were categories like mechanics (increasing by 23 percent), administrative support workers (20 percent) and sales and marketing (39 percent).
Another way Mr. Packer and Mr. Johnston analyzed the data was by rating the skills required in various jobs on a scale of 1 to 6. ''The biggest problems are in 2 and 3,'' Mr. Packer said. ''The people who are 2's and 3's'' - farmers and construction workers, for example - ''are going to have to become 3's and 4's'' - technicians and managers, for example.
''To the extent that any particular job gets more complicated,'' he added, ''it's even worse.''
For now, the profile of the average young worker is not that of the future technician and manager. A recent study of 21- to 25-year-olds conducted by the National Assessment of Educational Progress, found that fewer than 20 percent could decipher a difficult bus schedule and fewer than 40 percent could calculate the change due from a two-item restaurant meal.
While sociologists and economists sort out measures like that, educators are more likely to mention unmeasurable qualities - and to question common definitions of intelligence, itself a measure of many things, and success. ''I think attitude has more to do with it in our school than innate intelligence,'' said Dennis Littky, principal of Thayer High School in Winchester, N.H. ''I have some kids who are real pluggers and are real kind and work real hard, and I'll put my money on those kids. I'm usually right.''
Mr. Littky, who has won several national awards for his programs at Thayer, said about 55 percent of the students there went on to college. And who goes to college, he said, is ''mostly based on class stuff - social class.''
''I have a population of kids who will never be brains in the usual sense,'' he added, ''but will be very successful car mechanics and will be kind to their families and will be a success.''
 
Some Find No Performance-Ability Tie
Of course, some studies have found that in many jobs there is no relationship at all between performance and any measure of cognitive ability - grades, achievement tests, aptitude tests or educational level. Moreover, researchers caution that projections and correlations and statistical middle ranges are just that.
Robert Klitgaard, a visiting scholar at the Rand Corporation and author of the 1985 book ''Choosing Elites,'' said: ''When it comes to later-life success, in our society we do a lousy job of explaining that variation. You may think test scores and grades are crummy, but look at the rest of the things we have to go by.''
Moreover, he said, sometimes measures of ability matter a great deal in matching workers to jobs, and sometimes they don't. They matter, he said, if an employer has a widely divergent applicant pool or is selecting a few people from many applicants, or if fine distinctions are central to the job - say, a linebacker's position - that must be filled.
Finally, Mr. Klitgaard noted, achievement persists in being random. He cites the example developed by the sociologist Christopher Jencks: For two men between 25 and 64, randomly chosen, there will be a certain discrepancy in earnings. But even if the two men are brothers, with the same education, intelligence test scores and work experience, the discrepancy will still be 80 to 90 percent as big as the difference between the randomly chosen men.
Still, one's status as a student is hardly unimportant. Researchers agree that the average performer is better able to improve than is someone at the low end of the scale, and that the bottom is a worse and worse place to be.
''It's much less likely that a kid at the bottom of the scale is going to become a world leader than it is that a super-gifted kid will go down the drain,'' said Prof. James Connell of the University of Rochester, a motivation expert.
Practically all studies find that, whatever happens in the middle, the highest achievers in school do better than anyone else in later life. In a 1975 article measuring the professional progress of 976 white male college graduates working for the Ford Motor Company, for example, Prof. David A. Wise of Harvard found that it varied noticeably according to the selectivity of the colleges they went to and the grade-point averages they earned.
One large-scale study, surveying men who graduated from Wisconsin high schools in 1957, found that 14 years later, men who had I.Q. scores over 120 as 11th graders earned almost 40 percent more than those with scores of 80 or below. One of the researchers, Prof. Robert M. Hauser of the University of Wisconsin, said that reflected the fact that the first group, logically, had more education, and that the difference increases with work experience.
On the other hand, neither factor was important to another question on the survey, to which nine in ten replied that they were not dissatisfied at all with their jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (93%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (70%); JUDGES (50%); 

PERSON: MANSNERUS, LAURA



135 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 34, Column 1; Education Life

LENGTH: 2775 words

HEADLINE: Profile: Albert Shanker - Where He Stands

BYLINE: By Edward B. Fiske

 BODY:
ALBERT SHANKER is a man of a thousand surprises.
He came to national attention in the 1960's as the tough, aggressive leader of the New York City teachers' union, the man who twice went to jail for leading illegal strikes. ''I thought he was a reprehensible character,'' said Fletcher L. Byrom, the retired chairman of the Koppers Company Inc., the chemical manufacturer.
The image seemed indelible. In the 1973 Woody Allen movie ''Sleeper,'' the main character awakens in 2173 to find that the United States has been destroyed because ''a man named Albert Shanker got hold of a nuclear warhead.'' 
Yet today, that same Albert Shanker, at age 61, works closely with Mr. Byrom and other corporate leaders through the Committee for Economic Development and other groups seeking to improve American schools. ''Al Shanker understands the problems facing public schools better than any other person in the country,'' Mr. Byrom now says.
William Woodside, chairman of the board of Sky Chefs Inc., confesses that he, too, was startled to discover a thoughtful and open-minded union leader. ''But it's not a disguise,'' he commented. ''There's no Big Bad Wolf under Grandma's shawl.'' There is no granny there, either. The transformation of Albert Shanker from public pariah to educational statesman is rooted in his conviction that American schools are in trouble and that rescuing them will require radical changes in how both schools and teachers unions do business. Failure at this, he says, will lead to ''erosion of public confidence in public education'' and, just maybe, the privatization of public schools.
In the pursuit of such enlightened self-interest, Mr. Shanker has produced one shocker after another:
* In a 1985 speech to the National Press Club, he introduced the idea of a national test for teachers, which unions have long resisted, setting in motion the creation of the country's first national teacher-certification system, beginning in 1992.
* Looking at the declining number of families with children in the public schools, he decided that parents could no longer be relied on to assure adequate public spending for public schools. Now he consciously seeks alliances with the business community because ''it has a stake in quality education.''
* He believes that collective bargaining as usually perceived has outlived its usefulness by undermining public confidence in schools. Teachers, he says, should not only push for better wages and working conditions but also accept responsibility for educational outcomes. Unions should refuse to admit members who do not meet minimal professional standards.
* He has supported merit-pay plans in Tennessee and elsewhere, not because he likes the pay-for-performance theory, but because ''it seemed to be the only form in which the money would be forthcoming.''
* He is currently plugging a ''merit schools'' program that would provide cash awards to the entire staff of schools that meet specified performance criteria. ''I used to shy away from bribery,'' he said, ''but I've come to the conclusion that it has a place.''
Mr. Shanker's American Federation of Teachers, with only 700,000 members, is small compared with its rival, the two-million-strong National Education Association. Yet over the years David has consistently outwitted Goliath. In the 1960's, A.F.T. locals forced N.E.A., which saw itself as a ''professional'' organization, into becoming a true trade union whose affiliates negotiate contracts and call strikes. Then, Mr. Shanker proceeded to stake out the high road and become the public symbol of teacher professionalism.
It is 2 P.M. in the Toronto airport on a recent Thursday, and Albert Shanker is negotiating a folding luggage rack, what he calls his ''heavy industrial-type schlepper,'' down a flight of stairs. On it are strapped two suitcases, the heaviest stuffed with letters, articles, periodicals and other materials to feed his reading habit.
Mr. Shanker does not move gracefully. His myopic eyes peer at the world through large glasses. He has a lanky body with limbs so long that signals from the brain don't always seem to arrive at his hands and feet at the right time. But he's used to it. ''At the age of 12 I was 6 foot 3 and 110 pounds,'' he said. ''I was Jewish and living in a Irish Catholic neighborhood of Queens, so everybody took turns beating up the biggest kid.'' Even under attack, mind and body seemed to move in disparate directions. ''I'd ask myself why are they beating me up, calling me a Christ-killer,'' he said. ''I'd try to put myself in their place.'' He failed to become an Eagle Scout because he could not pass the swimming test.
Mr. Shanker's mission in Toronto is to speak to Ontario teachers union leaders. It will be one of 300 or so public appearances that he makes every year, not only as a union executive but as vice president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and through his service to organizations like Freedom House and the International Rescue Committee. His union salary is approximately $140,000.
He resides in Mamaroneck, N.Y., with Eadie, his wife for 29 years. (His four children, one by a previous marriage that ended in divorce, are grown.) But he lives out of his schlepper, touching down twice a week at his Washington office. He has 700,000 frequent-flyer miles accrued on his Eastern and Continental card, but won't cash them in on free flights; the airlines are run by Frank Lorenzo, who has gained an anti-union reputation.
Mr. Shanker attributes his ability to maintain a killer pace to snap catnapping. ''If I have an hour-and-a-half before a meeting, I can get an hour of deep sleep,'' he said. And he does not let administrative duties bog him down. His union has a staff of 200, all but 40 of them in Washington, and an annual budget exceeding $50 million.
But Mr. Shanker insists: ''I don't have to know everything that is going on, and I don't. The key is to pick outstanding people who are committed to the cause and who like each other.''
Mr. Shanker's day in Toronto started in East Lansing, Mich., where he was guest at a breakfast meeting of school officials prior to a speech to a citizens group concerned with taxes. Sitting at the breakfast table, his body concave, his elbows on the table, hands clasped, he was physically, as well as intellectually, focused on his idea of the moment.
This fascination with ideas goes back to his childhood in the Depression. Morris Shanker, his father, delivered newspapers, and he read six or eight of them every day. ''I've been a periodical junkie for as long as I can remember,'' he said. ''As a kid I'd walk over the Queensboro Bridge to the newsstands outside the library on 42d Street. I discovered The Partisan Review when I was 15. My subscription to Commentary goes back to 1948.''
In 1970, he would begin his own weekly column, not in periodicals but in The New York Times, where it still runs as an advertisement. ''It was a way of dispelling my image as a power-hungry madman and letting people know that we had ideas about education,'' he said.
Mr. Shanker, who has one sister, graduated from Stuyvesant High School, ranking 125 out of a class or 625. He applied to Harvard and was rejected. ''It was,'' he said, ''a great disappointment.'' The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champagne, where he had an aunt, became the school of choice. Then on to Columbia University to earn a doctorate in philosophy. In 1952, running out of ''patience and money,'' he took a year out to teach - supposedly on a temporary basis.
He liked teaching advanced classes but found the others taxing. ''I absolutely hated bing a policeman and a psychiatrist and a jailer with kids,'' he explained. He often marvels at how some teachers can spend lifetimes locked inside rooms with 6-year-olds, devoid of adult contact. What kept him in the profession was the opportunity to build the New York teachers union, which elected him president in 1964.
Both of Mr. Shanker's parents were emigrants from Czarist Russia; politics was part of the air they breathed. Mamie, his mother, a sewing-machine operator, was an ardent member of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers but remained haunted by her past.
''She never got over the injustices of the old system,'' he recalled. ''Whenever politics came up around the dinner table, she would go open the door and look out to be sure no one was listening.''
As a boy, Mr. Shanker would go to Columbus Circle to hear people debating. ''If I saw someone wearing a Willkie or an America First button, I'd go up and debate them,'' he said.
His heroes were people who fought injustice - Clarence Darrow, the lawyer, and eventually figures like Bayard Rustin, the civil rights leader, and Sidney Hook, the philosopher. ''I started reading Hook when I was 15,'' Mr. Shanker said. ''He got involved, sometimes at considerable personal cost, in virtually every major human-rights issue of his time. I very much admired the life that he lived.''
He also admires the finer things in life, especially when they can be obtained at bargain prices. He collects wine and has a recently built cellar with 800 bottles; his eyes light up when he talks his purchases. ''In the 1970's I got a dozen cases of Barolo Riserva for $2.65 a bottle,'' he said. ''Now they're worth $25.''
Mr. Shanker is a sophisticated cook, specializing in Moroccan food, pastries and exotic breads; his cookbook collection numbers in the hundreds. He also collects African art. And he is a hi-fi aficianado, having started building sets from kits as a boy.
Today, he is constantly selling his stereo equipment so that he can buy the latest items on the market. ''Just about everyone in my office has at least some piece that I sold them or heard someone else was selling,'' he said.
Mr. Shanker checks into the car-rental counter and unloads his schlepper into the trunk of a Cadillac with a cellular phone and legroom. He has four hours to kill before his speech, so he does what he normally does in such situations - heads for a second-hand record store. ''I have found bookstores and record stores in cities all over the country,'' he said.
After an hour or so, he emerges with three records, including one of Lorin Maazel conducting the Cleveland Orchestra in Prokofiev's Fifth Symphony. ''Maazel is a good conductor, especially on Prokofiev,'' he said. ''His earlier one on 'Romeo and Juliet' is one of the great performances of all time.''
Mr. Shanker normally shies away from dinner speeches. ''People are tired,'' he said. ''It's not the time to get a message across, and I'm not pulling the schlepper around to entertain.'' This is an exception, though, and it turns out be vintage Shanker. He speaks from cryptic notes scribbled on a folded piece of paper, hands held next to his body, swaying back and forth with his collar rolling up on the back of his neck.
He can be funny. One of his favorite devices is to take an idea he opposes and stretch it to its logical conclusion. When Boston University was negotiating to take over the running of the school system in nearby Chelsea, for example, he suggested that Yale University be brought in to balance the Federal deficit.
That evening he started off his talk with anecdotes on the low quality of American schooling, including one of his favorite statistics: according to literacy studies by the National Assessment of Educational Progress, less than 5 percent of American high school graduates would meet the entrance standards of European universities. ''We're sending 55 percent of our high school graduates on to college, and 90 percent of these couldn't get into college elsewhere.''
He discusses the impending teacher shortage and points out that, in contrast to Canada and other developed countries, teachers tend to rank at the bottom of their college classes academically, not at the top. With a major teacher shortage looming in the 1990's, he says, ''We're going to be digging even deeper and the teachers we hire are going to be dumber.''
To Mr. Shanker the solution lies in a new concept of teacher professionalism, one that would attract a greater number of able people into the field and justify the higher salaries that this would require. ''In the past when teachers used the word professionalism they meant paying them more and leaving them alone,'' he said. ''Now we're talking about assembling a knowledge base, functioning in the interests of students and being accountable for student performance.''
Parents should have a choice on which public schools their children attend, he said, and schools should be managed by teams in which teachers play a role.
Not everyone likes Mr. Shanker's bottom-up approach to school reform. He has had a running battle with John R. Silber, the president of Boston University, over the Chelsea takeover. Mr. Shanker has accused the university of needlessly suspending rules regarding financial reporting and open meetings. But Peter R. Greer, the dean of Boston University's school of education, charges that Mr. Shanker opposes any reform that does not give teachers more power.. ''We're doing top-down reform, so he doesn't like it,'' Mr. Greer said.
In an exchange in the current issue of Commentary, Chester E. Finn Jr., an assistant secretary of education during President Ronald Reagan's second term, calls Mr. Shanker ''one of the authentically insightful and imaginative figures in American education'' but argues that his faith in school reform ''has about it an air of the naive and the romantic.''
He also states that while Mr. Shanker and some of his leading locals are prominently involved in the struggle for school reform, ''other AFT locals are simultaneously going on strike, battling reforms and defending the status quo as if everything were hunky-dory.''
At 5:30 the morning after his appearance in Toronto, Al Shanker is dragging his schlepper through the Holiday Inn lobby. It is a short drive to the airport and customs, where he realizes that he has left his records in the car. That's all right, though; even in Canada, Albert Shanker is KNOWN. ''I trust you based on your reputation,'' the custom official says, waving Mr. Shanker back to his car and volunteering to look after the luggage.
Sometimes, Mr. Shanker tells a companion, customs agents will even motion him to the front of the line. ''A lot of them are moonlighting teachers,'' he said. ''They never go through my bags, but they are apt to ask for a 15-minute update on pending negotiations.''
It is tempting to think that there are several Al Shankers. Shanker the old-line socialist. Shanker the union leader, Shanker the educator. To him, though, they are all of a piece.
''In the 30's unions kept people from being exploited,'' he said. ''Economic conditions are much better now, largely because of the success of the labor movement. But now you have the new problems of the underclass. What we tried to do in the past by economic means can now be done by education. It's really the same thing.''
''I want to create more effective and more humane schools, and to do that you need a new kind of union and new approaches to bargaining. You don't sell a union abstractly. You sell it by building an organization that people want.
In other words, you schlep.
 
ALBERT SHANKER AT A GLANCE
 
BORN: Sept. 14, 1928, N.Y., N.Y.
 
PARENTS: Morris and Mamie; one sister
 
FAMILY: married Edith Gerber 1960; four children, one from a previous marriage
 
EDUCATION: Stuyvesant High School, N.Y.C., B.A., University of Illinois, Urbana-Champagne; philosphy postgraduate, Columbia University (left A.B.D., all but dissesrtation)
 
TEACHING?UNION CAREER: temporary teacher in New York City elementary schools, junior high schools 1952-59; becomes full-time union organizer, 1959; president of the United Federation of Teachers, 1964-85; led a series of illegal teacher strikes, 1967; newspaper column starts as a paid avertisement, 1969-70; president of the American Federation of Teachers, 1974- ; executive vice president of New York State United Teachers, 1972-78; vice president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., a member of the organization's executive committee and head of its international affairs committee.
 
MEMBERSHIPS: Charter member, Congress of Racial Equality, 1960's; International Rescue Committee, 1973- ; education task forces, Committee on Economic Development, 1983- ; task force on teaching as a profession, Carnegie Forum on Education and the Economy, 1985- ; National Board of Professional Teaching Standards, 1986- ; President Bush's Educational Policy Advisory Committee.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Albert Shanker (The New York Times/Sara Krulwich)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KOPPERS CO INC (72%); SKY CHEFS INC (69%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (56%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (AFT)

SUBJECT: TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION TEACHER UNIONS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); MERIT PAY (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (83%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); CHILDREN (77%); STRIKES (77%); FAMILY (73%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (72%); SCHOOL PRIVATIZATION (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (63%); CHEMICALS (56%); CHEMICALS MFG (56%); 

PERSON: SHANKER, ALBERT; FISKE, EDWARD B; SHANKER, ALBERT (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) WOODY ALLEN (57%); 



136 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 41, Column 1; Education Life

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: THE NOVEMBER REPORT;
Making College Ends Meet: Terms of Endearment
A Guide to Useful Tuition Tools

 BODY:
THERE'S a wealth of investments available for financing college, and the choice doesn't end with selecting an investment.
You can buy in your own name or in a custodial account for your child. There are tax advantages to custodial accounts: the first $500 earned is tax-free, and earnings between $500 and $1,000 are taxed at the child's marginal rate (15 percent). Any earnings above $1,000 are taxed at the parent's marginal rate until the child turns 14. But there are drawbacks, too: You can't take back the money - your child could decide to blow it on a Porsche instead of going to college. Also, the greater the child's assets, the less financial aid he or she is eligible for. The same amount invested in your name would have much less impact on aid eligibility. 
U.S. Savings Bonds Series EE: Backed by full faith and credit of the U.S. Government. Interest is exempt from state and local taxes; Federal income tax is deferred until the bonds are redeemed. For bonds issued after Jan. 1, 1990, interest escapes some or all Federal tax too, for qualified buyers over age 24: married couples filing jointly with income below $90,000 and single filers with income below $55,000 who use the proceeds to pay for their children's or their own tuition bills. Married couples filing separately don't qualify for the tax break. Denominations range from $50 to $10,000. Cost is half the face value; maturity is 12 years from purchase date, but the bond may reach its face value earlier, depending on the yield variability. The yield, which has been hovering around 8 percent, is adjusted every six months and guaranteed not to fall below 6 percent if bonds are held at least five years. Available at banks and credit unions. No sales or redemption charges.
Zero-coupon Treasury bonds: Instead of periodic interest, zeroes pay one fixed sum at maturity. For example, you could pay $269.60 for a bond that pays $1,000 in 2005 - an effective yield to maturity of 8.39 percent. You can match bond maturity to college years. Although not paid until maturity, interest is taxable every year. Bonds are federally taxable, but you pay no state or local tax. They fluctuate more in value than conventional bonds as interest rates change, so you could lose money if you must sell before maturity. Sold in $1,000 units by stockbrokers. The yield encompasses the sales commission.
Zero-Coupon Municipal Bonds: Also pay one fixed sum at maturity, and are sold in $5,000 units. Interest exempt from Federal tax, and for residents of the state issuing the bond, exempt from state and local taxes. But there's a limited supply of these bonds, and they're often callable - the issuer can redeem them before maturity, returning your investment plus a ''call premium,'' but ending the stream of interest you counted on.
''Baccalaureate'' bonds: These are zero-coupon municipal bonds sold by state agencies and designed for college savers. Begun by the state of Illinois, they have spread to Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Iowa, Missouri, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oregon, Rhode Island, Virginia and Washington. Bonds are available nationwide, and aren't subject to early redemption. Baccalaureate bonds are sold in $1,000 units. In a recent Oregon issue, a six-year bond cost $695 and a 19-year bond cost $282.50 - effective yields to maturity of 6.40 percent and 6.85 percent respectively. (For a taxpayer in the 28 percent bracket, taxable equivalents would be 8.9 percent and 9.5 percent.) Sold by brokers, sales commission is reflected in yield.
College prepayment plans: Florida, Michigan and Wyoming let you prepay the cost of tuition at any state college or university, and five other states have passed legislation for similar plans. The difference between your original investment and its final value is likely to be federally taxable. If the studentwants to go out of state or doesn't go to college at all, you could lose a substantial part of your investment. Cost varies. Michigan, which has processed more than 55,000 applications in first two years of its program, last month charged $1,941 to prepay a newborn's freshman year of college; low-interest loans are available for financing.
CollegeSure Certificates of Deposit: CD's guarantee at maturity to cover college costs, but don't lock you into a college, and there's no penalty if you don't go. Principal and interest are F.D.I.C.-insured up to $100,000. CollegeSure CDs' interest rate floats 1.5 percentage points below an index based on yearly cost increases at 500 private colleges. For 1989-90, the CD's will pay between 7.11 percent and 7.61 percent. Interest is taxable yearly. Early-withdrawal penalties are steep: 10 percent of principal during the first three years, and 5 percent after that. Total current deposit necessary to cover average four-year cost at college in 2004 (15 years): $62,947. Minimum initial deposit $1,000, additional deposits in $250 increments. Sold by College Savings Bank, Princeton, N.J.
Life insurance: Some types of life insurance combine insurance with a tax-deferred account that can be invested in a variety of funds, depending on the policy. After you've paid seven annual premiums, you can borrow from accumulated cash value at nominal interest rates and without tax penalty. You don't have to repay the loan, but some policies reduce your death benefit by the amount of the loan if not repaid. Your policy's investment value is reduced by the cost of the life insurance itself and by sales commissions. Cash value grows slowly in the early years. Policies typically guarantee only that the investment-account earnings won't fall below 4 percent. Costs and effective returns vary dramatically from company tocompany. A $200,000 universal life policy from San Antonio-based USAA Financial Services, a highly rated insurer, would cost a 35-year-old male nonsmoker $3,000 a year. After 15 years, assuming an 8 percent annual interest, the policy's cash value would be $75,144. The loan would not reduce death benefit.
Stock mutual funds: Stocks have outperformed bonds historically. In 10 years ended Sept. 30, for example, stock funds grew 15.98 percent on a compound basis, versus 10.71 percent for bond funds, according to Lipper Analytical Services. Minimum initial investment usually is between $1,000 and $2,500. Sales commissions, or loads, range from nothing up to 8.5 percent of your initial investment.
Borrowing: The vehicle of choice today is the home-equity loan, one of the few loans on which interest is still fully deductible on amounts up to $100,000. Fees for loans can range from $500 to $800. The disadvantage: Your house is collateral for the loan. You can usually borrow up to 80 percent of your equity, either in a lump sum for a fixed rate and length of time, or as a line of credit for a variable rate, paying for what you use. Most lenders set a $5,000 minimum credit-line limit and $100,000 maximum limit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Glossary; List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; FINANCES, PERSONAL US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); BOND ISSUES (73%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); MARRIAGE (70%); SALES COMPENSATION (70%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); CREDIT UNIONS (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); 



137 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 54, Column 3; Education Life

LENGTH: 2278 words

HEADLINE: THE NOVEMBER REPORT;
Education In Congress
Roundup of Bills from a Full Agenda

 BODY:
While President Bush and the nation's governors have gone public with their concern about upgrading American schools, Congress has been quietly -- and in some instances not so quietly -- churning away at education-related legislation. Herewith, highlights of the lawmakers' calendar . . . 

	Community Collaborative for Childhood	 		Development Act of 1989 (S.123)	 	Sponsor: Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.
Purpose: Would make preschool programs more widely available to prekindergarten children, in an expansion of existing Head Start programs. Aimed at poor children, it would give Federal matching funds to states that provide comprehensive preschool programs for 4-year-olds. Two-thirds of the funds and half of any new openings created in the program must be used for children whose families earn less than 115 percent of the poverty level, who receive benefits free of charge. Those whose parents earn more may participate on a sliding-fee scale.
The Community Services Block Grant uses the following Department of Health and Human Services statistics to show what the poverty lines are for families: for a family of one, the figure is $5,980; for a family of two, $8,020; for a family of three, $10,060; and for a family of four, $12,100.
Participating states could use Federal money to finance public school preschools, Head Start or other child development programs, but must maintain pupil-teacher ratio of 10 to 1 and operate full days, year round. Proposes allocating $4 billion over next five years.
Status: Reported out of Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee; full Senate likely to consider this year.

	Educational Excellence Act (H.R. 1675)	 	Sponsor: Representative William F. Goodling, Republican of Pennsylvania.
Purpose: The House's version of President Bush's proposed legislation in the Senate, S.695. Offers similar proposals at cost of $421.6 million for fiscal year 1990.
Status: House Education and Labor Committee has held one hearing; no more are scheduled for this year.

	Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act (H.R.7)	 	Sponsor: Augustus F. Hawkins, Democrat of California.
Purpose: To insure that vocational education keeps pace with technological change, proposes changes in job-skills training. Recommendations include:
* School districts should emphasize basic academic skills, such as reading, writing and arithmetic.
* Vocational education programs should be called ''applied technology education'' to signify that courses are keeping pace with new technology.
* Instead of earmarking money for different categories of students, such as the poor, women, minorities and the handicapped, states would use a formula that channels money to the poorest districts.
* During fiscal year 1990, money appropriated for vocational programs would rise to $1.4 billion, an increase of $500 million from fiscal 1989.
Status: House passed on May 9, 402 to 3. Under consideration by Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources.

	Act for Better Child Care Services (S.5)	 	Sponsor: Senator Christopher Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut.
Purpose: Would provide grant program for $1.75 billion in fiscal year 1990 to states that expand affordable child care programs. Has tax credit package to help low-income parents defray costs of child care and health insurance for children.
States would allocate 70 percent of their grants to low-income parents to help them pay for child care. Eligible families include those with children up to age 13 and incomes not exceeding the median income in each state. Remaining money would go to the programs themselves to upgrade quality and increase availability of child care. Three years after the act becomes law, regulations and standards to be set by states.
Tax-credit portion of bill would expand existing earned income tax credit beginning in 1991 to increase money for families with children under age 4: a maximum of $500 for families with one child under age 4 and $750 for families with more than one child under 4.
Health insurance credit to be phased in over four years beginning in 1991. This credit, to help defray health insurance costs for children as old as 19, eventually would provide up to $500 a year. Eligible families include those where one or both parents work and whose combined incomes do not exceed $18,000 a year, with maximum benefit going to those with combined annual incomes less than $12,000.
Increases Head Start's authorization ceiling by $250 million for fiscal year 1990.
Status: Senate approved on June 23. A House-Senate conference committee must now iron out differences before sending it to President Bush.

	Student Loan Default Reduction Act of 1989 (S.1778)	 	Sponsor: Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa.
Purpose: Designed to lower the number of student loan defaults.
Schools with default rates of over 25 percent would enter into a four-year default reduction plan. If after four years the school has not reduced its default rate sufficiently or the rate is over 50 percent, Education Secretary could limit, suspend or end the school's eligibility to participate in student aid programs.
The school would have the authority to refuse to certify a student's eligibility for a loan if it determines he doesn't demonstrate financial need.
A national student loan data system would be created to keep track of amounts loaned to students and of those who have defaulted. New loans would not be made to defaulters or to students who have exceeded borrowing limits.
Status: Action unlikely before next year.

	The Community Education Employment	 		Centers Act of 1989 (S.1477)	 	Sponsor: Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey.
Purpose: Would give students the opportunity to attend school over summer months. In addition to classes, they would broaden experience by going on field trips in a camp-like atmosphere. Centers, situated in the schools and designed for inner-city students, would provide two meals a day, transportation to and from school, part-time jobs, a family counseling service and an on-site job service office.
Students in the centers would take standard core-curriculum courses of high schools, along with strong vocational-education curriculum, and would be offered job training and career-counseling services. School buildings would be open from 6:30 or 7 A.M. to about 7 P.M. to give students a place to study and participate in extracurricular activities.
Limits class size to 15 students, offers teachers extra pay and sets cap of 15 centers nationwide to be established with grants over five-year period. Authorizes $40 million in annual vocational financing to establish and test high schools in low-income areas around the country.
Status: Hearings pending before Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee; may not come to a vote until sometime next year.

	Educational Excellence Act of 1989 (S.695)	 	Sponsor: Senator Nancy Kassebaum, Republican of Kansas.
Purpose: Represents President Bush's first major legislative initiative in education. Creates national reward program for Chapter 1 schools, which receive Federal assistance and provide compensatory education to children from poor families. Cash awards given to public and private elementary and secondary schools that create safe and drug-free environments, reduce dropout rates and make substantial progress in raising student educational achievement. Authorizes $200 million in expenditures during 1991.
Calls for additional money for antidrug education programs. Provides college scholarships for outstanding high school science students, endowment grants to historically black colleges and $50 million to supplement program for magnet schools which attract students with innovative curriculums. Also calls for developing and establishing alternative certification for those who want to teach but don't have formal teacher training.
Other provisions include more money to program offering six-week course of instruction on the Constitution and Bill of Rights at elementary, middle and high school levels; extension of dropout prevention measure, and creation of grant program for colleges to teach middle-school teachers about adolescents.
Bill attempts to decrease number of student loan defaults. Authorizes total expenditure of $414 million for fiscal year 1991.
Status: Passed by Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee with unanimous consent. Scheduled for Senate vote during this session.

	 Head Start Supplemental Authorization Act of 1989	 		(H.R.1300)	 	Sponsor: Representative Dale Kildee, Democrat of Michigan.
Purpose: Would increase 1990 authorization for Head Start by $147 million to $1.552 billion. Head Start provides comprehensive services to meet educational, social, nutritional and health needs of preschoolers from low-income families.
Status: House of Representatives approved bill by voice vote in March; Senate approved in October. President signed into law Oct. 23.

	The Critical Languages and Area Studies Program (S.1540)	 	Sponsor: Senator James Jeffords, Republican of Vermont.
Purpose: To improve students' knowledge of foreign languages. Would provide grants to establish training and development programs in key language and area studies. Authorizes $15 million for each of the next three fiscal years.
Status: Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee has been holding hearings; may not come to a vote until sometime next year.

	Serve-America: The Service to	 		America Act of 1989 (S.650)	 	Sponsor: Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.
Purpose: Provides $100 million for local agencies, colleges and public schools to create voluntary youth service opportunities for students.
Status: Incorporated into S.1430 The National & Community Service Act of 1989.

	Child Development and Education Act of 1989 (H.R.3)	 	Sponsor: Representative Augustus F. Hawkins, Democrat of California.
Purpose: Would expand Head Start services and activities, including extension of existing programs to full-day, year-round care, for benefit of working parents. Local education agencies required to use Federal funds to expand or establish school-based child care or early childhood development programs offering services to children not in Head Start, making available at no cost, for example, before- and after-school child care to parents whose incomes are below poverty level.
Would also establish day-care programs for children whose parents work or who attend high school or job training programs. Provides tax credits of up to $2,200 for families earning under $22,400, where at least one parent works. Also calls for ban on religious instruction at child-care centers in churches and synagogues receiving Federal aid. Expected to cost $22.7 billion over next five years.
Status: Approved as part of House budget-reconciliation bill. Now in Senate, where House-Senate conference committee is expected to work out differences.

	Excellence in Teaching Act (S.1675)	 	Sponsor: Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.
Purpose: Aimed at strengthening the teaching profession by reviving the Teacher Corps, which was phased out under President Reagan in 1981. Participants would receive up to $8,000 a year (for two years) in college scholarship aid if they agree to teach for four years in inner cities or in math or science, or teach for five years in areas with shortage of teachers. Also establishes agencies to coordinate recruitment, especially of minorities, in-service training and testing of new teaching techniques.
Authorizes expenditure of $300 million in 1990.
Tries to increase number of minority teachers by identifying high school students interested in teaching, strengthening teacher education at historically black institutions and colleges with high minority enrollment, and making available scholarships and support services to minorities with teaching aspirations.
Would raise the number of early childhood education teachers, establish teacher training programs to establish or upgrade training in math and science, and prepare teachers to help handicapped children participate in mainstream classes.
Status: Hearings in progress; Senate may consider sometime during next year.

	National Teacher Act of 1989 (S.1676)	 	Sponsor: Senator Claiborne Pell, Democrat of Rhode Island.
Purpose: Establishes loan forgiveness program to encourage graduating college students to become teachers. Federal student loans obtained in the junior and/or senior years of teaching at a Chapter 1 school -one that receives Federal assistance and provides compensatory education to children from economically disadvantaged families - would be forgiven over five-year period of teaching.
Also provides grants to local education agencies to examine how reducing class size may lead to improved instruction; establishes programs in teacher preparation, such as senior teachers becoming mentors for beginning teachers; offers grants to establish programs to attract into teaching careers minority candidates already in school support positions or in occupations other than teaching; awards grants in 10 subjects to a national teacher academy.
Estimated cost is $400 million per year from fiscal year 1990 through 1994, plus whatever the cost for those who ask for loan forgiveness.
Status: Hearings in progress; may be considered sometime during next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LAW AND LEGISLATION EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MATCHING GIFTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STUDENT TEACHER RATIO (77%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (58%); 



138 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 4A; Page 70, Column 1; Education Life

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: End Paper: Letters from China;
They Misjudged The Dragon

BYLINE: By Charles R. Reich; Charles R. Reich recently retired as a housemaster at Greenwich High School, Greenwich, Conn.

 BODY:
MOST OF MY 240 graduate and undergraduate students at the Beijing Institute of Chemical Technology were witty, wise, sweet and highly intelligent - sometimes brilliant. They were patriotic, with a deep-rooted love of their homeland, its ways and its people.
They also seemed to love America - and Richard Nixon, about whom they said with simple logic: ''He was a great man because he made our countries friends.''
''The heart of a teacher and the heart of a student are always linked to each other,'' one student wrote to me recently. He and others - Chinese university students, the men and women of Tiananmen Square of June 1989 - write to me still, their professor of English from September 1987 to July 1988 in the Chinese Government's ''foreign expert'' program. 
As a teacher, I had few resources to carry forth a foreign-language program, having quickly discovered that these university students could speak little English despite years of studying it at middle, secondary and undergraduate levels.
Chinese education is archaic, relying mainly upon rote. Locked in my students' brains were a warehouse of English vocabulary and a wellspring of English grammar that had never been opened for regenerative speech.
I realized that we had to spend the year talking to each other and thinking in English. Consequently, our two-hour classes took on a simple format: They would tell me about China, and I would tell them about America.
They puzzled over America, the commonplace and the conceptual. I would describe an American scene, say a supermarket, and then ask them to enter it, walking down imaginary aisles to imaginary checkout counters. One student inevitably asked, ''But why would I need so much food?''
Helping my students overcome their shyness was a constant struggle. Initially charmed by their modesty, I resigned myself to their tradition of self-effacement when trying to get them to form ''English corners,'' groups of eight students that would meet after class on campus once a week to practice English. ''Teacher Charles,'' one student explained, ''you must understand why we do not have English corners as you wish. No one wants to show off.''
They loved American music, especially tapes of Willy Nelson and folk rock, like Paul Simon's ''Graceland.'' They flocked to American films. The movie ''Breakdancing'' was big in Beijing that year and, thinking that all Americans could do breakdancing, they asked me to perform. I deferred to a student who, having seen the film many times, had perfected the slithering movements.
They added more and more Western touches to their clothing, which was already heavily denimed - loud shirts for the men, rather than the prosaic white ones, and sundresses or miniskirts for the young women, which must have made hearts jump even among the old men in the Politburo.
And they loved to talk. But because each of my classes was attended by an official ''class monitor,'' discussion of political topics was reserved mainly for office hours, which my students had not previously encountered. Though the office that was provided for me had little light and no heat, it had two couches, several chairs, a daily Thermos of boiled water for tea - and scores of students stopping by, eager for a word or two.
It was during these times that I, usually a nonpolitical person, inadvertently became a symbol and spokesman for democracy, a misty concept firing the students' imaginations.
To them, it was primarily a way of gaining a few choices in their lives. They wanted something to say about where they would be assigned to work, for example, complaining that too frequently students are sent to remote areas and jobs unrelated to their training, with nothing to do. One confessed: ''I fear that I will spend the rest of my life in Xinjiang Province only drinking tea and reading newspapers.''
They wanted choices, too, about basic conditions, such as where they could live and when they could marry; they had to reach prescribed ages - 23 for men and 20 for women - for government permission. Marriage was also prohibited while they were students, although some had been married before starting their programs.
They wanted to be free of corruption and profiteering of the kind I discovered when one student promised to invite me to the tiny apartment that he and his wife were scheduled to get from her work unit. With sadness and quiet anger, he later informed me that they were disgraced, being unable to fulfill their invitation: They could not afford the payoff for the apartment demanded by the Communist Party official in the work unit.
They wanted to be free to do as they wished in their own homes. That they weren't became clear when another student invited me home, saying that his family had decided it was time for Chinese people to be allowed to have foreign guests. When the head of his mother's work unit learned of the plans, however, the family was warned that the visit would bring heavy penalties, like the loss of both apartment and jobs.
My students desperately wanted more than their meager portion of books, ill-stocked libraries and ill-equipped laboratories; more than a small dormitory space where they had to live eight to a room and were permitted only one shower a week; more than their ration of food -rice dishes mainly, with occasional shreds of pork. (During the Tiananmen Square hunger strikes, I wondered how such undernourished men and women could survive.) Never did their limited vision of democracy call for changing China's form of government, and though they showed no love for the Communist Party, they expressed no desire to replace it.
The reforms they wanted seemed to them a natural progression within the many economic reforms already in motion. ''It is a good time to be in China,'' one student told me. When I asked if a Cultural Revolution could happen again, they said that was not possible. ''Chairman Mao is gone,'' they chided, ''and the party is no longer our parents telling us what to do.''
They misjudged the dragon.
''The younger generation has completely lost hope with our regime,'' says a letter delivered just a few weeks ago. ''Almost every one of my friends intends to go abroad through different channels. Please don't think we are not patriots. On the contrary, we hope to save our homeland. If we remain here, no one knows what will happen to us. So if you are willing to and capable, help me please!''

GRAPHIC: Drawing with excerpts from Chinese students' letters

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); WOMEN (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); MOVIE FILMING (64%); FILM (63%); 

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (56%); 



139 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 5; Page 15, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2226 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela's Andean Hideaway

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH LLORENTE; ELIZABETH LLORENTE is a reporter with The Record, of Hackensack, N.J.

 BODY:
ALL year long, Caracas and Margarita Island swell with tourists from Latin America, Europe, the United States and Canada. But Venezuelans who want to get away from it all travel to the country's most treasured hideaway - the Andean city of Merida.
Flying into Merida is a little like stumbling upon a kind of Shangri-La. The three-mile-long city remains elusive until almost the last few minutes before landing, when the plane passes between two mountains and suddenly, like an urban canyon, there it lies.
The capital of the mountainous state of Merida, in the country's westernmost region, the city is on a slightly sloping plateau over 5,000 feet above sea level. It is circled by four rivers and small lakes that teem with trout. The city also has dozens of small parks and plazas. At its center, squat white stucco structures with red-tiled roofs, a legacy of Spanish colonial architecture, predominate; on the outskirts modern glass-facade buildings have begun to spring up. 
To many Venezuelans, however, it is the lure of the towering mountain chain hugging the city and the traditional Andean life that is preserved in its villages that brings them to Merida. The highest peaks soar to over 16,000 feet, and artists and writers find inspiration in the landscape, often called the Swiss Alps of the Western Hemisphere by Venezuelans who have visited Europe.
Venezuelans retreat to Merida to reflect. And while the city has seen an increasing number of foreign visitors, mostly from Canada and the Caribbean, the tourism industry in Merida is largely domestic.
For Venezuela, struggling with inflation and still rhapsodizing about its erstwhile oil-rich days, has done surprisingly little to attract foreign tourism. Its currency, the bolivar, has plummeted in value since 1983 and now stands at 38 to the dollar. As a result, a vacation in Venezuela, particularly in the Andes, may be one of the best bargain vacations for the American traveler, who has 10 times more buying power there than only six years ago. Two people can fly round-trip from New York to Merida, for instance, and pay for accommodations, three daily meals and sightseeing for 10 days for less than $1,600. Daytime temperatures hover around 70 to 80 degrees, falling into the 50's at night. Temperatures in the mountains, of course, fall far lower, often below freezing point.
After 1810, when the University of the Andes was founded there, the city of Merida began to assume the trappings of a metropolis. What had been largely a peripheral community in the strongly rural Merida region evolved into a magnet for Venezuela's intellectuals as well as its most affluent college-bound students, many of whom came from Caracas, 300 miles to the southwest.
Today, with some 22,000 students in a total population of about 125,000, plus hundreds of thousands of visitors a year from Venezuela's larger cities, Merida has something of a European feel. And yet there is none of the restlessness and clamor to be found in most cities. With tree-covered mountains, snow-capped summits and four rivers encircling it, Merida has a sense of serenity. Indeed, every day from noon to 2 P.M. banks, stores and post offices close for siesta.
In an increasingly fast-paced country like Venezuela, the down-home, almost vulnerable mien of the Andeans has made them prey to parody. Venezuelans from other parts of the country seem to relish telling jokes about the docile Meridenos. But their teasing is generally taken in stride.
From the moment we arrived from Caracas at the Alberto Carnevale Airport, we were urged to ride the teleferico, the cable car that climbs in four stages to Pico Espajo. The car ascends past the clouds and tundra line at a 30-degree angle. The earliest car usually leaves Calle 25 in the city's Barinitas section at 7 A.M. from every day except Monday and the last leaves at noon, just before the dense, cold fog begins its descent upon the mountains, bringing temperatures well below freezing. The last car down leaves at 2 P.M.
For about $3 a person, the ride offers an uninterrupted view of the entire valley as well as part of the Chama River, several lakes, vast moors and many of the hamlets and villages that dot the mountains. There is a quota of 200 people an hour on the cable car, and as there are often long lines tickets should be bought a day in advance.
The cable car stops at four stations and at each stop villagers are on hand to serve as voluntary sources of information on such things as accommodations and restaurants (a number speak or understand at least rudimentary English, which is the case with many other Venezuelans). There are also cafes at each stop and the local people are always ready to provide first aid for those stricken by altitude sickness, known in Merida as el mal del paramo. Certified medical technicians are at the last stop, Pico Espejo, to treat anyone who is overcome.
BY the time we reached Aguada, the second station (the ride takes 15 minutes between stations, with a 10-minute stop at each), light-headedness had set in and we were promptly whisked off by a villager to a cafe, where waiters brought us hot tea and homemade vegetable soup. They hovered over us until we seemed better. Most of the Meridenos we encountered were hospitable and affectionate people who seemed to take a proprietary interest in helping visitors. While we ate our soup, villagers, accustomed to dizzy tourists, came over to our table with knowing smiles and for about an hour asked questions about the United States, regaled us with tales about their village and offered to put us up free of charge.
In varying degrees the rapid drop in temperature and the thinning air combine to cause altitude sickness in about half the visitors who climb the mountain. Although escaping even minor dizziness is virtually impossible for people unaccustomed to high altitudes, certain precautions will lessen the discomfort. It is best, for example, to sit and relax at each station, for if the dizziness is ignored it can progress to severe headaches and nausea. Anyone with a medical problem, such as high blood pressure or heart disease, should consult a physician.
In our case the dizziness passed, as it does for most people, and we continued to the third station, called Loma Redonda, at 11,300 feet.
This was where we began the most interesting part of our ascent: a visit to Los Nevados, a quintessential Merida village settled by Indians about 400 years ago that has a population of 2,000 and offers probably the best views of the Andes. The journey from Loma Redonda to this agricultural village offers some of most scenic vistas in the Venezuelan Andes and takes about six hours to traverse. But the only way to get there is by walkng or riding a mule. The narrow, rocky trails and hairpin turns along the 2,000-foot descent defy all other modes of transportation.
Remarkably, the passage of time passed virtually unnoticed since for most of the trip our guide, who was one of several waiting at the station, told one historic and folkloric tale after another about each village or site we passed. The guide's fee was only $2.
The villagers of Los Nevados tend fields of potatoes, garlic, wheat and beans. They take their harvest to Loma Redonda by mule, and to Merida by way of the cable car. Visitors can stay overnight in villagers' cabins for as little as $5 for bed and breakfast. Many villagers provide all three meals for that price, and may insist on treating you like a family member, giving you full use of their homes.
Los Nevados itself is more a rest stop than a tourist attraction. Other than a bell tower built in 1915 and the Plaza Bolivar, there are not many other sites or landmarks to visit.
For the hardy traveler there is the last station, Pico Espejo, which has yearlong light snow and offers the closest view of the glacier on Pico Bolivar, which is 16,430 feet high. The temperatures there are freezing, and visitors should dress as warmly as they would in New York in January.
We spent about three days just walking around the city of Merida, visiting several of its many parks and open craft kiosks. One of our favorite parks was El Parque Beethoven, where every hour on the hour three-foot-high mechanical wooden soldiers emerge from a veranda-enclosed German-style chalet and march around it to the beat of Beethoven scores.
Another favorite was Los Chorros de Milla, a zoological park at the end of an avenue of the same name. Peacocks, lions, tigers, among others, are kept in cages around the park, which also has a high waterfall. Just outside the park is an open craft market where Meridenos sell their handmade wood and stone carvings, pottery, wind chimes, textiles and ruanas, or woolen shawls, for as little as $10 each.
A trip to the state of Merida, everyone in Venezuela will tell you, would not be complete without visits to the state's lakes and their world-class trout fishing and the villages of Jaji and Los Aleros.
Jaji, about a 20-mile car ride west of Merida, is often called the state's most beautiful village. Dominated by red-tile-roofed buildings, Jaji is a 17th-century village that was restored in 1971 with cobblestoned plazas and colonial-style churches.
In Los Aleros, another village that has been restored, stationary 1920's and 1930's cars have been dotted around the narrow, steep streets and an old-time telegraph is in working operation. The most popular tourist attraction here is an 80-foot tunnel that runs through the Cave of the Weeping Woman. The cave has been converted into a kind of amusement park fun house, with witches and goblins that jump out and surprise you while mechanical screams fill the dark, dank air.
DOWN in the valley the influence of the Spanish in Merida, who arrived in the 1600's, is to be seen in the red-roofed Colonial homes, the light-skinned, blond and red-haired settlers and the swift tempo of life.
But if one thing has remained the same in Merida throughout the last two centuries, it is the stark difference between the rural and the urban ways of life. Each has maintained its identity, its customs and its idiosyncracies. Although some villagers, who are mostly laborers and farmers, have discarded their donkeys for modest, often rickety cars, a good many still prefer four-legged transportation along the narrow, winding, rock-strewn mountain trails.
In a country seemingly in love with the latest - in clothing, videos and appliances - Meridenos are considered the keepers of traditional Venezuela.
 
A VISITOR'S GUIDE TO MERIDA
 
Getting There
Merida can best be reached by air from Caracas on Avensa Airlines or Aeropostal. The trip last about 45 minutes and costs $50 round trip, calculated at a rate of 38 bolivars to the dollar. Pan American World Airways, American Airlines, Eastern and Viasa, the Venezuelan airline, all have daily flights to Caracas from New York.
 
Hotels
Although hotel rates have increased about 30 percent since early this year, there are still many bargains.
The most expensive would include the Hotel Park and Hotel Pedregoza.
Hotel Park (Calle 37, Avenida 4; telephone 634866) has 133 rooms and a travel agency and restaurant on the lobby level. A double room is $26 a person a night.
Hotel Pedregoza (Pedregoza Norte; 632505), just outside the city, includes a lake, riding trails and a children's play area. It has 104 rooms. A double room is $32 a person a night.
Hotel Belesante, in the La Hacienda area of Merida (691655) has been recently renovated with spacious rooms and a restaurant. It has 63 rooms and rates are $21 a person for a double room. Hotel Valle Grande (El Valle; 443011) has 80 rooms and 30 chalets, a nightclub, restaurant and a mini-golf course. Horses can also be rented. Double rooms are $21; two- to four-bedroom fully equipped chalets cost $30 to $70.
More information: Association of Merida Tour Guides (525080).
 
Dining
Merida dazzles with dining bargains. Two people can have a three-course dinner at a fine restaurant for about $16 with wine. Venezuelan cooking is heavily influenced by Spanish food. Special holiday foods are also served at Christmas, which is celebrated from November to January, and at Easter. The food at those times would include tamales filled with meats or vegetables. Following are some of Merida's restaurants:
Il Duce (Avenida Las Americas; 632814), one of the finest in Merida, serves a pasta appetizer, a chicken entree, dessert and a beverage for about $10 a person.
La Casa Vieja (Avenida Los Proceres; 635885) serves typical Venezuelan cuisine. A plentiful seafood dinner, with appetizer, beverage and dessert costs about $6 a person.
Hotel Valle Grande (El Valle; 443011) has a restaurant that serves both Spanish and Venezuelan dishes. Dinner costs about $8 a person.
 
Getting Around
Taxis are available for travel in Merida City, but a car is needed to visit the mountain vilages. Car rental rates range from $45 to $60 a day.
The mountain roads leading to the villages are narrow and winding, and Andeans are notorious for their daredevil driving. Drive defensively, and avoid driving at night. Also, those who drive up the mountains are susceptible to high-altitude sickness. Take winter clothing along and make more rest stops as you go higher. - E. L.

GRAPHIC: Farming the steep fields of the Andes, in the state of Merida, Venezuela; the city of Merida stretches over three miles on a gently sloping plateau at an altitude of 5,300 feet (Rob Crandall/Picture Group); map of Venezuela highlighting Merida

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 0069 (HKSE) (57%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: ALPS (79%); ANDES (79%); 

COMPANY: SHANGRI-LA ASIA LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VENEZUELA; MERIDA (VENEZUELA)

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL MOUNTAINS (90%); TOURISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (63%); 

PERSON: LLORENTE, ELIZABETH



140 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 1989

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 14, Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: For Hindus, a Temple of Their Own

BYLINE: By SHARON L. BASS

 BODY:
FOR 10 years, Hindus in Connecticut have worshipped in a community center and a school cafeteria or traveled out of the state. Now, they have a temple of their own, the first of its kind in the state.
Called Shri Satyanarayan Temple, it is perched on a hill surrounded by eight acres of wooded land in Middletown, across from Middlesex Community College. Though construction has not yet been completed, 200 of the state's 1,000 Hindu families have been meeting in the white concrete building for the last two months, holding prayer services to the deities, dance classes for children and festivals for all. 
Temple members say it is good to have a place they can call their spiritual home. ''I feel at home because I know there's a place I can come to,'' said Krishnan Gopal, a member of the temple and its board of trustees. Dr. Gopal is a radiologist at Windham Community Memorial Hospital in Willimantic. There are eight other board members, seven of whom are also medical doctors.
 
A Way of Life
''Hinduism is 100 percent of my life, it is a way of life for me,'' he said.
Dina Bhatt said she used to go to a temple in Queens, N.Y. ''It feels good to have a place of our own,'' to indoctrinate the children into the Hindu faith and help strengthen the adults' faith, she said.
''The temple represents the fulfillment of a longtime dream,'' said Rao Singamsetti, who is the president of the Connecticut Valley Hindu Temple Society and an associate professor of economics at the University of Hartford.
During the 1960's, many of the Hindus in Connecticut came to the state from India, either for employment or to go to graduate or medical school. Because of the immigration patterns, Dr. Singamsetti said, ''most of us who were drawn here are professionals.''
 
Semblance of Our Heritage
Dr. A. V. Srinivasm, the acting priest, said: ''We came to the United States with the idea that we'd go back to India, but the majority of us have settled here and our children are growing up and we want to make sure they grow up with some semblance of our heritage.'' Dr. Srinivasm, a founding member of the Hindu temple and an engineer for United Technology in East Hartford, started the Hindu Society in Connecticut in 1979; one of the prime goals of the society was to build a temple.
Exposing their children to the Hindu way of life was the major motivation for establishing the temple, members say. Although Dr. Srinivasm said they have faced no obstacles since they started building the temple four years ago, it has taken a lot of money and work. So far, it has cost $600,000 for architectural and construction costs. All the money, he said, has been donated by the people of the temple.
Still needed to be constructed is a sanctuary in the two-story building, which has a community center, kitchen and priest quarters completed. A section of the main lobby is currently used for worship and prayer.
During a recent Sunday afternoon, dozens of Hindus filled the temple. A dozen girls wearing long, straight dresses, called salwar, and slacks, called kamiz, participated in a classic Hindu dance class taught by a woman wrapped in a red sari and seated in a chair. With expressionless faces, the dancers followed their teacher's verbal instructions.
 
Dance Imparts Discipline
The dance, explained Dr. Gopal, as well as the other cultural and religious activities, ''gives the children discipline.''
''As we get older, spiritual needs become more important,'' he said. ''You tend to think more spiritualistic and less materialistic.'' Adults gathered in the makeshift sanctuary, a corner of the first floor, sitting barefoot and cross-legged on scattered rugs. On the pink and cream walls around them hung prints of the Hindu gods. An elderly woman, wearing a brown and white sari, burned incense, lighted candles and chanted as she offered prayer to Satyanarayana, the presiding deity of the temple. The three major Hindu gods, said Dr. Srinivasm, are Siva, Brahma and Vishnu.
After the prayer service, the adults talked about the progress of the temple and how far they had come.
''He was just born when we began digging,'' said Manahar Velandy, a psychiatrist, pointing to his 4-year-old son, Vishwam.
Vishwam's 11-year-old brother, Siddhartha, said he enjoyed helping the grownups with the religious rituals. ''It's just nice to have this kind of place in the United States. In India, they have all this kind of stuff,'' he said, referring to the pictures of the deities and the incense.
Besides dance classes and services, the temple offers religious discussions and music lessons on instruments like the violin as well as the sitar and the veena.
 
Divinity Within
Hinduism is practiced by roughly 600 million of the 850 million who live in India, said Dr. Srinivasm. In the United States, he said, there are about 20 Hindu temples and more are cropping up now. The principal belief behind Hinduism, he said, is that every human being has divinity within. ''We believe in nonviolence and non killing,'' said Basau Swamy, a temple member. ''To kill a living being is a sin.'' Most Hindus are vegetarians.
Reincarnation and good conduct are integral parts of Hinduism, said Dr. Srinivasm. Good conduct with money, family and work matters ''leads to salvation, a place of supreme bliss where you're never born again,'' he said. Conduct is defined according to one's age and station in life.
He said there is no beginning date for the practice of Hinduism. ''We never believe anything begins or ends completely. It's a continuum.''
While anyone is welcome to visit or join the temple, Dr. Srinivasm said Hindus do not proselytize. ''We believe God is one and any path or religion to God is fine,'' he said. He recited a popular story among Hindus to illustrate his point: ''A person drinks water from a lake and calls it water. Another comes along and drinks some water and gives it a different name, but it's still the same water from the same lake. What does it matter what you call it?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHRI SATYANARAYAN TEMPLE (MIDDLETOWN, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: HINDUISM RELIGION (95%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (92%); CHILDREN (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); FAMILY (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); DANCE EDUCATION (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: BASS, SHARON L



141 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Proposed City Charter Raises Sharp Argument on Land Use

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
As the merits of the proposed charter revision have been debated before community groups throughout New York City, no issue has sparked more passionate divisions - or probably confused more people - than the plans for regulating land use.
The Charter Revision Commission and its supporters say that the plan would transfer final authority over the most important zoning and land-use matters from the Board of Estimate to the City Council. The commission has proposed eliminating the board.
Under the proposed charter, land-use initiatives involving zoning changes, urban renewal plans and most city-owned residential property would automatically go from the Planning Commission to the Council. 
Other matters, including selecting sites for city projects like incinerators and shelters, would be reviewed by the Planning Commission; they would go to the Council only if the affected borough president and community board appealed the Planning Commission's decision, or if the Council voted to take jurisdiction. How Much Control for the Mayor? Proponents say the two-step system would insure that the Council reviewed significant or controversial land-use initiatives, without becoming inundated by administrative matters.
But some opponents contend that all land-use decisions should be made by elected officials, in this case the Council. These critics say that the charter commission's plan is seriously flawed because too many land-use initiatives would be decided only by the appointed officials on the Planning Commission. And they say that the mayor would control that panel, because he would appoint 7 of its 13 members.
They also say that the new mechanisms for appealing decisions to the Council would be cumbersome; the Council might have to vote once to take jurisdiction, a second time to have a proposal taken out of committee and a third time on the actual proposal.
Other opponents assert that the mayor must have much more control over the Planning Commission so that a citywide perspective would prevail. Otherwise, they say, it will be difficult to win approval for highly disputed projects like drug-rehabilitation centers or homeless shelters.
 
Questions and Responses
During debates, critics have harshly denounced the charter commission's land-use vision. Commission members say that many critics misstate what the proposed charter says. What follows are some of the most significant questions raised by the opponents, with responses from the commission.
Would the proposed charter give the mayor a new veto on land use?
Borough President Fernando Ferrer of the Bronx has often said that the proposal would create an alarming new power for the mayor. ''It grants the mayor something he never had before - a veto over the Council's decision on land use,'' he has said.
Eric Lane, the charter commission's executive director, says that the veto would simply mirror the voting dynamic that now exists.
 
Mayoral Veto on Land-Use
The proposed charter would allow the mayor to veto land-use matters approved by the Council, but the Council could override the veto with a two-thirds vote. Mr. Lane says that replicates what happens on the Board of Estimate now. The mayor has 2 of the 11 votes on the board, meaning it requires 6 of the 9 remaining votes -two-thirds - to defeat a mayoral initiative.
Would the Council have to vote on land-use questions?
Opponents including Marcy Benstock, the executive director of the Clean Air Campaign, and Leslie Lowe, a lawyer who is a member of Community Board 2 in Manhattan, contend that the Council would never have to vote, not even on zoning changes that would go to it automatically.
''Elected officials don't have to vote on matters that affect your survival,'' Ms. Lowe said during a debate. Leasing Waterfront Property But Mr. Lane said that the proposed charter is similar to the current Charter on this question. If the Planning Commission approves a land-use or zoning matter now, the Board of Estimate must vote on it within 60 days. If it does not, the Planning Commission's decision is final. The deadline is intended to force decisions within a reasonable time.
The proposed charter says that the Council must hold a public hearing and take ''an affirmative vote'' to approve or disapprove a Planning Commission decision. It also says that if the Council fails to act within 50 days, the commission's decision is final.
Mr. Lane said there are no instances known in which the Board of Estimate failed to act, and that there is no reason to assume the Council would be less responsible.
Would the new charter allow waterfront property to be leased without the approval of elected officials? Creating or Closing a Loophole? Ms. Benstock said at a debate that the charter ''will encourage giveaways of public waterfronts.''
The revised charter would allow the city to lease city-owned wharf property. If the property were to be used for waterfront commerce or navigation, the lease would require a vote of three-quarters of the Council.
But the proposal says that the lease would be considered approved if the Council failed to act within 45 days. Ms. Benstock says the time limit is a large and potentially devastating loophole.
But the charter commission's lawyers say that the current charter exempts all waterfront leases from the city's formal land-use review, to encourage companies interested in using the waterfront for shipping, cargo and related uses. All the Charter requires for approval of such leases is a three-quarters vote of the Board of Estimate. Some city agencies have used the quick procedure on waterfront leases for restaurants and other businesses unrelated to shipping or navigation, the charter commission says.
The proposed charter attempts to close the existing loophole, said Andrew Lynn, a staff lawyer for the charter commission. For the first time, any leases on city-owned wharf property that did not involve shipping and cargo would have to go through a complete land-use review, Mr. Lynn said.
The proposed charter leaves intact the quick approval for leases involving shipping and navigation, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC); CHARTER REVISION COMMISSION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAND USE POLICIES; CITY COUNCILS; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CITY CHARTERS LAND USE PLANNING (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ZONING (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); VETO (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); POLITICS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (70%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN



142 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: How Really to Cut Down Illegal Immigration;
Protect the Innocent

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Jobs Being Filled by Illegal Aliens Despite Sanctions'' (front page, Oct. 9) was foreseen by opponents of immigration reform legislation. That law was a mismarriage of ''reforms'' sought by two minorities in Congress, the Hispanophobes, who wanted to keep out Mexican migrants, and the Hispanophiles, who wanted legalization for illegal aliens already here.
The ebb and flow of Mexican migrants across our Southern border is likely to continue as long as there are jobs here that are shunned, for whatever reasons, by legal residents. Bogus documents were the inevitable consequence of the law's requirement that employers demand proof from each new employee of his right to work in the United States. 
We could control our border more effectively if we allowed short-term legal entry for screened Mexicans who can produce police clearances and family data from their home communities. Such migrants would enter through normal channels and could be monitored while here to assure timely departure. This would be far more orderly than a situation in which otherwise harmless job seekers must sneak across the border or be smuggled in by ''coyotes.''
The opponents of short-term legal entry argue that such a program would make it easier for migrants to find jobs, thus depriving legal residents of employment opportunities. That is a myth refuted by credible studies and by the experience of employers whose premises have been raided by Immigration and Naturalization Service agents to arrest and deport undocumented Mexicans. Most of the vacated jobs went begging until ''illegal aliens'' came back to take them. A President's Council of Economic Advisers report found that the Mexican migrants who come here temporarily for hard-to-fill jobs benefit the economies of both countries.
The flood of harmless migrants who must sneak or be smuggled across the border because there is no legal alternative are used as cover by the drug traffickers and other criminals, who are a serious threat to our country. By establishing a legal, short-term entry procedure for the innocuous migrants, we would divert the Mexicans who benefit our economy to normal entry channels and thus make it far easier for our border officials to apprehend and prohibit entry by the malefactors, who must of necessity find illegal ways to enter our country.
 
E. M. GILES
San Antonio, Oct. 9, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (54%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); IMMIGRATION (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); COUNTERFEITING (55%); 

PERSON: CLARE SHORT (51%); 



143 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 14, Column 5; Society Desk

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Anne Celfo Wed To Joel Silverman

 BODY:
Anne Celfo, a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Celfo of Belleville, N.J., was married there yesterday to Joel Andrew Silverman, the son of Barbara Silverman of Brooklyn and the late Benjamin Silverman. Rabbi Charles Lippman and the Rev. Thomas E. Daly, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at Nanina's-in-the-Park. 
Mrs. Silverman, 39 years old, graduated from Upsala College and received an M.B.A. degree from New York University. She is a manager of employee benefits at the ITT Corporation in New York.
The bridegroom, 39, is an associate at the New York law firm of Kelley, Drye & Warren. A magna cum laude graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, he studied at the London School of Economics and received a J.D. degree at the N.Y.U. Law School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ITT (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (71%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KELLEY DRYE & WARREN LLP (84%); ITT CORP (71%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); LAW SCHOOLS (86%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (86%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (85%); LEGAL SERVICES (85%); RELIGION (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); EMPLOYMENT (53%); 

PERSON: CELFO, ANNE (ANNE SILVERMAN); SILVERMAN, JOEL



144 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 8, Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Best Foot Forward, or Close

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Nov. 5

 BODY:
The National Horse Show concluded its debut at the Meadowlands tonight with a familiar trill from the huntsman's horn and the $50,000 Big Apple Grand Prix, an ironic link to the show's former home site of the last 105 years.
Thirty-four horses attempted the imposing course of the Big Apple, a World Cup qualifying event, and five earned a trip to the jumpoff, where Hiro Tomazawa of Japan, on Don Carlos, managed the only clean ride and a time of 32.01 seconds.
Beezie Patton, who withdrew from the jumpoff after Northern Magic twice refused its first obstacle, was named the show's Leading International Rider; the United States took the Leading International Team award; Greg Best was Leading Open Jumper Rider, and Ian Millar of Canada, victorious last Thursday in the Puissance, was Leading Foreign Rider.
 
Teen-Ager Wins the Maclay
In the Rolex-Maclay National Championship for the A.S.P.C.A. Horsemanship Final, a local challenger, 16-year-old Raymond Texel from Eatontown, N.J., outrode a field of 98 this afternoon on his 11-year-old thoroughbred, Meet the Press. 
Texel said he did not mind being the first Maclay champion not to claim the honors at Madison Square Garden because, having never ridden there, he did not miss it.
The National, anxious about having gone suburban by moving to New Jersey after holding court in Manhattan for over a century, struggled all week to retain its old pomp at its new Meadowlands address and succeeded in matters practical if not sentimental.
But from the horses to the riders to the Dalmatian that followed the carriage of dignitaries into the ring on opening night, the change of place was felt in marked ways.
 
Manhattan and Money Desired
The horses, accustomed to stuffy fifth-floor quarters at Madison Square Garden, breathed more freely in their tents in the Meadowlands parking lot, but some suffered a case of wet feet, because of stall flooding when it rained.
The riders grumbled about missing Manhattan and something they described as ''the aura'' there. They also felt a more vigorous recruitment of sponsors was in order to bolster the National's $240,000 in prize money.
The Dalmatian, sensing himself far from his usual opening night stomping grounds, had to be shooed into the ring last Tuesday.
The National left the Garden for reasons best described as economic, although a smattering of sour grapes had seemed to ferment between show officials and their Garden counterparts.
The National said it felt stagnated by the Garden's confines and tariffs. The Garden said it could not avoid charging city occupancy rates to the National merely out of a sentimental interest in keeping the event in New York. Hence the move.
 
A Vote for 'Eliteness'
''They did a nice job here,'' said Anne Kursinski of the United States Equestrian Team. ''But I hope they can keep the eliteness and streamline it so it doesn't turn into just another indoor show. It should be a show for the cream of the crop. That's what made it work at the Garden.''
The Meadowlands, which negotiated a three-year contract with the National, promised it would be a robust and cooperative ally to the National, and by most accounts, it was. David Distler, one of the show's three assistant managers, said the Meadowlands staff members, from administrators to union crews, were consistently obliging.
''The ring itself was impressive,'' said Best, who finished third in the Big Apple on Gem Twist. ''For sure nobody can say the social aspects were comparable to those at the Garden. But on the other hand, I don't think the physical aspects of the Garden facility can compare to these here.''
 
Dirt Needed a Dryout
There were, however, relocation problems. The first crisis occurred a week ago after more than a million pounds of dirt freshly imported from Sparta, N.J., was installed in Byrne Meadowlands Arena and found to be too damp by the footing consultant, Hermann Duckek of Denmark.
All day Monday, the staff supervised a frenetic removal of the dirt to the parking lot, where it was sifted and dried and ultimately reinstalled.
''Had it been raining on Monday,'' Distler said, ''we would have been dead in the water. But that put us a full day behind in our preparations, and as a result, the stable area wasn't really prepared when the rain hit on Tuesday.''
 
Hectic Improvisation
Scant hours before the show's formal opening Tuesday evening, Distler and his associates scrambled to construct enough makeshift dikes to keep the parking-lot runoff out of the stalls.
''There's trouble in river city, literally,'' Distler said as he searched in vain for a free moment to exchange his workwear for the suit required by his ringmaster duties.
''Everybody talked about how unhealthy it was for the horses to be cooped up at the Garden,'' said Leslie Burr Lenehan, a gold medalist in the 1984 Olympics. ''But what if we'd had a hurricane out there instead of just a storm?''
Inside the arena, all was warm and dry and colorful. Boutiques dotting the concourse sold everything from saddles to jewelry to furniture, all with a tony equine theme.
 
Some Diversions Dragged
Some of the innovations on the show's expanded program seemed well-suited to the family entertainment the Meadowlands hoped to provide, but others took up time that might have been more efficiently devoted to jumping classes.
The Superdogs from Canada, and Rugged Lark, the world champion quarterhorse stallion, charmed and invigorated the audience. But lengthy classes dedicated to elusive arts, like carriage competition and sidesaddle, needed streamlining.
The National lost the bulk of its Long Island audience this year, but increased support from New Jersey and from Westchester and Rockland Counties compensated, the event's organizers said.
The show typically draws 60,000 customers to provide $1 million of its $2 million operating expenses, and by the close of this afternoon's Maclay program, which drew 9,400, that goal had nearly been passed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (50%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE SHOWS; NATIONAL HORSE SHOW EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (92%); HORSES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); HORSE RACING (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); 

PERSON: FINN, ROBIN



145 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Abruptly Closes a Route for Soviet Jews

BYLINE: By ANN COOPER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 5

 BODY:
Overwhelmed by an unexpected tide of Soviet Jews seeking to emigrate, Washington has closed off an important immigration route to the United States sooner than expected. The move prompted a rush by thousands of Jews today to beat the deadline.
This fall, with Soviet restrictions on the departure of Jews easing and the demand for United States visas soaring, the State Department announced that the special route for Soviet Jews, a circuitous path through Rome or Vienna, would soon be closed.
Washington originally planned to close the route after processing the immigration requests of all Soviet Jews with exit visas dated before Oct. 1. 
Last week, the State Department set another deadline. Every prospective emigrant with properly dated Soviet exit documents would also have to obtain Israeli visas by today, or forfeit the right to use the Vienna-Rome route to the United States.
Jewish citizens seeking to emigrate from the Soviet Union first obtain Israeli visas, which are granted automatically through the Dutch Embassy in Moscow. Many then apply to the United States Embassy for refugee status and seek American citizenship. As an alternative, many travel to Rome or Vienna while ostensibly on their way to Israel, only to seek United States asylum once they arrive in Italy or Austria.
For years, Washington has assailed Moscow for controlling the tide of Jewish emigration. But with the Soviet Union now permitting Jews to leave in record numbers, the United States has sought to limit the influx of emigrants by imposing a ceiling of 50,000 for the coming year.
Those who met today's deadline can use their Israeli visas to leave the Soviet Union, then follow the route through Vienna and Rome, which for years has been virtually the only path for Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union to the United States.
American consular officials said they abandoned plans to keep the route open until the end of the year mainly because the number of Soviet Jews already on the way was likely to fill the quota of 50,000 Soviet refugees set by the State Department for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1.
There are 1.8 million Jews in the Soviet Union, and as many as 150,000 were expected to seek American citizenship this year.
Officials also said they had begun to find evidence of forged documents among would-be emigres who missed the earlier deadline requiring that they have Soviet exit visas by Oct. 1.
Jews who did not make today's deadline will now have to apply directly to the United States for permission to immigrate.
They will find the way blocked by tens of thousands of other citizens trying to move to the United States, and by the American ceiling.
Those who are not accepted as refugees may be offered the opportunity to immigrate under a special parole program. But they must have American sponsors who will guarantee their economic well-being.
 
Dutch Officials Sought Extension
Soviet Jews also have the option of emigrating to Israel. But over the last two years, as Soviet officials have eased restrictions on Jewish emigration, more than 90 percent of those departing with Israeli visas have gone to the United States instead.
The unexpected policy change was announced by United States officials on Thursday in a meeting with Dutch consular officials. The Netherlands represents Israeli interests in the Soviet Union, including the issuing of visas.
Many applicants heard of the decision on Voice of America, the United States Government radio service, and rushed to Moscow from all over the Soviet Union to make today's deadline.
Dutch officials asked the United States to extend its new deadline for a few days.
When American officials declined, the Dutch decided to keep their consular office open on Sunday in order to issue last-minute visas.
The new deadline was largely a reaction to an unexpected flood of 11,000 Jews who arrived at the Dutch consulate last month with Soviet exit visas dated before Oct. 1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); AUSTRIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ITALY (72%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); VIENNA (AUSTRIA); ROME (ITALY); ISRAEL, STATE OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JEWS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; QUOTAS IMMIGRATION (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); REFUGEES (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); COUNTERFEITING (69%); PAROLE (50%); 

PERSON: COOPER, ANN



146 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Matters;
Asking Voters To Accept Much On Sheer Faith

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Not since the election of Judge John F. Hylan, a former locomotive engineer, as Mayor in 1917 have New York City's voters been asked to accept so much on faith.
David N. Dinkins, the Democratic nominee and one-term Manhattan Borough President, boasts modest relevant experience in municipal government. Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican-Liberal candidate and a former Federal prosecutor, offers none.
So far, what the major-party candidates have achieved, while confronted with a billion-dollar deficit, is a higher level of expectation than either may be able to fulfill and an emerging, if premature, nostalgia for the incumbent, Edward I. Koch. 
Mr. Dinkins promises to help the poor and achieve racial harmony; Mr. Giuliani promises to repel the plague of crime and drugs. The rap against Mr. Dinkins is that he is too deliberative and vulnerable to the importunings of organized labor and social-welfare advocates. Mr. Giuliani's perceived liabilities are his political naivete and a sedimentary philosophical foundation on which he stands as a man of many convictions.
Yet New Yorkers know by now that their mayors are seldom what they seemed.
In 1965, John V. Lindsay inveighed against power brokers but eventually struck an accommodation. Comptroller Abraham D. Beame said he knew the buck, but, through little fault of his own, presided as Mayor over a city others had to help rescue from the brink of bankruptcy. Mr. Koch was a profligate son of Greenwich Village, but, by necessity, metamorphosed almost overnight into a fiscal conservative.
This year, there are added reasons for uncertainty. The fulcrum of the campaign appears to be whether, as Mr. Dinkins implies, racial harmony is a prerequisite for economic prosperity or whether, as Mr. Giuliani suggests, a healthy economic climate - abetted by reduced crime -will generate a more enduring calm.
That Mr. Dinkins would be the city's first black mayor injected the same uncertainties that earlier political pioneers had set off. With blacks overwhelmingly supporting Mr. Dinkins, white Catholics generally for Mr. Giuliani, and Hispanic voters more divided, Jews -who represented the largest contingent of white voters for Mr. Dinkins in the Democratic primary - appear to be pivotal again, and this has provoked hand-wringing. Many of them are sensitive about being singled out.
''They don't want to do anything to make the Jewish community stand out and to bring on the kind of anti-Semitism they are worried about,'' said Assemblyman George Friedman, the Bronx Democratic leader.
In 1965, in fact, some among the one in four Jewish voters who helped elect Mr. Lindsay on the Republican and Liberal lines feared that Mr. Beame, as the city's first Jewish mayor, would become the scapegoat if the melting pot boiled over. (After Mr. Beame won in 1973, John J. DeLury, the president of the sanitation workers union, said bankers never would have pulled the plug on a non-Jewish mayor).
Merits aside, some Jewish voters may be motivated by guilt. Others, like some whites in general, may have abandoned Mr. Dinkins because of concerns about his association with the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
Jews, says Albert Vorspan, senior vice president of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, ''do not have to support Jesse Jackson out of some misconceived Jewish guilt,'' but nor, he said yesterday, should they reflexively judge Mr. Dinkins guilty of associating with Mr. Jackson without assessing his own record.
''There is a name for that - it is racism,'' Mr. Vorspan said. ''It is time to exorcise that dybbuk, lest Jesse Jackson become our excuse for racial stereotyping and hatred.''
Some people said Mr. Dinkins never would have been taken seriously had he been white; others said he would have breezed into office had he not been black. There are other grounds to judge him on, but race will presumably figure in many voters' minds. How many, and whether they vote for or against him as a result, New Yorkers will know tomorrow. What they still may be less confident about is what kind of mayor either candidate would make.
Which brings us back to Mayor Hylan. On Jan. 1, 1926, he was struck by how well the permanent government of his day was represented at the inauguration of his successor, James J. Walker. ''I want to congratulate you that so many of your friends are present,'' he wryly told the new Mayor. ''As I look about me, I remember some of their faces on Jan. 1, 1918, and again on Jan. 1, 1922.''
Later, Mayor Walker graciously restored Mr. Hylan to the bench - this time to Children's Court in Queens. What did the appointment mean, Mr. Walker was asked.
''It means,'' he replied, ''that the children now can be tried by their peers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MAYORS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); RELIGION (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); RACE & RACISM (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; ROBERTS, SAM RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 



147 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Expected to Be Delayed

 BODY:
With Congress yet to pass legislation to raise the nation's debt ceiling, this week's scheduled Treasury auctions are likely to be disrupted.
The first sale was scheduled to begin with today's regular weekly auction of new three-month and six-month Treasury bills. Tomorrow the Treasury planned to begin its quarterly refunding, starting with new three-year notes, followed on Wednesday by a 10-year note auction and on Thursday by auctions of 30-year bonds and 36-day cash management bills.
As a result of the delay on increasing the debt ceiling, there has been no when-issued trading, market participants said last week. And none is likely until the Treasury has received authority to go ahead with the auctions. 
Among the Government agencies expected to issue debt this week is the Student Loan Marketing Association, which plans to announce today the interest rate for a $500 million issue of short-term floating-rate notes with a maturity date of May 10, 1990. The notes will be priced at a spread to the bond equivalent rate of the 91-day Treasury bill and interest rates will be adjusted on the day after each Treasury bill auction. Should the Treasury auction not take place, the notes will then be priced off the previous auction.
The Federal National Mortgage Association plans to announce the interest rates tomorrow on two debenture offerings totaling $2.3 billion in three-year and 10-year maturities.
By late Friday, the outstanding three-month bill was bid at 7.83 percent, while the six-month bill was bid at 7.69 percent.
The following new fixed-income issues are scheduled this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
TUESDAY
 
Norfolk & Western Railway, Roanoke, Va., $51.3 million in serial equipment trust certificates due from 1990-2004, NR/Aaa/AAA. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
 
Laclede Gas Co., St. Louis, $25 million in first-mortgage bonds due in 2004, NR/Aa-2/AA. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 
H. F. Ahmanson & Co., Los Angeles, four million shares of $50 convertible preferred. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Bergen Brunswig Corp., Orange, Calif., $410 million face amount (about $151 million in proceeds) of liquid yield option notes due in 2004, NR/Baa-3/BBB+. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
Cross & Trecker Corp., Bloomfield Hills, Calif., two million shares of $25 convertible exchangeable preferred, NR/B-2/+. First Boston Corp.
General Chemical Corp., $150 million in senior secured first priority (Libor) floating-rate notes due in 1994, NR/Ba-3/B+, and $200 million in senior secured second-priority notes due 1998, NR/B-2/B. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
Gordon Jewelry Corp., Houston, $150 million in senior fixed-rate notes due in 1996, NR/Ba-3/BB, and $100 million in senior subordinated debentures due 2001, NR/ B-2/B+. Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
Millicom Inc., $60 million in subordinated exchangeable debentures due in 2014. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Reedy Creek Improvement District, Fla., $11.5 million in taxable general obligation bonds due 1999, NR/ A/A+. Bear, Stearns & Co.
R. P. Scherer Corp., Troy, Mich., $169.2 million face amount of senior subordinated discount debentures due in 1999, NR/B-2/B. Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
 
Source: McCarthy, Crisanti & Maffei Inc.
 
Ratings: MCM/Moody's/Standard & Poor's.
 
TAX-EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
 
Pennsylvania, $177 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
 
Dallas, $53 million in waterworks and sewer revenue bonds. Competitive.
Long Beach Harbor Dept., Calif., $242 million in revenue bonds. Competitive.
Maryland Department of Transportation, $100 million in revenue bonds. Competitive.
New York State, $225 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
THURSDAY
 
Westchester County, N.Y., $96.6 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TENTATIVE OFFERINGS THIS WEEK
 
Beaumont, Mich., $62 million in bonds for Royal Oak Hospital. First Boston Corp.
Dade County, Fla., $60 million in aviation revenue bonds. Paine Webber Inc.
Hawaii, $80 million in general obligation bonds. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
Michigan Municipal Bond Authority, $106 million in deficit funding bonds for the School District of the City of Detroit. Goldman, Sachs & Company.
Northern California Power Agency, Calif., $65 million in revenue bonds for a combustion turbine project refunding, and $20 million for a transmission project refunding. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
Philadephia School District, Pa., $60 million in tax and revenue anticipation notes. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); SLM (NASDAQ) (56%); ABC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (62%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (60%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (60%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%); LACLEDE GAS CO (64%); H F AHMANSON & CO (63%); GIDDINGS & LEWIS MACHINE TOOLS LLC (62%); GORDON JEWELRY CORP (60%); SLM CORP (56%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); NORFOLK SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO (53%); AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORP (52%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS TREASURY SECURITIES (95%); AUCTIONS (91%); BONDS (91%); DEBT CEILING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (69%); 

PERSON: CLARE SHORT (53%); 



148 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Greek Conservatives Lead in Votes But Fail to Win Majority of Seats

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATHENS, Nov. 5

 BODY:
The conservative New Democracy Party won the most votes in general elections today, but it failed to get enough votes to gain a parliamentary majority and form a government.
Greece is now facing another uncertain period of political negotiations to form a government, and the country may be forced to hold a third round of general elections.
The preliminary results took Greek politicians by surprise. Indications were that the financial and political scandals involving Andreas Papandreou, the Socialist leader and former Prime Minister, would give his longtime conservative rival, Constantine Mitsotakis, a majority in Parliament. 
With 96 percent of the vote counted, New Democracy had 46.4 percent of the vote, the Socialists had 40.8 percent, and the Communist-led Coalition of the Left had 10.8 percent. Small parties and independents won about 2 percent. #3 Seats Short of Majority The incomplete count gave New Democracy 148 seats in the 300-member Parliament, 3 more than the party won in elections in June, but still 3 seats short of the majority needed to form a government. The Socialists were expected to win 128 seats, with the remaining 22 seats going to the Communist coalition and independents.
''New Democracy has undoubtedly won the elections,'' Mr. Mitsotakis announced. But unable to hide his disappointment, he said Greece had ''entered a very difficult period, and the future is uncertain.''
He said that rather than seeking to form a coalition, he would go to Parliament to ask for a vote of confidence.
One of his aides said that Mr. Mitsotakis would try to convince legislators that Greece will lose valuable time holding yet another round of elections and that he would therefore try to form a minority government.
 
Economic Needs Not Met
But party officials conceded that this would not give Greece the strong government it needs to tackle its economic difficulties and make changes required by the end of 1992, when the European Community removes most of its remaining trade barriers.
The lack of a majority government has also led Greece to postpone talks with the United States to renew the agreement covering American military bases here. The present agreement expires in seven months.
Mr. Papandreou appeared elated tonight, calling the results ''a moral and political victory'' for the Socialists. After eight years in office, he lost the elections in June, but then as now the conservatives failed to win a majority.
At that time, however, conservatives and Communists were united by their indignation over what they called unprecedented levels of corruption by the Socialists, and they formed a temporary coalition for the sole purpose of prosecuting high officials of the outgoing Socialist Government.
Parliament since then has ordered Mr. Papandreou and five of his ministers to stand trial on an array of charges, including illegal phone tapping, bribery and embezzlement of public funds.
 
Many Remain Faithful
Several commentators said they were stunned by the large number of voters who had remained faithful to the Socialists despite the scandals and accusations of past months.
The Socialist leader has remained defiant through the parliamentary inquiries. He campaigned largely on the message that he is the victim of a political vendetta and that both Communists and conservatives were out to destroy his party, the Panhellenic Socialist Movement, which he founded in 1974.
''Greeks believe that political life and politicians are corrupt anyway, some more, others less,'' said Panayotis Dimitras, the director of a polling organization. ''The moral issue here is not as important as in other countries.''
 
Communist Betrayal Charged
Mr. Papandreou also clearly benefited from his assertion that he is now the only true representative of the left. The Communists, he charges, betrayed their ideals by cooperating with the right in the effort to put him on trial.
It appears that the Communists have paid a high price for their alliance with the conservatives. The incomplete results showed them losing eight seats, compared with the June results. In the last weeks their alliance with the conservatives has caused a split in their ranks and led to the departure of leaders of the Communist youth movement and several other party officials.
Some Greek commentators believe that the vicious campaign against Mr. Papandreou in many newspapers and radio stations has made his supporters rally around him.
''The mistreatment and slander over Papandreou was an index of how irresponsibly Greek politics functions,'' said Adam Pepeladis, who has served as a state bank director for both conservatives and Socialists. ''People sense the malice of it all. For heaven's sake, corruption and phone-tapping have been going on in Greece for more than 40 years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREECE

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CORRUPTION (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); BRIBERY (76%); SCANDALS (71%); EMBEZZLEMENT (63%); 

PERSON: SIMONS, MARLISE; MITSOTAKIS, CONSTANTINE CONSTANTINE MITSOTAKIS (71%); ANDREAS GEORGE PAPANDREOU (57%); 



149 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey, Florio and Courter Stress Stark Contrasts

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

DATELINE: ASBURY PARK, N.J., Nov. 5

 BODY:
Voters are facing a dramatic choice in New Jersey Tuesday between a Democratic candidate for governor who offers a return to activist government and a Republican who promises to continue the Reagan agenda with a battle against big government, taxes and crime.
In essence, it is a confrontation between a candidate, Representative James J. Florio, who believes the anti-government sentiments that brought Ronald Reagan to the White House are beginning to ebb, and his opponent, Representative Jim Courter, who believes the future depends on continuing policies that have spurred economic growth through the 1980's.
They clash in a state that was blessed by enormous economic growth in recent years and where Republican leaders have been highly popular. But it is also a state where voters are becoming anxious over the overdevelopment and pollution that growth has created.
The candidates emphasized those themes today as they urged voters at campaign stops throughout the state to cast their ballots despite polls that showed Mr. Florio with a lopsided lead. Mr. Florio and Mr. Courter each appealed to New Jerseyans to vote for their parties' Assembly candidates who are locked in a tight battle for the state's lower house. The polls will be open in New Jersey from 7 A.M. to 8 P.M. Tuesday. 
 
Growth and Congestion
In the last 10 weeks the stark philosophical contrast between the two men has often been obscured by one of the nastiest campaigns in memory. And their differences have often been expressed in emotionally charged social issues, like abortion and the rights of homosexuals. But just beneath the surface of the campaign, experts say, lie critical questions about how Americans confront a future of limited resources and how they can preserve the promise of prosperity and an environment that no longer offers unlimited room to grow.
In many parts of this, the most densely populated state in the nation, it sometimes seems residents are developing a mindset in which quality of life is often as important as quantity of wealth, and where voters recognize they can no longer exploit a world of boundless physical frontiers.
''New Jersey is squarely facing many of the problems that other states are going to face in the next decade,'' said Cliff Zukin, a former professor of politics at Rutgers University. ''The state has grown and people are happy with that. But growth has created major development and congestion problems. Its landfills are being closed and that is going to strain its tax structure. New Jersey leads the nation in toxic wastes.''
 
Economic Concerns
Mr. Florio, whose Congressional career was steeped in environmental issues, is offering New Jerseyans a promise of revitalized government, saying that with all the bounty created by economic expansion, the 1980's have bequeathed clogged highways and environmental hazards that only government can solve.
''I am going to leave New Jersey cleaner and greener,'' Mr. Florio said recently at a campaign stop in Belleville, N.J. ''Clean water and clean air are such an axiomatic value.''
Mr. Courter, a six-term Congressman from the state's rural northwest, promised to continue the prosperity that took place in New Jersey during the terms of President Ronald Reagan and Gov. Thomas H. Kean. He has pledged not to raise taxes and has proposed a cap on state spending as well as a plan to bring dow high automobile insurance premiums through deregulation and increased competition.
''I desperately want to make sure the economic success we have had in New Jersey, the creation of three quarters of a million new jobs, is not placed at risk by virtue of New Jersey being less competitive,'' Mr. Courter said in a recent interview.
 
Series of Fiscal Crises
The race this year takes place against a backdrop of political success for Republican chief executives in the 1980's in New Jersey. Independents and Democrats helped give victories twice to Mr. Reagan and once to George Bush. Four years ago, Mr. Kean, a Republican, was re-elected with 70 percent of the vote.
When Mr. Kean first took office in 1982, New Jersey was one of the East Coast's most beleaguered states. Tens of thousands of manufacturing jobs had been lost in the 1970's, and the unemployment rate was nearly 10 percent. State government lurched from fiscal crisis to fiscal crisis.
But by 1986, New Jersey's sprawling suburbs had become magnets for high-technology industries and corporate offices. The unemployment rate eventually dropped to below 4 percent, and until last year, the state reported large budget surpluses.
Pledging to keep New Jersey an inviting home for business, Mr. Courter has warned voters that his opponent will raise taxes and once again stifle opportunity for all New Jerseyans.
Though he supports a number of environmental protection initiatives, the government role Mr. Courter has emphasized most is in fighting crime. He promises to alter the current death penalty statute, which he blames for the failure of the state to carry out executions, and has promised a strong effort against drugs.
 
Anxiety After Growth
To solve the problem that has outraged voters more than any other, Mr. Courter has offered a plan to deregulate the automobile insurance industry and allow competition to cut high premiums.
''New Jersey doesn't have bad drivers,'' Mr. Courter said repeatedly. ''It has bad laws.'' Despite a general satisfaction among voters with growth and Republican leadership in the last decade, the problems that have accompanied economic boom have created anxiety.
In the last eight years, local property taxes have soared, and as more cars bumped into each other, the cost of automobile insurance has jumped. Increasingly, the desire to preserve virgin stretches of green land and shoreline have collided with centuries-old traditions of home rule that let towns and cities grow as they wished.
Polls by the Eagleton Institute showed that 40 percent of the people who drive to work in New Jersey have had to change their schedules to avoid congestion. The polls found that a majority of New Jerseyans now believe that there has been too much growth and development in the state. Mr. Florio has tried to tap those feelings.
Early in the campaign, Mr. Florio announced the election was about ''clean water,'' a phrase that became an emblem for protection of air, water, beaches and open spaces. He has said he would appoint an environmental prosecutor to make sure polluters were brought to justice. And he has called for a crackdown on the automobile insurance companies, saying the industry needs more regulation, not less.
 
Troubled Courter Campaign
Recent polls have shown Mr. Florio leading Mr. Courter by large margins. The latest poll, released today by the Eagleton Institute, showed Mr. Florio with a 24 percentage point lead over his opponent. The poll was conducted by telephone with 1,000 people during a five-day period ending last Thursday. It had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.
In part, Mr. Courter's campaign has been troubled, both Democrats and Republicans agree, by an inablility for him to get his growth and small government message across to the voters. Through the late summer and early fall, he was forced to spend too much of his time explaining his positions on abortion and homosexuals.
Though Mr. Courter was a strong supporter of anti-abortion legislation in Congress, he announced shortly after the Webster decision was handed down by the United States Supreme Court last summer that as governor, he would not impose his opinions on New Jersey.
With polls showing that a large majority of the public opposes new restrictions on abortion in the state, Mr. Courter is believed to have lost votes both because of his anti-abortion record in Congress and because Democrats said he ''flip-flopped'' on the issue. Mr. Florio said he opposes any changes in the current laws.
In addition, in August Mr. Courter said he believed in limiting the rights of homosexuals to work as teachers, foster parents and camp counselors. Less than three weeks later, he changed his position.
The Courter campaign was also hurt, his campaign says, by the negative television advertisements against him. Since Mr. Courter started the campaign far less well known than Mr. Florio, he had to introduce himself to the voters while simultaneously trying to strike back.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Representative James J. Florio, campaigning at the Polish National Home in Linden, N.J. (NYT/William E. Sauro); Jim Courter seeking support at a breakfast in Clifton for Assembly candidates. (Frank C. Dougherty)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); CRIME AND CRIMINALS POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LANDFILLS (68%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (62%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER; COURTER, JIM (REPR); FLORIO, JAMES J (REPR); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON JAMES A COURTER (93%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); 



150 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: Doctor Who Billed Millions Is Cut by New York Medicaid

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

 BODY:
At Dr. Giovanni del Gizzo's storefront office in East Harlem, patients began lining up as early as 5 A.M. They sat for hours in a crowded, smoky lobby for what was often only a 30- to 45-second consultation with the doctor, who almost invariably handed them a prescription for a battery of drugs worth $150 or more. The state, under Medicaid, picked up the entire tab.
''I'm making history here,'' the gaunt 61-year-old physician told a reporter one day last month as he sat at his desk, signing prescriptions, lecturing patients and sipping from a cup of chicken broth. He described himself as a ''miracle worker,'' capable of curing dozens of people an hour of problems with heroin, crack or alcohol.
New York State Medicaid officials have a different view. Saying that Dr. del Gizzo billed the state for unnecessary prescriptions and laboratory tests, they expelled him late last month from the program, which is intended to provide free medical care to the state's poorest citizens. 
In the 12-month period ending in August, Dr. del Gizzo ordered $3.9 million in prescriptions and other services -the largest annual billing by a doctor in New York in Medicaid's 23-year history. In the last two years, Dr. del Gizzo has received nearly $1 million in fees for his own services.
State officials, noting that New York's program is the biggest, said they believed this was the largest billing in the nation.
''This guy is the Dwight Gooden of Medicaid billers,'' James Durkin, the director of the state Department of Social Services office that investigates abuse of the Medicaid system, said in an interview before Dr. del Gizzo's expulsion. ''He has an arm that just won't quit.''
Each of the next two highest billers in the New York program ordered just over $2 million in services and prescriptions in 12 months. One has been expelled from the program and the other is under investigation.
State officials say many of Dr. del Gizzo's patients flocked to him not because they sought treatment but because they could profit by illegally selling the free tranquilizers, antidepressants and inhalators that he ordered for them. Others were said to be addicts who simply used the prescription drugs to amplify the effect of illegal drugs.
 
Assembly-Line Treatment
Officials emphasize that most doctors serving Medicaid patients are conscientious and struggle under a system that pays them as little as $11 per visit. But those like Dr. del Gizzo who treat patients in assembly-line fashion can bill hundreds of thousands of dollars for doing relatively little, they said.
Later this month, the state will impose new restrictions to curb visits to multiple doctors under Medicaid. But these limits have drawn stern criticism from health-care advocacy groups. They contend that the rules may punish the great majority of legitimate Medicaid recipients, while cases like Dr. del Gizzo's show that the state can already determine who is abusing the system.
The procedure under which Dr. del Gizzo was expelled dragged on for more than a year and came to a close only after he used numerous appeals.
Officials say that the delay in expelling him illustrates how difficult it can be to force out a doctor even after evidence of subtantial abuse has been gathered.
Medicaid, which is available in all 50 states, is paid for by a combination of Federal, state and local funds. In New York, which spends 20 percent of the nation's Medicaid funds, the program has an $11 billion yearly budget and serves 2.3 million people.
The state estimates the annual cost of such abuse at $150 million, but some private watchdog groups say it is much higher. In some cases, officials have been successful in compelling doctors to reimburse the system or imposing liens to recover money. But, investigators say, there are hundreds of other unscrupulous operators to take the place of those expelled.
It is not clear whether Dr. del Gizzo will face criminal or disciplinary charges. The state's file on his practice, which includes reports by undercover investigators of coercion for unnecessary services and a peer-review finding that his practice was both ''abusive'' and ''dangerous,'' has been referred to the special state prosecutor for Medicaid fraud and to the State Health Department panel that can revoke medical licenses. But officials in both agencies would not comment on whether any actions were being contemplated.
Dr. del Gizzo's office is on the ground floor of a three-story white-brick building at 23 East 115th Street in Harlem. Also on the block are vacant lots, a liquor store and a small grocery.
What the state claims was fraud, Dr. del Gizzo described as efficient treatment. During an interview before his expulsion, conducted while he saw patients and dispensed prescriptions, he vigorously denied all charges that he dispensed drugs for anything other than legitimate medical care.
''I see literally hundreds of people a week,'' explained the doctor, who came to work that day in checkered slacks and a yellow sweater.
''Some cases take 30 seconds, some, of course, a little longer,'' he said. ''I have so much work to do here, such a volume of cases. Drugs and alcohol we get here. We get everything. We get AIDS, we get homosexuals, we get transvestites. We get pneumonia, we get gall bladders. I am telling you, we get everything.''
 
Dirty Tile Floors
Dr. del Gizzo said he was conducting a ''major experiment'' in drug and alcohol treatment and expressed no objection when a reporter asked to watch him at work.
Based on per-visit rates established under the Medicaid program, the state paid Dr. del Gizzo $512,318 last year and $435,826 before he was expelled this year, according to Department of Social Service records. Prescriptions, sonograms and blood tests ran the cost of many patients' visits into the hundreds of dollars.
Dr. del Gizzo's office, with its dirty tile floors and artificial-wood paneling, was crammed with people. The waiting room was enveloped in a haze of cigarette smoke and a din of complaining.
''Hurry it up in there,'' one patient shouted through a small plastic window next to the locked door leading to the doctor's cubicle. At 2 P.M., a posted cardboard sign indicated that there were still 89 people waiting to get in.
A typical exchange occurred between the doctor and John Judson, 32, who said he was unemployed and had come in because of problems with alcohol and a variety of pains.
''So?'' asked Dr. del Gizzo. ''You are doing better? You are not drinking?''
''Oh yes, doctor,'' said Mr. Judson. ''Thanks to you.'' ''Your life is better than before?'' ''Yes.'' With that, Dr. del Gizzo signed a form. On it were two-week to one-month prescriptions for Buspar, a tranquilizer; Zantac, an ulcer medication; Elavil, an anti-depressant; Proventil, an inhaler used to quell asthmatic symptoms; Feldene, an anti-inflammatory drug that eases back pain, and Lotrimin, a cream for rashes. Mr. Judson left, and another patient quickly stepped in.
Whatever the case, the treatment appeared to be about the same. The doctor, who received a medical degree in 1951 from the University of Naples in Italy, seemed to give everybody a brief lecture on the dangers of drugs or drinking, and then he signed a prescription.
The same drugs showed up over and over on the prescription forms. Some were mood-altering anti-depressants, some were for ulcers or asthma or stomach irritations.
Ninety-four percent of prescriptions Dr. del Gizzo wrote last year were for pharmaceuticals on the Department of Social Services' list of ''abused prescription drugs.'' These include drugs that can easily be sold on the street or can provide high revenue for pharmacies that buy them back on the black market.
A three-month supply of the ulcer medication Zantac, for instance, is worth $115.56 when reimbursed under Medicaid. On the black market, however, it can be purchased for as little as $5, said John P. Wrafter, director of the bureau of provider audit at the State Department of Social Services.
Two of the three pharmacies that filled the highest volume of Dr. del Gizzo's prescriptions were expelled from the Medicaid program earlier this year after undercover investigators witnessed black-market purchases inside or near the stores, Mr. Durkin said.
One, the Lenox-SSim Pharmacy at 184 Lenox Avenue, closed. The other, Nino Drugs, at 77 East 115th Street, obtained a temporary injunction but is now being sent a final expulsion order by a state judge.
The doctor who randomly reviewed 10 of Dr. del Gizzo's cases for the Department of Social Services described his prescriptions as ''a polypharmaceutical flood without adequate justification,'' and said the files showed ''excessive visits'' by patients with little indication of their problems.
''The most serious issues of quality of care arise in this practice because of repetitive prescription of controlled substances for long periods of time to patients with a track record of substance abuse,'' said the report, by Dr. Robert Matz, medical director at North Central Bronx Hospital.
Dr. del Gizzo was informed in June 1988 that he was to be expelled from Medicaid. But he remained in practice while his case was under appeal.
The appeals ended in a decision to expel him as of Oct. 26. Technically, he is still entitled to write prescriptions under the program until Friday, but he would receive no payment for his services.
Last week, as he shut his doors, Dr. del Gizzo posted a notice saying he had been ''closed illegally by Medicaid'' and urging former patients to call the Governor to protest.
''You don't understand,'' the doctor told an investigator one day in September. ''Nine out of 10 patients in here, I cure.''
''Yeah?'' the inspector snapped back. ''What do you cure them of?''

GRAPHIC: Photos of Dr. Giovanni del Gizzo talking to a patient in East Harlem (NYT/Angel Franco); patients waiting to see Dr. del Gizzo (NYT) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (94%); MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; EAST HARLEM (NYC)

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID (TITLE XIX OF FED MEDICARE LEGISLATION) MEDICAID (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (72%); MEDICARE FRAUD (71%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (71%); HEROIN (71%); MEDICARE (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); LEGISLATION (63%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; DEL GIZZO, GIOVANNI (DR)



151 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: 'Revisionist' Influence Seen in Japan Talks

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
Even though Carla A. Hills, the United States Trade Representative, finds the idea of managed trade repugnant, she has a number of outside advisers, principally from the business community, who argue that the closed nature of Japan's economy thwarts classical free-trade solutions for correcting trade imbalances.
Thus, these advisers say, governments have little choice but to intervene more in global commerce.
These people are among a wide-ranging group of students of the Japanese economy who call themselves ''revisionists'' because their recommendations for dealing with Japan depart from traditional free-trade remedies.
While Mrs. Hills believes that such intervention ''sells our industry short by putting a ceiling on what we can sell'' the views of the revisionists are likely to play a prominent role as talks about lowering Japan's trade barriers enter a second round Monday and Tuesday. 
Many of them are members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations, a group organized to advise the trade representative on policy matters. The revisionists, include economists from the Harvard Business School, the Massachussets Institute of Technology and the University of California at Berkeley, analysts including James Fallows and Karel van Wolferen, and some business leaders.
 
Blueprint by March
It was the revisionists who were, in large part, responsible for the effort to deal with some of the basic problems in trading with Japan. This week's talks follow those initiated by the United States last summer on the so-called structural impediments.
No major breakthrough is expected this week, but American trade officials said they will ask Japan to deliver a blueprint by next March describing how it intends to get rid of the barriers.
The barriers include a rigid distribution system that hurts Japanese consumers by making prices for Japanese goods 20 and 30 percent higher than they are, say, in New York. In addition, weak antitrust enforcement permits bid rigging, market allocation, group boycotts and other anticompetitive practices that work to exclude foreigners from the Japanese market.
In agreeing to take up the agenda, Tokyo insisted, and the United States agreed, that the talks focus as well on American structural barriers, like the high rate of consumption, high cost of capital and low savings, all of which work to weaken American exports and increase imports.
In the discussions, the revisionists' hand will be strengthened by statistics that suggest that trade balances do not adjust to economic variables in Japan the way they do elsewhere.
While greater government management of trade is resisted by the Bush Administration, which prefers free-market solutions, the revisionists' diagnosis of the trade problem has already had a substantial influence on the dialogue with Japan.
Their hand is strengthened by statistics. For example, despite the virtual halving of the dollar's value against the yen since 1985, the deficit with Japan has remained stuck at more than $50 billion. During that time, the American trade deficit with most other countries has declined.
A deficit with the European Community of $26.4 billion in 1986 has been wiped out, and the United States is even running a small surplus -$108.5 million - with Europe so far this year.
''The old ways of looking at the trade deficit with Japan just haven't worked, and we have to look at some other things. We have to be pragmatic and practical about this,'' said Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee's trade subcommittee.
 
'A Lousy Process'
He called the current round of talks ''the most important trade negotiations that the U.S. has ever entered into'' and warned that if they do not achieve results by next summer, he will introduce legislation aimed at sanctions. ''I am confident this legislation will pass Congress,'' he said.
But while the revisionists have complained for years of Japanese trade protection, some of them label the currents talks a diversion.
''We have a lousy process that goes nowhere,''said Rudiger Dornbush, a professor at M.I.T. ''The Japanese are offended when we make our demands. So then we retreat, and life goes on as before. The fact is that Japan remains a very closed economy, and we're getting nowhere.''
Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., a Commerce Department official in the early 1980's who was among the first to note the extensiveness of Japanese trade barriers, commented: ''It's hopeless to try to change the Japanese in a reasonable period of time.''
Mr. Dornbush, Mr. Prestowitz and other revisionists are promoting some form of managed trade.
Under the Dornbush solution, the Japanese would agree to raise imports of manufactures by 15 percent a year over 10 years. If the target was not met, there would be an automatic tariff on Japanese exports to the United States.
Mrs. Hills said the United States has a ''holistic approach'' for dealing with Japan through the structural barriers initiative, sectoral negotiations to open up markets for American supercomputers, lumber and satellites, and the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations under which Japan and more than 100 other countries are discussing liberalizing trade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); CARTELS (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%); BOYCOTTS (67%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; HILLS, CARLA A (TRADE REPR)



152 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Swapo Leader Winds Up Election Campaign

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GOBABIS, Namibia, Nov. 5

 BODY:
On the red-dirt outskirts of this arid cattle town, Sam Nujoma, the leader of the South-West Africa People's Organization, offered the voters his version of the territory's pending transition from colonialism to independence.
As Mr. Nujoma told it, his organization, popularly called Swapo, had forced South Africa, through 23 years of unrelenting guerrilla war, to accept an independence plan for Namibia under United Nations auspices.
He promised a crowd of about 1,500 supporters that his Government would not need to depend economically on South Africa, that it would promote land redistribution but not take property without adequate compensation and that Swapo had educated a cadre of engineers, teachers, doctors and scientists in exile who could run the country once it gained independence. 
It was Mr. Nujoma's last scheduled appearance in an campaign that ends Tuesday with elections to choose a constituent assembly that will draft a constitution before Namibia becomes independent next year.
 
Majority for Swapo Expected
Swapo is expected to win a majority of the ballots cast by 700,000 registered voters, but it is uncertain whether it will get the two-thirds necessary to let it to impose its own constitution.
As with political campaigns elsewhere, some of Mr. Nujoma's assertions would be challenged by the other parties, not to mention the South African authorities.
Swapo's guerrillas, who operated from bases in Angola, never established a permanent foothold in Namibia because of interdiction by the South African-led security forces. And the political settlement that linked Namibian independence to the withdrawal of Cuban forces from Angola, where they have been supporting a pro-Soviet Government against a South African-supported insurgency, was reached last December by Angola, Cuba and South Africa with the mediation of the United States. Swapo was not given a voice in the settlement.
''Swapo waged the struggle for the last 23 years against the Boers,'' Mr. Nujoma said, referring to the Afrikaners, South Africa's dominant white ethnic group. ''Swapo stood firm and said 435 is the only solution to bring about peace in this country,''
 
Drew World Attention
Resolution 435 is the document endorsed by the United Nations Security Council spelling out the terms for Namibian independence.
Mr. Nujoma took credit for mobilizing world opinion against South Africa's occupation of Namibia and paid emotional tribute to the United Nations Transitional Assistance Group for its role in supervising the transition.
Mr. Nujoma's overwhelmingly black audience was decked out in the blue, red and green colors of Swapo, and many wore its campaign badges.
With loyalties dividing largely along ethnic lines - Swapo's roots lie in the Ovambo majority - there seem to be remarkably few undecided voters as the campaign winds down.
 
Controversy Over Broadcasts
Controversies over Swapo's alleged mistreatment of dissidents in exile and ill-fated infiltration of guerrillas into the country in April were overtaken by a propaganda windfall last week.
South Africa put its security forces in the region on the alert as Foreign Minister Roelof F. Botha accused Swapo of infiltrating hundreds more insurgents into northern Namibia.
Mr. Botha cited the interception of radio messages he said had been broadcast by United Nations posts monitoring the border area. The United Nations group rejected the messages as forgeries, and Mr. Botha later conceded that there was no evidence to show that they were genuine.
Mr. Botha flew to Windhoek yesterday to discuss the matter with the United Nations representative and South Africa's Administrator General.

GRAPHIC: Map of Namibia showing location of Gobabis (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NAMIBIA (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (97%); WESTERN AFRICA (93%); AFRICA (93%); ANGOLA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH AFRICAN BANK OF ATHENS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN EXPRESS AIRWAYS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN STEVEDORES LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN BELTING LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN BIAS METALS & PLASTICS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN PETROLEUM INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN RAIL COMMUTER CORP (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN FINE WORSTEDS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN MOTOR CORP LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN RESERVE BANK (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL LIFE ASSURANCE CO (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN CLOTHING INDUSTRIES (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN SUGAR ASSOCIATION (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN EAGLE INSURANCE CO LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN HOSIERY CO LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN BANK NOTE CO LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRUGGISTS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN MICRO-ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN CUT GLASS MANUFACTURING PTY LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN NYLON SPINNERS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN PRESERVING LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN BROADCASTING CORP (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRIED FRUIT CO-OPERATIVE LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN FORESTRY CO LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN TIOXIDE LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN BREWERIES LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN CAP MANUFACTURERS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN FLOCK LTD (92%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH-WEST AFRICA PEOPLE'S ORGANIZATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NAMIBIA; GOBABIS (NAMIBIA)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (65%); ETHNICITY (61%); 

PERSON: WREN, CHRISTOPHER S; NUJOMA, SAM SAM NUJOMA (94%); 



153 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: Legislation On Buyouts Is Unlikely

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
After expressing intense interest early this year in regulating leveraged buyouts and their financial underpinning, high-risk, high-yield ''junk bonds,'' Congress's attention has waned. The lawmakers lost enthusiasm in part because the market for such transactions has weakened, but for political reasons as well.
Within the Administration, concern about the economic and social costs of rapidly growing corporate debt has been outweighed by the antipathy of top officials toward Government regulation of the markets. Without a change of heart in the Administration, Congress seems unlikely to move further.
In a leveraged buyout, the hottest ticket on Wall Street through most of the 1980's, a group of investors using borrowed money, generally acquired by issuing high-yielding ''junk bonds'' to investors, buys the controlling stock of a company, often in cooperation with its top managers. 
Early this year, during a flurry of hearings by several Congressional committees, one economist after another warned that such transactions threatened to unbalance the nation's corporate structure and could lead to a raft of bankruptcies in the event of a recession.
 
'Significant Dangers' Cited
For example, Henry Kaufman, the Wall Street economist and consultant whose views are valued on Capitol Hill, told one committee that leveraged buyouts posed ''significant dangers to the economic and financial well-being of this country.''
The legislators became concerned in part because they feared that the companies involved might be unable to make debt payments in a recession or a business slump. They also worried that fear of being taken over would cause managers to focus only on short-term profits and that, in the event of a buyout, businesses would close or relocate and constituents' jobs would be lost.
But in the end, Congress failed to act this year, largely for these reasons:
* Many lawmakers believe the markets are correcting the problems on their own, as several buyout deals have faltered since spring and investments in junk bonds have dwindled.
* Despite a nearly universal view that the tax code unfairly rewards borrowing and penalizes investments in stock, neither the legislators nor their expert staffs could devise a correction that would not cause new and probably more serious problems.
* Lawmakers were cowed by the possibility that the stock market would plunge and that they would be blamed as they were in 1987, when approval by the House Ways and Means Committee, without debate, of a measure that would have limited some tax advantages of leveraged buyouts was seen by some as a reason for the October market crash.
* Buyout deal makers lobbied heavily against further regulation and contributed generously to political campaigns, while no forceful lobby arose on the other side.
* The most influential legislators became absorbed with other issues, including capital gains taxes, air pollution and public disclosure of takeover deals. Elsewhere in the capital, the Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating who issues, buys and defaults on junk bonds, officials said, but stiff new regulations do not seem to be in the offing.
The new S.E.C. chairman, Richard C. Breeden, has declined to take a strong position on the question of leveraged buyouts. And Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, who has expressed concern in the past about leveraged buyouts, told a Senate subcommittee recently that he expected them to become ''a thing of the past.'' He urged Congress to ''see what the market has produced as a cure'' before taking action.
 
'I Have Not Given Up'
Representative Bill Gradison of Ohio, a senior Republican on the Ways and Means Committee, reflected the view of most lawmakers. ''We won't move in this area without active involvement by the Administration,'' he said.
Some strong opponents of leveraged buyouts are determined to press their case again next year. ''I have not given up,'' said Representative Byron L. Dorgan, a North Dakota Democrat. ''This is a very troublesome problem, and eventually we're going to have to deal with it.''
But Mr. Dorgan agreed that he was unlikely to succeed as long as the Bush Administration was so adamantly opposed to action in this area.
Congress did take some minor steps this year, none of which is likely to have a significant effect on leveraged buyouts. The law to rescue failed savings and loan institutions prohibits such institutions from investing in junk bonds. The overall budget bill now before a House-Senate conference, would limit interest deductions for a particular kind of junk bond, similar to a zero-coupon bond.
In addition, the House last week passed a bill that would require the Secretary of Transportation to reject any airline buyout that he found to be contrary to the public interest because it would affect safety, hinder competition, cost jobs or result in foreign control of the carrier.
 
Modest Measures Pending
A similar measure has been approved by a Senate committee. But Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner has opposed the legislation, and President Bush might veto it. Even if it becomes law, experts believe the measure would have little effect, given Mr. Skinner's opposition.
Other modest measures that may be enacted this year would restrict certain pension money from being invested in junk bonds and limit leveraged buyout companies from collecting refunds of back taxes because of operating losses resulting from some debt payments.
Corporate restructuring in general and leveraged buyouts in particular have shaken American business in recent years. According to the Treasury, the value of debt-financed takeovers was $160 billion from 1983 to 1988, 15 times their value in the previous five years. Although Congress periodically debated the trend, it was not until the biggest leveraged buyout ever, the $25 billion RJR Nabisco Inc. deal at the start of this year, that prominent lawmakers expressed a determination to act.
 
'Congress Went Galloping'
''After RJR Nabisco, Congress went galloping,'' said Bartlett Naylor, a former staff assistant on the Senate Banking Committee and now a senior analyst at the Investor Responsibility Research Center. ''Congress went galloping. That one seemed to be an awful expression of greed.'' For example, Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company, the firm that put together the deal to buy RJR Nabisco, made $75 million in fees on the deal, almost as much as its stake in the investment pool that bought the company.
Early this year, Jim Wright, then Speaker of the House, called together a half dozen of the most influential House committee chairmen and urged them to begin work on legislation to limit leveraged buyouts and the junk bonds that finance them.
At first, the new Bush Administration did not discourage the lawmakers. At a news conference a week before his inauguration, Mr. Bush suggested that changes in the tax laws governing such deals might be needed, and Mr. Brady worried that too much of the country's talent and resources were wasted on ''financial engineering.''
Congress began work on two fronts, taxes and regulation.
 
Twice-Taxed Dividends
On taxes, politicians and academic experts agree that the law's favorable treatment of debt and unfavorable treatment of equity are engines that propel leveraged buyouts and ought to be corrected.
Companies financed with borrowed money can deduct the interest payments they make to bondholders and other creditors. But companies financed with equity, or stock, cannot deduct their dividend payments. The dividends are, in effect, taxed twice: once when they are counted in the profits on which corporate taxes are based and again when they are counted as income to stockholders.
''From a tax-policy standpoint, anyone would say that the right policy is to have a level playing field for debt and equity,'' said Robert J. Leonard, chief counsel of the Ways and Means Committee and one of the top tax experts among Congressional staff members.
There were large obstacles, however, to policies that sought to correct the problem.
Taxing debt would put American investors at a serious competitive disadvantage with those from abroad, where interest payments are generally deductible. Moreover, since most corporate borrowing is an essential business expense unrelated to takeovers, a change in the tax law to limit junk bonds would require different treatment for different forms of debt. ''We could not find a way to attack the cancer cells without damaging the healthy ones,'' a Congressional tax specialist said.
 
No Political Constituency
On the other hand, allowing deductions for dividend payments could cost the Treasury as much as $50 billion a year in lost revenue, a sum the Government cannot afford. Moreover, there is hardly a political constituency for such a move. Most corporate executives oppose dividend deductions, believing they would only increase pressure on them to pay higher dividends and not allow the untaxed profits to be used for new investment.
As for increased regulation, Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee's finance subcommittee, has been working most of the year on legislation to require more public disclosure about takeover deals and to guarantee that buyers have their financing in order before a tender offer is made.
But when Washington's attention to takeovers began to flag, Mr. Markey turned his primary focus to other legislation dealing with regulation of the stock and commodity markets that he thought more likely to become law. No bill on buyouts has been introduced.
And the Bush Administration has become increasingly hostile to Congressional action in this area. Earlier this year, Transportation Secretary Skinner said he wanted the authority to review takeovers in the airline industry to make certain the buyers' heavy debts would not affect the safety of air travel. Recently, however, the Secretary has opposed such legislation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES LEGISLATION (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (75%); APPROVALS (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (68%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E HENRY KAUFMAN (55%); 



154 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Paper Companies Contemplate Hard Times

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
While the Great Northern Nekoosa Corporation contemplates a $3.1 billion takeover bid from the Georgia Pacific Corporation, other paper- products companies are wrestling with the question of whether, given the downturn expected in the industry during the next year, this is a good time to acquire a paper company.
Industry analysts, who generally predict that growing capacity will outstrip demand within the next year, forecast that paper prices will tumble in the next two years, making paper companies less expensive to buy. They also predict that in an industry where few companies have more than a 15 to 20 percent market share in any product, a weakening of the market will compel producers to achieve economies of scale through acquisition.
 
Few Predictions
For the moment, at least, there are few predictions about who would acquire whom. But several analysts contend that the largest players in the industry - International Paper, Kimberly-Clark, Scott Paper and James River, for example - are the most likely to take on acquisitions to solidify their positions in the market. 
The difficulty in predicting acquisition targets, analysts say, stems from the high profitability of nearly all the players in the industry during the last two years. Some, however, consider likely targets to be those whose value is tied more to papermaking machinery than to the timber they own: Champion International, Boise Cascade, Temple-Inland, Union Camp, and Chesapeake, for example.
The bid last week by Georgia Pacific to acquire Great Northern, the nation's ninth-largest producer of paper products, has shattered the unofficial rules of cordiality that have for years governed takeovers in the industry. American paper companies have tended to acquire their competitors only to act as a white knight, thwarting a hostile bid.
Many analysts now see the rules changing dramatically, suggesting the emergence of paper and forest products companies like Weyerhaeuser, Abitibi-Price, and International Paper as potential bidders for Great Northern. Jefferson Smurfit, and Champion International are also mentioned.
 
Not If, but When
''I think there will be further consolidation in the industry,'' said Robert Schneider, a paper industry analyst with Duff & Phelps Inc. in Chicago. ''It's not a question of if, but of when and who.''
The outlook for the next few years seems bleak after the giddy growth in profitability that characterized the last two years. Paper demand has outstripped supply, causing prices in the industry to increase. Industry earnings, also fueled by the strong exports brought on by a weaker dollar, soared to a record $8.1 billion last year, a 45 percent increase from 1987.
But the growth rate is slackening, with some analysts predicting that industry earnings will increase only 5 percent this year, to $8.5 billion. And analysts predict that earnings will decline 20 percent next year, to $6.8 billion, and another 25 percent in 1991, to $5.1 billion.
At the same time, the industry spent heavily on new equipment, causing capacity to rise dramatically. The industry, which raised capacity by 1.6 percent in 1985, will add nearly 3 percent to capacity this year. All of that comes at a time when demand has grown at only better than half that percentage.
''The amount of capacity that will be added in the period between 1987 and 1991 will be the greatest amount ever in the United States,'' said Sherman Choa, an analyst with Salomon Brothers. ''Capacity will increase by 3.7 percent in 1991, which means that the industry is adding capacity faster than likely demand growth.''
 
Operating Rates Down
Operating rates - considered by many to be the key barometer of the industry's health-have dropped below 93 percent, which analysts describe as evidence that a buyer's market is emerging. According to the American Paper Institute, operating rates in the nation's paper mills are now about 92 percent, down from an average 95 percent last year.
''And looking forward into next year, we look for operating rates to decline more,'' Mr. Choa said. ''That means that prices will drop, and the seller's market we've seen over the last few years will come to an end.''
Paper company executives, while they foresee more difficult times, say they will not be particularly severe. ''We expect slower growth, but I don't expect that we'll fall off a cliff,'' said Burnell R. Roberts, chairman of the Mead Corporation, the nation's sixth-largest paper producer. ''Of course, capacity additions will have an impact.''
Many paper company executives are beginning to see themselves as potential acquisition targets. Several industry officials, who asked not to be identified, said the bid by Georgia Pacific signaled a more aggressive acquisition posture in the industry.
The signs of weakness in some products are becoming clear. Prices of newsprint have fallen precipitously, to $650 a metric ton, down 20 percent from a year ago. A projected addition of two million tons of capacity scheduled for next year, about 12 percent, will further erode prices, analysts say.
No one company controls a dominant position in any of the product areas. But a combination of Great Northern and Georgia Pacific would make the combined company the largest producer of linerboard and a rival to International Paper in uncoated papers.
''Many other companies will have to be concerned about new and vigorous competition in market pulp, linerboard and uncoated paper,'' said Gary Palmero, an industry analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. ''In downturns, that creates competitive pressure. It has existed before, but this time I think the response of the companies will be different.''

GRAPHIC: graphs of U.S. paper industry's capacity and operating rates from '85 to '89 (Source: Solomon Bros.; American Paper Insitute) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KMB (NYSE) (90%); SKG (LSE) (58%); RFP (TSX) (58%); RFP (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (94%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (94%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (94%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (90%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (58%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322219 OTHER PAPERBOARD CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2631 PAPERBOARD MILLS (58%); NAICS322122 NEWSPRINT MILLS (58%); SIC2421 SAWMILLS & PLANING MILLS, GENERAL (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (94%); GREAT NORTHERN NEKOOSA CORP (93%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (90%); SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP PLC (58%); RESOLUTE FOREST PRODUCTS INC (58%); TEMPLE-INLAND INC (54%); CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP (54%); 

SUBJECT: PAPER AND PULP; FORECASTS PAPER & PACKAGING (94%); PAPER MFG (94%); PAPER MILLS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P



155 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 11, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Victory Gratifies Colorado

BYLINE: By MALCOLM MORAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOULDER, Colo., Nov. 5

 BODY:
The goal posts at Folsom Field had been adjusted so they would collapse under the weight of delirium. The team had been working toward this moment for years, since Bill McCartney became the coach in 1982 after the brief and economically chaotic Chuck Fairbanks era came to a close.
But when the moment arrived Saturday afternoon, after Nebraska's desperation last-second heave had fallen to the ground in the end zone, no one could have been prepared fully for what would happen next.
In another place, at another time, the outpouring of affection symbolized by the sudden disappearance of two goal posts would be little more than the climax of a memorable afternoon. 
 
Gratifying Sight for Team
But here, in a community that not long ago had an adversarial relationship with its football team as a result of the repeated legal problems of some of its members, on a campus where some players once preferred to play on the road, the sight of thousands of fans on the field, and the sounds of many still shouting hours later, completed a transformation in the perception of a team by its town.
''I think they can be nothing but proud of us now,'' said J. J. Flannigan, the University of Colorado's senior tailback.
Flannigan scored two touchdowns in the 27-21 victory, which brought the Buffaloes closer to a Big Eight Conference championship and the anticipated Orange Bowl matchup against Notre Dame.
In March 1988, a report by the campus police declared that dormitory residents on the Colorado campus feared that ''the football players would now be free to intimidate and assault them with no fear of legal repercussions.'' Incidents of vandalism, assault and robbery had disrupted life on the campus.
 
Older Players Take Charge
Flannigan had been one of the players involved in an incident; on Saturday, after each carry, thousands shouted his name in celebration.
In a meeting before the season, senior members of the team decided that the repeated incidents reflected a lack of discipline that also extended to practices and games. Selfishness became a team issue. Demands were made. Challenges were issued. Players were asked if they would be willing to sacrifice personal statistics if the result led to a greater good.
''That's what we've been saying all year,'' said Bill Coleman, a senior offensive tackle. ''It's no longer, 'If I have a good game, maybe I can be all-Big 8 or I can be all-American.' Now it's 'I have to have a good game if we are going to win.' ''
''We pulled together,'' Flannigan added. ''We said, 'No more.' There are harsh punishments. The first time something happens, you're out for a game. If it's your second time, you're off the team.''
 
Putting Words Into Practice
Flannigan's first touchdown was perhaps the play that best illustrated the team concept. It came on the third Colorado possession of the game, after an early Nebraska interception and a 51-yard screen pass to Bryan Carpenter shocked the crowd on the first Husker play from scrimmage.
From the Colorado 30, Darian Hagan, the sophomore quarterback, started an option run to the left, exploited the opening between two defenders, and turned upfield. As he reached the Nebraska 40, after a 30-yard gain, a Husker defender was closing in. Flannigan stayed just behind his teammate.
''You have to stay with him all the time,'' Flannigan said. ''He saw me one time and didn't pitch it. So I knew he was going to pitch it any time.''
In full stride, Hagan lateraled the ball to his left toward Flannigan, who went up the sideline for a 70-yard touchdown. Flannigan was credited with all 70 yards under the statistical guidelines, but everyone knew who had created the play.
Now the Buffaloes are in position to win their first outright conference championship since 1961. And Notre Dame, which tied a school record with its 21st consecutive victory by defeating Navy, 41-0, could combine with Colorado to create the fourth bowl-game matchup of undefeated, untied teams in four seasons.

GRAPHIC: photo of game between Nebraska and Colorado (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (72%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (72%); BIG EIGHT ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (54%); BIG EIGHT ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COLLEGE ATHLETICS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (73%); STUDENT HOUSING (70%); CAMPUS SECURITY (69%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (68%); VANDALISM (66%); 

PERSON: MORAN, MALCOLM



156 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
2-Summit Plan Reflects the Bush Style of Diplomacy: Intense and Personal

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5

 BODY:
One of President Bush's favorite expressions is a leftover bit of slang from the 1960's. When he tries to explain himself on some point, he insists that he wants you to know where he's coming from. And, in turn, he wants to know where you're coming from.
The phrase has now entered the official argot of the White House. When Administration officials explain the ''Big Summit'' and ''Little Summit'' with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union, they say Mr. Bush wanted a preliminary session of ''information without protocol.''
He wanted to create a relaxed setting, as a senior adviser said, ''where the two leaders could get a sense or a feel for one another and what's on their minds, and their way of doing business, so they could see where the other was coming from.'' 
Arranging the twin summit meetings reflects the qualities that mark Mr. Bush's foreign policy. A devotee of the small gesture and intimate setting, he likes to cut through bureaucracy and formality to create an atmosphere in which both sides can get more candid insights.
Mr. Bush, his advisers say, wants to ask Mr. Gorbachev questions like: ''Where do you think things are going, what are your plans down the road, what are the rough spots, what is your future?'' But that is the atmosphere he prefers in making policy, too - bypassing the screening process of lower-level officials and holding information among a tight group. It can help him, as it did in the hostage crisis last summer, and it can hurt him, as it did in the failed Panama coup last month.
''He likes to talk to people in the least constrained environment possible, because he knows that the same words in a different setting can have a different impact,'' said Mr. Bush's chief of staff, John H. Sununu, who was at Camp David Saturday with Mr. Bush planning the December session in the Mediterranean.
Mr. Bush has faith in his ability to look someone in the eye and judge things ''first hand.'' He has a spymaster's passion for secrecy and keeping information among a tight group of aides, endowing diplomatic initiatives and foreign policy crises with the hide-and-seek aura of a C.I.A. operation.
In a radio interview with ABC News broadcast Saturday, Mr. Bush was asked what was the most satisfying accomplishment of his 10 months in office. The former Director of Central Intelligence said keeping the news of the ''Little Summit'' confidential nearly four months ''brought some satisfaction to me.''
 
Why the Summit Secrecy
He hates unapproved disclosures and loves to spring stories on an unsuspecting press corps. He has made it a cardinal rule that his Administration not conduct ''diplomacy on the front page.'' He insisted on secrecy about the summit arrangements because he did not want to be faulted if it fell through and the Soviets had said the Americans could never keep such a negotiation secret for any length of time.
''I think there may have been a little chiding from the Soviets that 'You can't keep this a secret, America can never do that,' '' said Marlin Fitzwater, the Presidential press secretary, one of a handful of aides who knew about the plan. It was considered miraculous here that the secrecy held for so long. Mr. Bush was furious when someone in the Administration leaked the story to The Washington Post the day before the announcement.
 
'Discipline and Steel Will'
Mr. Fitzwater said Mr. Bush shrugged off suggestions that, given his initiative to get to know Mr. Gorbachev better, he was taking unnecessary heat for timidity toward cataclysmic changes in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. ''We could have said back in July that we were getting ready to do something, and that probably would have headed off the timid stuff,'' Mr. Fitzwater said. ''But the President has this kind of discipline and steel will to say, 'I know what I'm doing. Let them throw the rocks at me.' ''
But as a National Security Council review indicated after the embarrassing failed Panamanian coup, the style on foreign affairs that Mr. Bush may have developed in his year at the C.I.A. under Gerald R. Ford could be a handicap in the Oval Office.
He compartmentalizes information, taking it from many directions but sharing it with few people. He likes unfiltered information straight from the field instead of having the contradictions ironed out by lower-level specialists. Administration officials said the most extensive use ever had been made of specially designed communciations networks, put in place by the National Security Agency, that allow instant access to intelligence reporting.
''He's turned the Oval Office into 'Mission Impossible,' '' said a top Republican official with close ties to the White House. ''
In many ways, the handling of the summit plan bore all the earmarks of a classic intelligence operation, allowing reporters and the public to draw misleading and incorrect conclusions based on hints and statements that were deliberately ambiguous.
In essense, Mr. Bush and his advisers created a fog of public uncertainty about the course of United States-Soviet relations when there was in fact private certainty.
Even as senior Administration officials like Vice President Dan Quayle and Robert M. Gates, the deputy national security adviser, were publicly suggesting that Mr. Gorbachev's chances of succeeding were dim, and giving the impression that there was division over how to deal with the Soviet Union - in fact, there was a behind-the-scenes unanimity on a policy moving in a clear and opposite direction.
 
Parties, Picnics and the Mets
If the President's penchant for secrecy in foreign policy was shaped by his time at the C.I.A., his penchant for doing business in informal settings was influenced by his two years at the United Nations.
In the early 1970's when he was the United States representative at the United Nations, Mr. Bush entertained diplomats extensively with his wife, Barbara - cocktail parties in their apartment in the Waldorf, picnics at the compound in Connecticut, expeditions of bewildered diplomats who had never seen American baseball to night games at Shea Stadium to watch the Mets, in which his uncle, Herbert Walker, owned a part interest.
Mr. Bush said as he left the United Nations post that he had learned the lesson that it is essential to look at a problem from the opponent's point of view. ''A sympathetic understanding,'' he said, ''is a very important part of the process of establishing a foreign policy.''
Mr. Fitzwater said that Mr. Bush ''learned to exploit the social aspect of his job as U.N. Ambassador so he could open up a lot of different lines of communication and channels of information.''
 
Intensely Personal Diplomacy
The press secretary said Mr. Bush maintained the same method - intensely personal diplomacy - as Vice President, traveling extensively abroad and meeting as many officials in each country as he could, heads of state to foreign ministers to ambassadors to defense ministers.
Mr. Bush ''became a separate conduit,'' Mr. Fitzwater said, in addition to the State Department, which heads of state for other governments could use ''to get messages to President Reagan.''
''As President, Mr. Bush essentially conducts himself on foreign affairs in the same way in terms of maintaining these kinds of personal channels of communication and diplomacy,'' the adviser added. ''That's why he had 18 bilaterals as soon as he landed on his trip to Asia.''
President Bush turned etiquette topsy-turvy by calling world leaders, including Mr. Gorbachev, to talk about his new position; it was customary to wait until leaders called him.
He made an intense round of personal calls in the hostage crisis of the summer, to world leaders and contacts from his days at the United Nations and as Vice President. Aides say he still picks up the phone to make more casual calls. Last week, he called Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan to congratulate her on winning a vote of confidence.
 
Mubarak Saw the Orioles
He has made outings like the one to the Mets a hallmark of his Presidency. He took President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt to a Baltimore Orioles game, where he was announced as a special guest to the bemusement of the sports fans. He took Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir of Israel to the Air and Space Museum to see the movie ''To Fly.''
As weekend guests at his Kennebunkport, Me., home, he has entertained President Francois Mitterrand of France, Prime Minister Poul Schluter of Denmark and Prime Minister Brian Mulroney of Canada.
''Whether he is taking Mubarak to the ball game or taking King Hussein down the river from Mount Vernon on a boat,'' Mr. Sununu said, ''each expedition is designed to create an atmosphere.'' Western leaders credited Mr. Bush's successful appearance at the Paris economic summit to the rapport the stiff and elegant Mr. Mitterrand forged at Kennebunkport with the informal Mr. Bush.
When Mr. Bush told his national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d last July in Paris that he wanted a conversation with Mr. Gorbachev without checklists or agendas, Mr. Scowcroft warned that it would be risky to meet without a structure or without formal results in the way of communiques or accords.
 
Some Have Reservations
Indeed, White House officials are still wary that in settings designed to promote cozy exchanges, the President could be predisposed to feel warm toward a leader who did not merit it. In the case of Mr. Gorbachev, who has a proclivity for surprises, Mr. Bush could be put on the defensive by an unexpected Soviet gambit designed to take advantage of the scheduling vacuum of an unstructured meeting.
But he was determined to do his diplomacy en famille, and he, Mr. Baker and Mr. Scowcroft devised the two-summit approach. So, even though those who know Mr. Gorbachev say he is all business and not the sort who likes to ''put his feet up,'' the two will have, on adjoining Soviet and United States battleships, ''A Mediterranean Moment.''
''It will be informal but not too informal,'' Mr. Fitzwater said. ''No shuffleboard or volleyball.''

GRAPHIC: Phot of Presidents Bush and Francois Mitterrand in May near Mr. Bush's weekend home in Kennebunkport, Me. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (61%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ESPIONAGE (64%); HOSTAGE TAKING (63%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (63%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



157 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 13, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Jerome Robbins Is Resigning As Co-Director of City Ballet

BYLINE: By ANNA KISSELGOFF

 BODY:
Jerome Robbins, whose highly unusual and diverse works for the New York City Ballet sealed his reputation as one of the 20th century's great choreographers, will resign on Jan. 1 as co-director of the City Ballet to pursue projects in several fields, the company announced yesterday.
Nonetheless, Mr. Robbins said, ''I will be around for a couple of more seasons'' at the City Ballet, where he will soon begin rehearsing the dancers for a retrospective of the ballets he has created since 1944. The company will present a Robbins festival at the New York State Theater in the spring.
Mr. Robbins, who was 71 years old on Oct. 11, then plans to continue writing his memoirs and to develop his ideas for an autobiographical theater piece.
''It's important at my age to do other things,'' he said in New York just before leaving for the premiere yesterday of the Paris Opera Ballet's production of his 1970 ballet ''In the Night.'' ''I'm resigning from the New York City Ballet; I'm not retiring from the field.'' The choreographer spent last month in Paris, rehearsing the French dancers. 
 
Martins Alone at the Top
Mr. Robbins's resignation now leaves the City Ballet's other co-director, Peter Martins, for the first time with ultimate responsibility for the 41-year-old company's artistic policy. Lincoln Kirstein, the City Ballet's co-founder with George Balanchine, resigned as general director at the age of 82 on Sept. 12.
Mr. Robbins, in fact, has reduced his involvement with the City Ballet since the summer of 1988, when he began work on ''Jerome Robbins's Broadway.'' His resignation is thus not expected to have any immediate effect on the City Ballet's policies, although Mr. Martins's artistic control has obviously been consolidated.
Both Mr. Robbins and Mr. Martins - who is 43 and a former principal dancer in the company - were named co-directors with the joint title of balletmaster in chief shortly before Balanchine died on April 30, 1983. Mr. Martins, who joined the City Ballet in 1970, has essentially been in charge of day-to-day operations. Mr. Robbins's prestige as a choreographer and his continued creativity -he has choreographed nine new ballets since 1983 - allowed him to focus on his own works inside the company and more general policy.
The two men did not always see eye to eye on every issue: Mr. Robbins, for example, declined to create new works for the company's 1988 American Music Festival, which was conceived by Mr. Martins. But they generally worked in tandem and the excellence of the company's dancing has been maintained.
In commenting on Mr. Robbins's retirement, Mr. Martins said that the choreographer ''has played a monumental role in shaping the artistic esthetic of this company,'' and that ''we shall always welcome him back.''
 
The Strain of a Broadway Show
In April, Mr. Robbins cited the ''enormous toll'' of more than 23 weeks of rehearsals on ''Jerome Robbins's Broadway,'' the anthology of excerpts from musicals that he had directed or choreographed, and announced that he was taking a leave of absence from the City Ballet. The show opened in February, and Mr. Robbins continues to audition new cast members personally.
The choreographer has been associated with the City Ballet for 40 years. Balanchine invited him to join as a dancer and choreographer in 1949 and made him the company's associate director the same year.
Explaining why he chose to resign at this time, Mr. Robbins said in a statement: ''I joined the New York City Ballet in 1949 for a single purpose: To work for and with George Balanchine. I felt blessed by working in shared intimacy with Mr. Balanchine and thrilled to be part of the growth and development of the company.
''His death six years ago was traumatic to all of us and clearly signaled the end of an era. It was imperative to help the company deal with its loss, heal its wounds and find a directional movement without Mr. B's presence. I feel now that the transition has taken place, closing that period. The company is strong, dancing the repertory with ever extending artistry and with deep confidence and commitment. I relinquish my position with undiminished love for the superb dancers.''
Mr. Robbins said he was ''deeply grateful'' to the staff and to ''Lincoln Kirstein, of course, for everything.''
 
What Next? 'Europe Beckons'
In addition to the theater piece and his autobiography, Mr. Robbins said that ''Europe beckons with invitations to direct operas and stage ballets there,'' and that ''this does not preclude the possibility of my working with the New York City Ballet on new ballets in the future.''
Speaking more informally in an interview, Mr. Robbins said that directing any other company was of no interest to him.
''No,'' he declared emphatically when asked if he would consider becoming artistic director of American Ballet Theater. Mikhail Baryshnikov left that post in September.
As for the Paris Opera Ballet, where there are reports that Rudolf Nureyev might be replaced as artistic director, Mr. Robbins replied with a reference to the working conditions: ''I would only wish that on my worst enemy - to become director of the Paris Opera Ballet as it is now organized. And that has nothing to do with the dancers.''
More generally, he added: ''I have no great ambitions to babysit a board, temperamental dancers, feisty unions and economic pressures. I've seen many creative people sink under these burdens. I'm essentially a choreographer. That's my talent and I'd like to save my juices for that.''
 
No Desire for His Own Troupe
Mr. Robbins left the City Ballet between 1959 and 1969 to devote more time to Broadway, experimental theater and the only troupe he ever headed, Ballets: U.S.A. The group existed from 1958 to 1962, when it disbanded.
''I could have had a company of my own easily anytime,'' he said. ''But I felt New York City Ballet took care of all my problems and gave me advantages.''
The attraction was that ''with Mr. Balanchine, there was a concentration on dance'' as a whole rather than on ''personalized sectors or little kingdoms,'' as he felt had been the case at American Ballet Theater. Choreographers were concerned only with their own works there, he said. Mr. Robbins created his first ballet, ''Fancy Free,'' in 1944 while a dancer at Ballet Theater.
When he joined the City Ballet, Balanchine personally went out and bought masks for Mr. Robbins's first work for the company, ''The Guests.'' ''What was on the table was dancing, not whether it was his ballet or my ballet,'' Mr. Robbins said. Balanchine allowed him an individual voice, and no Robbins ballet ever resembled one done by Balanchine.
 
Balanchine a Guide, Not a Pattern
Mr. Robbins said Balanchine's work should serve ''as an example of what a ballet should be,'' but it should not be imitated. The reason ''we don't have any choreographers today is that they're copying the latest dress style and following a pattern instead of making it organic to themselves,'' he said.
Balanchine's lasting legacy is present in the quality of his ballets, Mr. Robbins continued, and this is transmitted to the dancers producing a ''specialness that no other company has.'' This was not idle praise in his view but a professional assessment of the City Ballet dancers. ''The specialness comes from the training the dancers get by dancing and experiencing Balanchine ballets,'' he said. ''It is the nobleness of what it is to dance ballet and to dance those ballets.''
Turning to more immediate concerns, he said that Edward Villella, now director of the Miami City Ballet, had agreed to return for the Robbins retrospective at City Ballet. He will appear in the role he created in the 1972 ''Watermill.'' Mr. Martins has suggested that Dance Theater of Harlem and Ballet Theater, which perform Robbins works that are not in the City Ballet repertory, be invited to take part in the Robbins festival.
 
Reticence on His Projects
Mr. Robbins was more reluctant to be precise about his other projects. ''I've been working on a theater piece for 10 years or so,'' he said. ''It comes out of my own experience.''
Asked if he was now writing his autobiography, he grinned and said, ''Yeah.'' Every day? ''Not at all, in bits and spurts,'' he replied. ''When I finish I'll finish.''
Mr. Robbins also said he had ''an interesting offer from an opera company in Europe to direct an opera I've been wanting to do,'' but declined to name the company.
Summing up, he said: ''It's time to shift gears. There were times 15 years ago when I didn't think I would ever do another ballet. I never knew 'Fiddler on the Roof' was going to be my last musical for 20 years. You never know when you're not going to do anymore.''
And then Mr. Robbins added, ''I guess I'm what you'd call a freelance choreographer.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Jerome Robbins

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY BALLET

SUBJECT: DANCING; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS BALLET (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); MUSIC (78%); FESTIVALS (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); 

PERSON: KISSELGOFF, ANNA; ROBBINS, JEROME JEROME ROBBINS (97%); PETER MARTINS (54%); LINCOLN EDWARD KIRSTEIN (54%); 



158 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: How Really to Cut Down Illegal Immigration

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your front-page report Oct. 9 on continuing heavy illegal immmigration despite the Immigration Reform and Control Act enacted in 1986 highlights the defects of that act. As forewarned by some of us who were consultants to the select commission and the legislators, undocumented entries cannot be controlled and halted by a simple procedure on the ''demand'' side, namely by requiring employers to check legal-residence documents for all new hires.
Apparently, because fraudulent documents can be obtained by workers and accepted by employers, only a portion of jobs for illegals has ''dried up.'' Consequently, there is little discouragement to surreptitious entries and little pressure to return home. You report that thousands continue to enter the country illegally every day; Immigration and Naturalization Service data for the first six months of fiscal 1989 suggest about 800,000 a year are apprehended for illegal entries across the borders. To that, add overstayers on visitor visas. 
These trends are more ominous than you indicate. For one thing, the diversion of some good jobs away from illegal aliens is not only pushing some migrants into sweatshop work at substandard wages and conditions, but it may also drive others into crime: burglaries, muggings, drug dealing. Furthermore, every new inflow adds to the burdens on local communities and social infrastructure. Meanwhile the pressures to migrate from Mexico, Central and South America, Southeast Asia and other lands are intensifying, not only because of poverty but also economic stagflation, foreign-debt burdens, political and military upheavals, increased mobility, organized border crossing and highly profitable drug smuggling.
The promising signs immigration officials cite to allay criticism come down at best to a vaunted decrease in apprehensions of about 55 percent for 1989 compared with 1986. But the 1986 figure represents a rise in crossings to beat the passage of the new act and perhaps to qualify for ''amnesty.'' Apprehensions have surged in recent months, so the estimated annual rate is not far from mid-80's figures.
Reconsidering the 1986 act, we might ask, Why not adopt a real, fake-proof identification card (with picture, fingerprint, height and weight) for all legal residents? The usual protests about invasion of privacy sound increasingly hollow.
If we are not prepared to apply massive enforcement - a Berlin Wall at the borders and immigration agents in every business and tourist circuit - nor to spend huge sums on the economic development of Mexico and other countries, we must look for other approaches.
One of these is to dry up the jobs for illegal aliens by pre-empting them with legally admitted temporary workers. This would draw on our relatively narrow but longstanding and successful experience in this country with H-2 workers, and would extend to urban jobs the H-2 provisions for farm labor scarcities as already written into the immigration act. These workers would come in varying numbers, for variable periods, as needed, but without dependents. Repatriation would be insured by government-to-government arrangements for the next cohort, and by withholding part of their earnings until their return, providing a lump sum of savings to spend or invest at home.
 
EDWIN P. REUBENS
New York, Oct. 10, 1989
 The writer is an emeritus professor of economics at the City College of New York.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (52%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (56%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); SWEATSHOPS (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BURGLARY (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FARM LABOR (73%); STATISTICS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); EVIDENCE (71%); FINGERPRINTING (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); 



159 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Baltic States Should Have Independence

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your observation that the Baltic republics, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, ''are far from becoming economically viable in the next few years'' (''A Sound Course on the Baltics,'' editorial, Oct. 21) applies more to the Soviet Union than to the Baltic states. The three republics, although producing only 4 percent of the Soviet gross national product, account for 12 percent of Soviet consumer-goods production. The economies of these three are well diversified in sharp contrast to the monocultures the central government in Moscow forced on many other areas. In addition, about 25 percent of Soviet trade flows through the Baltic states, a source of substantial income even now. 
The three republics know that the Soviet Union will always be their major trade partner. But since Moscow cannot yet concede that private ownership is a powerful stimulant for economic growth, to mention one factor blocking meaningful economic reform in the Soviet Union, the Baltic states are making a case for doing it their way, to use the phrase Gennadi I. Gerasimov, Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman, applied to Hungary and Poland (front page, Oct. 26).
Given demographic change fostered by central government policies - in Estonia the number of Estonians grew 1.6 percent over the last decade, while the number of non-Estonians, mostly Russians, increased 16.6 percent - concern over an ever-increasing immigration rate is understandable. Even Moscow, under similar pressure, has taken steps to limit immigration in sharp contrast to policies that heretofore have favored movement of the Russian population to the Baltic states.
It is difficult to understand why peaceful Baltic states, as independent as Finland, could not be more attractive economically than they are as stunted socialist republics in the Soviet Union. The West should also keep in mind that of all the countries trampled in World War II, all regained independence, even if nominally, except for three. Are Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania once again chips in a big-power exercise of ''improving relations''?
 
 
 
AGO AMBRE
Silver Spring, Md., Oct. 26, 1989
 The writer is an economist in the Department of Commerce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: BALTIC STATES (97%); ESTONIA (95%); LITHUANIA (93%); LATVIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); FINLAND (79%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); BALTIC SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WRITERS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 



160 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15
 
Political use of the diplomatic corps to reward the President's friends and contributors has gotten out of hand under President Bush, some experts say. Page A1

 
East Germany proposed a law that declares for the first time that every citizen has the right to travel abroad or emigrate. But after another surge in emigration, the move seemed to attract little excitement. A14

 
How many people can Bonn handle? That was on the mind of some leaders as 20,000 more emigrants arrived from East Germany. The Goverment reaffirmed its policy of automatic citizenship for all Germans. A1 
 
 
In Czech border town, another day of rush hour A14

U.S. considers East German situation unstable A15

Most Hungarians enjoy freedom from politics A14

 
Hard-line Christians in Beirut virtually shut down the Christian sector in central Lebanon in support of Gen. Michel Aoun, the Christian army commander. A3

 
Soviet human rights campaigners are asking Moscow to investigate the case of a rights advocate injured in a jailhouse fall. Family and friends suspect foul play. A9

 
Richard Nixon met President Bush Sunday night to give a firsthand report on his trip to China. A13

 
Carter urges Bush to match Gorbachev initiatives A16

 
Two Greeks claimed a mandate to govern the country. But neither Constantine Mitsotakis nor Andreas Papandreou holds enough seats in Parliament to take power. A7

 
The biggest threat to the Sandinistas appears to be the nation's deteriorating economy. Some opposition leaders accuse the government of raising the specter of war simply to distract from the daily hardships. A10

 
U.S. and Japan refuse curbs on carbon dioxide A12

 
NATIONAL A16-20, B8-9
 
A friend of Washington's mayor, Marion Barry, testified that he had given Mr. Barry crack on ''more than one occasion.'' A1

 
Boeing has agreed to plead guilty to two charges of illegally obtaining internal Pentagon planning documents, Government officials said. A1

 
A strike is making Seattle nervous as Christmas nears. A walkout at Boeing has all but shut down production at the airplane maker, cutting a $2 billion annual payroll in half. A16

 
The F.B.I. investigated librarians earlier this year after criticism of the agency's effort to identify spies through a library surveillance program, internal documents show. A1

 
An earthquake may benefit Oakland, showing off the city's best traits, raising morale and giving the economy an unexpected boost. A18

 
Freeway collapse is linked to ground A18

 
The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether state courts, in addition to Federal courts, can hear lawsuits brought under a Federal law against job discrimination. A16

 
Justices reject challenges to Dalkon shield settlement D1

 
An Energy official told senators that the department pays private management consultants substantially more than it pays its own employees for comparable work. A20

 
Coca Cola will distribute $50 million through its private foundation over the next decade to support eucational institutions and programs throughout the United States, the company announced. B8

 
Bishops intensify abortion fight A16

Battle in Indiana looms on gambling B8

Massachusetts town is divided over official language issue B8

Jail sentences in Princeton/ Newport case D1

Programs send Dow down 47.34 D1

 
REGIONAL B1-7
 
David Dinkins and Rudolph Giuliani capped New York City's most contested mayoral race in 20 years with impassioned finales that epitomized their contentious campaigns. A1

 
In final sweep, candidates for governor cross New Jersey B1

From the libretto of the mayoral campaign, selected verses B5

Dinkins admits to not listing friend's help on Riviera trip B4

 
AIDS is spreading to babies by the thousands. In the years to come, experts say, many of the young will spend their childhood fighting AIDS with extensive, costly medical care. A1

 
Battery Park City's development, which halted after the 1987 stock market plunge, has started again. But slow economic growth has prompted planners to rethink their vision. B1

 
New Jersey's toxic waste cleanup is grinding along behind schedule. With years of work and tens of millions in expense ahead, the state's environmental commissioner is wondering if the high costs are justified. B1

 
D'Amato aides asked Samuel Pierce in 1986 to approve $5.9 million in housing grants for a project with ties to a D'Amato contributor and to the law firm of Senator D'Amato's brother, Senator D'Amato acknowledged. B1

 
Gay teachers are suing for benefits for their companions. They contend that New York City's health-benefits policies violate the State Constitution by discriminating on the basis of marital status and sexual orientation. B2

 
Some 30 Gramercy Park residents, forced to abandon their apartments after an asbestos-lined steam pipe exploded 11 weeks ago, have learned in recent days that their homes have been ransacked. B3

 
A judge acquits two police officers of beating man B3

Families placed in welfare hotel faulted on lead B5

Michigan utility eager to convert Shoreham for gas power B2

Our Towns: A small crime and a big game divide a school B1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); LEBANON (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (79%); POLITICS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); MAYORS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); ARMIES (73%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); ESPIONAGE (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); CHRISTMAS (68%); RELIGION (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (67%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (67%); GUILTY PLEAS (66%); LITIGATION (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); AIRCRAFT MFG (62%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); CITIZENSHIP (56%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 



161 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1789 words

HEADLINE: A Sandinista Promise Gone Sour Alienates Nicaragua's Working Class

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Nov. 6

 BODY:
On a crumbling wall here, some aging graffiti sum up the Sandinista National Liberation Front's pledge to the urban poor: ''Workers! The F.S.L.N. will never let you down!''
In broad red brushstrokes, the slogan defines the revolutionary compact that once bound the Sandinistas to Nicaragua's working class, helping the insurgent movement to seize power in 1979.
But after three years of political and economic crisis, the promise has faded along with the paint.
Battered by galloping inflation, Nicaraguan workers have seen their real wages fall by more than 90 percent since 1981, forcing huge cuts in private consumption. Large-scale layoffs of Government workers and a deep industrial decline have left thousands of people in Managua and other cities without jobs. And with national elections less than three and a half months away, the urban workers who once sustained the Sandinista Government have now become one of its most serious potential liabilities. 
 
Prices Rise as Salaries Lag
''For us, the economy has been destroyed, just destroyed,'' said Alcides Flores, a 42-year-old worker in Managua. ''Every day the prices go up, but our salaries stay the same. People are doing anything they can just to survive, and they blame the Government for what is happening to us.''
In the last week, the issue of economic hardship has been overshadowed here by the Government's decision to end its cease-fire with contra rebels and by fears that new fighting may interfere with national elections scheduled for Feb. 25.
But workers in Managua, which has been relatively untouched by direct effects of the war against the contras, dread the threat of renewed fighting also for its economic cost. Some opposition leaders have accused the Government of raising the specter of war precisely to distract people from the hardships of daily life.
Over the last two years, the Sandinista Government has taken tough measures to halt the economy's rapid deterioration, which Government officials ascribe to the heavy burden of the eight-year war against American-backed rebels. Those measures, mainly deep cuts in Government spending and investment, have succeeded in reducing inflation, which reached an annual rate of 36,000 percent last year, to less than 10 percent a month.
 
'Life Is Horrible'
But the fight to regain control of the currency has left the economy in a deep recession, particularly in the industrial sector, which is expected to shrink by roughly 20 percent this year alone, according to confidential Government figures. The consequences of that contraction are being borne largely in urban areas, which account for more than 80 percent of the country's industry. And with nothing to fall back on but their shrinking salaries, urban workers - who make up an estimated 25 percent of the nation's voters - have felt the full force of Nicaragua's economic crisis.
''Life is horrible right now,'' said Luis, a 30-year-old driver who asked not to be further identified. ''We have been left out, put on the margins, and the situation just keeps getting worse. I think the problems are irreversible.''
In dozens of interviews throughout Managua and surrounding areas, low-income workers from the public and private sectors alike expressed despair about their economic circumstances and many said that economic reasons alone would compel them to vote for the opposition. Although most of those interviewed said they believed the war had been important in starting the economic slide, few said it could justify their continuing hardship. And many said flatly that they did not believe the Government was able or willing to solve the nation's economic crisis.
''We used to eat three times a day, like normal people,'' said Luis Edmundo Sanchez, a salaried laborer in Managua. ''But I can only afford to eat twice, and it is the same with everybody I know. The only ones who can afford to eat are in the Government.''
 
Favored Treatment for City
Such criticism is a dramatic change from the early days of the Sandinista regime, when the Government, acting to fulfill its revolutionary ideals, used subsidies and price controls to give city dwellers more favorable terms of trade than their counterparts in the countryside, bringing a surge of prosperity to Nicaragua's fledgling proletariat.
Those policies, together with the start of the contra war, helped produce a nationwide exodus from the countryside to the cities, giving Managua one of the highest urban growth rates in the world. According to official estimates, the capital now holds more than one million people, or one-third of all Nicaraguans, gravely straining housing, water and sewerage services, which are barely suitable for half that population. All of the city's services were badly damaged in the devastating earthquake of 1972 and were never substantially repaired.
To halt the influx to the cities and to reduce discontent that gave contra forces rural support, the Government changed its economic policies in 1984 in favor of rural producers. A gradual increase in the relative prices paid for farm products, together with a new emphasis on redistribution of land into individual farms instead of large cooperatives, helped to reduce rural support for the contras.
But the new policies did not halt the migration into the cities. And they only compounded the problems of the thousands of Nicaraguans who had already abandoned the countryside for the city.
 
Many Eat Just One Meal a Day
Economists who have studied the resulting economic collision say it combined a glut of workers with a battered urban economy. And it was compounded by an American embargo on trade with Nicaragua, poor Government management and uncontrolled inflation caused by high military expenditures.
The most important problem, the economists say, is not the supply of adequate food and other products at city markets, but the low buying power of the workers who consume those goods.
At current exchange rates, for example, a typical Government-paid laborer earns about 500,000 cordobas, or roughly $20, for a month's work. That salary must be stretched to meet rising prices, which have left a single one-pound can of powdered milk, enough to feed one child for three to four days, costing more than 80,000 cordobas, a pound of pork at 24,000 cordobas, and a pair of shoes at 600,000 to 800,000 cordobas.
''By the time we get paid, the money has already been spent just to pay for food,'' said Alberto Ruiz, a 32-year-old government construction foreman. He said most families had given up eating meat, and many had been reduced to one meal a day.
Experts say the collapse of real wages masks an increasing reliance on barter, payments in kind, gifts from relatives abroad and unrecorded transactions on the black market - the so-called informal economy.
''There is not a formal social safety net,'' said Mario Arana Sevilla, an economist at a Government-sponsored research institute in Managua. ''But there are informal ways, informal strategies that people have worked out in order to get by.''
 
Consumption Down Sharply
But official figures show that per capita private consumption has fallen by at least 70 percent under Sandinista rule. In an election season that figure alone has placed the Government on the defensive. And while many diplomats and economists believe that the Government recovery plan is well designed, they note that it demands harsh sacrifices now for stability later - a trade-off that could hardly be more damaging to the Sandinistas' election efforts.
Economists say the Government is likely to benefit politically from the large numnber of workers who are paid directly by the state and who may vote in favor of Sandinista leaders to protect their jobs. Approximately 58 percent of urban workers and about 71 percent of skilled technicians are employed by the state, according to a recent study.
The economic recovery measures also provide near-term benefits for some groups, notably small entrepreneurs, who are now viewed as vital to an economic revival. But many diplomats note that the entrepreneurs and market vendors were among the first, and the bitterest, enemies of the Sandinistas. And they doubt that the Government will win many new votes among such dedicated opponents.
Instead, the diplomats say, the Government's greatest efforts at this point are likely to be directed not at winning back disenchanted urban workers, but at avoiding new economic shocks that would alienate still more. In a country where exchange rates are watched as avidly as sports scores, rumors abound that the Government is preparing a new devaluation that would perhaps halve the value of the cordoba against the dollar. And critics of the Government argue that the cost of the election itself may touch off a round of economic shocks that could be catastrophic for Sandinista prestige.
''The Government will have to spend at least $25 million on election costs, and it is also reaching the part of the production cycle where it must pay producers for goods that have been exported,'' said Mario Alegria Castillo, a private economist. ''If it doesn't get some form of outside help, it will have to cover that cost by printing money, but that would mean new inflation. It is like a baseball runner who has been caught between the bases.''
 
'Everything Will Be Better!'
In a tacit acknowledgement of their weak economic record, Sandinista leaders have adopted a forward-looking campaign slogan: ''Everything will be better!''
The slogan, Sandinista officials say, refers to the influx of new aid, particularly from Western Europe, and to improved commercial relationships that they believe will follow if the election process is judged to be free and fair, certifying Nicaragua's democratic credentials. Part of such a new environment, they say, would be the ending of the United States trade embargo and the withdrawal of American opposition to multilateral lending to the Sandinista Government.
But such optimism is viewed coldly by many Managua workers who assert that Sandinista leaders have already forfeited the allegiance of the urban working class. Several said that if relations with the United States were the answer to the economic crisis the opposition was better suited for the job. Well-publicized foreign donations to the opposition parties here have been interpreted by many Nicaraguans as proof that the opposition, not the Sandinistas, has better access to the foreign money necessary to relieve Nicaragua's crisis.
''Everything will be better, but only because they will be gone,'' said a Managua heavy-equipment operator, referring to the Sandinistas. ''The worker won't give him his vote.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Virgilio Godov (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); CONSUMPTION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); 

PERSON: UHLIG, MARK A



162 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Japan Refuse Curbs on Carbon Dioxide

BYLINE: By PAUL L. MONTGOMERY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NOORDWIJK ANN ZEE, Netherlands, Nov. 6

 BODY:
The United States and Japan refused today to accept strong measures on curbing the release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
Attending a 70-nation conference on global warming, both countries, two of the world's most industrialized, said they would not endorse a commitment to control emission of carbon dioxide by the year 2000. Experts say such emissions are a major cause of the warming of the atmosphere, known as the ''greenhouse effect.''
William K. Reilly, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency and leader of the American delegation here, said the Bush Administration recognized the carbon dioxide problem but believed that further study was necessary before binding controls could be proposed. Limiting excess carbon dioxide produced by the burning coal in power plants or gasoline in automobiles is the main target of the global-warming conference. 
Environmentalists and several governments in Scandinavia and Europe have called for controls to keep carbon dioxide emissions at current levels. They are also seeking ways to save energy and curb gasoline use to reduce the emissions. Oil and coal companies and large industrial users are the main opponents of such a strategy.
A number of countries among the 70 represented by environmental officials in this western Netherlands seaport were preparing a tough declaration proposing specific curbs despite the opposition of the United States and Japan. A Netherlands plan for holding carbon dioxide emissions to the 1988 level by the year 2000 was the preferred approach. Such a declaration would not be binding on the nations that sign it.
Brice Lalonde, the French environmental secretary, said Britain was the only one of the 12 nations in the European Community to oppose immediate targets for carbon dioxide curbs. Eastern bloc participants like the Soviet Union and Poland have also opposed specific targets, saying such controls would be too costly to their economies.
The conference is one of a series that has examined the greenhouse effect and related problems.
The United States has said the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, sponsored by the United Nations and the World Meteorological Organization, is the proper forum for introducing declarations on specific curbs. That panel's three working groups are led by the United States, Britain and the Soviet Union - all opponents of immediate action. The panel is not expected to produce a final report for another year.
The United States is the principal source of carbon dioxide in the world, producing 23 percent of the total, according to United Nations figures from 1985. The Soviet Union produced 19 percent, followed by China, with 10 percent; Japan, 5 percent; West Germany, 4 percent; the Britain, 3 percent, and France, East Germany and Poland, 2 percent each.
 
Worsened by Forest Loss
The industrial pollution is made worse by the steady destruction of the world's forests because trees contribute to the recycling of carbon dioxide and the generation of oxygen.
Environmentalists say every year's delay in curbing carbon dioxide adds greatly to the danger because the damage in the atmosphere is cumulative. Some scientists say carbon dioxide emissions might have to be cut by 70 percent or more in the next half century to restore nature's balance.
The Netherlands announced plans today for unilateral action to cut emissions. The country has the most advanced environmental protection plan in the world, including stringent curbing of automobiles.
The last Dutch Government fell in May over aspects of the plan, but the new Christian Democrat-Socialist coalition, scheduled to take office on Tuesday, has said it will put the plan into action.
Eduardus Nijpels, the interim Environment Minister, said at the conference today that the Netherlands would cut carbon dioxide emissions in 1990 by 2 percent, and 2 percent more each year to a target of 8 percent in 1994. The Netherlands would be the first country to take such action.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); GERMANY (71%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN; NETHERLANDS

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; CARBON DIOXIDE; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION EMISSIONS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (75%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); COAL INDUSTRY (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (74%); POWER PLANTS (74%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (74%); METEOROLOGY (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: MONTGOMERY, PAUL L



163 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Considers East German Measures Inadequate

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 6

 BODY:
Bush Administration officials said today that the situation in East Germany was unstable and unpredictable because the steps taken by the country's new leaders were inadequate to end the turmoil there.
The State Department reacted coolly to measures announced by Egon Krenz, the East German leader, that would allow East Germans to travel outside their country for up to 30 days a year.
''It does seem to signify a liberalization when compared to existing travel rules,'' said Richard A. Boucher, the deputy spokesman at the State Department. ''Nonetheless, the changes are still far from full freedom of movement, one of the basic human rights which we've always called for and always supported. We'll just have to see whether this proposed new law will satisfy the wishes of the East German population.'' 
American officials said they had no reason to believe that Mr. Krenz would emerge as an advocate of economic and political change in the mold of Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet President. ''Gorbachev shows native curiosity,'' said Herbert S. Okun, an expert on Eastern Europe who served as the United States Ambassador to East Germany from 1980 to 1983. ''He likes give and take. Krenz is leaden, heavy and plodding.''
A State Department official said: ''The outlook for East Germany is quite dim. It will be difficult to stanch the flow of people out of the country. I foresee increasing social unrest, and there is an existential problem, too. If the leaders make the necessary reforms, they may reform themselves out of existence. They may self-destruct. The regime has been illegitimate, and has been perceived as illegitimate, for a long time.'' On Friday, Mr. Krenz announced the dismissal of five senior members of the Politburo. But Administration officials said they would not praise that move until they saw who the replacements were.
John Edwin Mroz, president of the Institute for East-West Security Studies, a research center in New York, said, ''There is a real question whether East Germany can remain a viable state.
''You have a revolution from below,'' Mr. Mroz said. ''It's an explosion in East Germany, whereas there was a gradual process of evolutionary change in Hungary and Poland. The East German leadership has a salvage operation, and they are following, not leading, the people.'' He said it was ''inconceivable that the Soviet Union would allow a total breakdown of law and order in East Germany.''
President Bush's national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, and other Administration officials said Washington stood ready to help West Germany if the flow of East German emigres became unmanageable. But the United States does not appear to have concrete plans, and Administration officials said they would not provide such assistance unless Bonn requested it.
 
'We Have Not Been Approached'
''We would have to be approached by the West German Government with a specific request for assistance,'' Mr. Boucher said. ''At this point, we have not been approached. We also expect the West Germans would first approach the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, since the High Commissioner has primary responsibility for such international assistance.''
Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said: ''Although we see large numbers of people leaving, the rate of entry into West Germany appears manageable at this time. We believe West Germany is doing an excellent job of handling this flow of people.''
On the CBS News program ''Face the Nation,'' Mr. Scowcroft said Sunday that the orderly exodus of East Germans could become chaotic if ''something unexpected'' happens.
The situation is complicated because ''there's no East German nation,'' Mr. Scowcroft said. The East Germans ''distinguish themselves only by their political and economic system,'' he said. So ''to the extent they reform'' that system, ''they undercut their reason for existence,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); POLITICS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%); 

PERSON: KRENZ, EGON; PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



164 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Lubec Journal;
As Small Town Burns, Its Tight Fabric Frays

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LUBEC, Me.

 BODY:
Marylyn Curtis had planned to spend Thanksgiving with her daughter in Chicago, but a recent series of suspicious fires in this seaside town, including one in an abandoned church next door to her home, have changed her plans.
''I've stayed close to home ever since,'' said Ms. Curtis, who is the town clerk. ''I am petrified. I'm just thankful that the wind wasn't right to take down my house, too.'' 
Nineteen suspicious fires in the last three months have terrified the 1,800 residents of this remote community, which is the easternmost town in the United States. Even though the two-man police force and seven reserve officers make extra nightly rounds, residents have begun to stand guard over their property, turning on outside lights and loading their firearms.
''People are so scared they don't go to bed at night,'' said Sharley Fitzsimmons, the foreman at McCurdy's Smokehouse, where a fire in August caused minor damage to a storeroom.
The most recent fire, a few days ago, destroyed a summer home eight miles from the downtown section. Two weeks earlier, the former Disciples of Christ Church was burned. The first two fires were on July 31. Fire officials, who hesitate to estimate monetary loss, say an elderly man's home and two churches were destroyed; other buildings suffered less damage. Fires were also started in an abandoned canning plant, a restaurant, six uninhabited houses and a garage. Two houses were set ablaze more than once.
''It's very obvious it's a set fire,'' said Ladd Alcott, the state's Assistant Fire Marshal. ''A building with no electricity will sit like that for 200 years.'' Some of the buildings, including both churches and a few of the houses, were without electricity.
Although local investigators say there are suspects, they add that they are a long way from making arrests. They say they perceive no apparent pattern to the fires; all but three have occurred in a lovely hillside neighborhood of turn-of-the-century homes. All were set at night. None of the buildings were occupied, leading investigators to believe that the arsonist or arsonists wanted to avoid hurting people.
The local police and fire departments, the Washington County Sheriff's Department and the Maine State Fire Marshal's Office are cooperating on the inquiry, said the Fire Chief, Errol Tinker, who heads a 30-person volunteer force. He, like others, believes the fires are the work of several ''copycats.''
''I just wish it would stop,'' said Chief Tinker. ''It's hard on me. It's hard on the men. We've loaded more hose in the last month than we normally would all year.'' Lubec averages 40 minor fires a year.
Once a thriving port on the Lubec Neck peninsula, this town bustled with 18 sardine-canning plants at the turn of the century. In the last few decades, all but two plants have closed, and recent figures put the unemployment rate at 24.8 percent.
Lubec is a close-knit, friendly town, and the fires have bewildered residents and set them on edge.
''Ten, 15 years ago, a guy was burning down buildings, but everybody knew who was doing that,'' said Howard Jones, who runs a combination liquor store and gas station here. ''They just had to wait and catch him in the act. But these fires - no one knows.''
Many of his customers and friends say they are keeping their weapons loaded, Mr. Jones said. Law enforcement officials worry that an innocent person may fall victim to an anxious property owner.
Chief Tinker takes little solace in the perpetrators' seeming concern about hurting people. ''They are hurting people financially and emotionally,'' he said. ''It's taking its toll, especially on the older people.''
Seventy-four-year-old Waldo Hoar may have lost the most. His large Victorian-era house and all its contents were destroyed last September. A month later, someone set fire to the little that was left.
''I just couldn't believe it,'' Mr. Hoar said. ''I never done no one no harm. Why would they be in there doing stuff like that to me?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LUBEC (MAINE)

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; ARSON; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARSON (90%); FIRES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); RELIGION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); SHERIFFS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); POWER FAILURES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN HOWARD MUMFORD JONES (58%); 



165 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: TALKS AT BOEING APPEAR STALLED

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Nov. 6

 BODY:
Five weeks into a strike that has virtually shut down airplane production at the Boeing Company and cut a $2 billion annual payroll in half, this city is starting to get jitters over the prospect of a walkout that could last through Christmas.
Although the Seattle economy, one of the healthiest and fastest growing in the nation, is not nearly as dependent on Boeing as it was during Boeing's last peak period 20 years ago, the strike by 58,000 machinists is starting to hurt retailers, from small lunch shops to department stores, throughout the Puget Sound area.
Economists worry that the strike, which looks as though it will last at least another month following a breakdown of talks over weekend, will drag other segments of the Northwest economy down with it as it continues.
''The main impact now is the loss of that huge wage bill, the millions of dollars that are normally floating around the economy from weekly paychecks,'' said Robert Chase, an economist at the University of Washington. 
 
A New But Similar Offer
After a week of negotiations, Boeing made a new offer to leaders of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers on Sunday. The offer was essentially the one that had been rejected by members in early October, except that the company offered bigger bonuses. The union leadership dismissed the new offer.
The offer would have provided an average bonus of about $3,000 by this Christmas, and two smaller bonuses in the next two years, a 7 percent increase over the previous offer. In the past, Boeing workers have accepted fat bonus checks at Christmas in lieu of general wage increases. This year, with Boeing reporting record third-quarter profits of $242 million, union leaders have urged their members to resist the temptation of instant cash and to hold out for better contracts to get them through the coming years.
The total package offered over the weekend is roughly the same as the previous offer because money would be taken from cost-of-living increases to pay for the bonuses. The proposed wage increase of 10 percent over three years remained the same.
On the picket line, many Boeing workers who have been living on $100-a-week strike benefits and have been pressed by mounting bills said they were tempted to take the new package, which Boeing called its final offer.
 
Best 'in Recent History'
''We look at this economic proposal as the best offer to machinists in the United States in recent history,'' said Larry McKean, Boeing's chief negotiator.
Leaders of the machinists, however, rejected the proposal as ''an insult'' and said it would not be submitted for a full vote of the union membership. They adopted a new slogan for the strike: ''No money, no airplanes.''
Harold Carr, a spokesman for Boeing, said 10 percent, or about 5,800 workers, have crossed picket lines at Boeing plants in the Seattle area and in Wichita, Kan., and Portland, Ore.
Union leaders say commitment to the strike in Seattle remains firm. ''This is the strongest strike I've ever seen,'' said Tom Baker, chief negotiator for the machinists. ''There is no reason, other than Boeing's cheapness, to grant workers in the nation's No. 1 export industry second-rate or third-rate pay raises.''
Union leaders also realize the strike is starting to hurt Boeing. The company has delivered 16 airplanes, most of which were already nearly completed, since the start of the Oct. 4 walkout. Frank Shrontz, chairman of the Boeing, reported last month that the strike would have ''severe adverse impact'' on fourth-quarter profits.
 
Lower Projected Profits
One analyst, Paul Nisbet at Prudential Bache Securities Inc., has lowered projections for Boeing's fourth-quarter profits from $1.75 a share to $1. ''There is intense pressure to end this strike,'' Mr. Nisbet said. Although only one in 10 jobs in the Seattle area is tied to Boeing, as against one in five two decades ago, the amount of money pumped into the regional economy from Boeing wages is much greater, by percentage, according to some economists.
''The typical Boeing worker makes much more than 20 years ago, so when you have a strike, consumer buying of such things as washers and dryers and cars and televisions are hit very hard,'' Mr. Chase said. The city as a whole, however, is not nearly as tied to Boeing as it once was. Seattle has become a prosperous regional center for finance, software manufacturing and Pacific Rim trade, according to a recent report by Salomon Brothers Inc..

GRAPHIC: photo of striking Boeing workers in Seattle (NYT/Chris Bennion)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (95%); BAB (BRU) (95%); BA (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (95%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (95%); INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; INTERNATIONAL MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS ASSN OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SEATTLE (WASH)

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FACTORY WORKERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); RETAILERS (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); AIRLINES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY



166 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Oakland's Dowdy Image Is Shattered

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., Nov. 6

 BODY:
This misunderstood city on the east side of San Francisco Bay is taking stock of its earthquake experience and finding unexpected promise in the rubble.
While the 15-second jolt last month claimed historic buildings here, closed department stores, shut City Hall and turned welfare tenants out of dilapidated hotels, Oakland's leaders predict that their immediate problems will be outweighed by a long-term gain. And even in the short term, Oakland is benefiting, as residents confined by a crippled highway network are discovering their city and spending money at home instead of across the bay.
''It's a blessing in disguise,'' said Edward J. Blakely, the chairman of the graduate program of city planning at the University of California at Berkeley, a longtime resident of Oakland. ''This gives us all kinds of opportunities to seize.'' 
 
City's Inferiority Complex
Until now, Oakland has been a city with a terrible inferiority complex despite its championship baseball team, scorned as San Francisco's plain stepsister and feared because of crack and crime. But the 7.1 temblor that rocked the region on Oct. 17 has done wonders for Oakland's public image and its sense of itself as a brave and singular place.
''Sometimes I think we've believed our own bad press,'' said Jerry Westenhaver, general manager of the Hyatt Regency, Oakland's largest hotel with 468 rooms.
Before the earthquake, many people outside the Bay Area had no idea where Oakland was. Others considered it a dangerous, unstable city where housing projects crackled with gunfire and narcotics arrests soared, where the school system was on the verge of collapse and municipal hospitals had become M*A*S*H units.
 
A New View
These days, that perception has changed.
Millions of people around the world know that Oakland faces San Francisco across the severed Bay Bridge. They know that in days of terrible stress there was virtually no looting and rioting here, even in the blighted neighborhood beside the collapsed Nimitz Freeway, where 41 motorists were killed.
And they know that many more might have died beneath the curtain of crushed concrete were it not for the bravery of residents who scaled the ruined roadway to pull strangers to safety.
 
Crossing the Bridge
Similarly, Oakland's self-image has been transformed by the trauma.
Long before the earthquake, the 356,000 people who live here treasured their city for its unpretentious ways and its racial harmony, for its well-kept homes, its gentle sunshine and its wide vistas. But despite their genuine pride - almost a reverse snobbery about choosing a city without San Francisco's cultural smugness or Berkeley's ideological airs - most residents of Oakland still regarded their hometown as an outpost. To work, to shop and to dine often meant that people here crossed ''The Bridge'' and went to ''The City.''
Without the Bay Bridge, an eight-mile drive becomes a 35-mile jog to the north or an even longer trip down the east shore of the bay and back up the peninsula to San Francisco. Commuters can make their way to work using a patchwork of ferries, trains and buses. But for the time being, Oaklanders who have any choice are staying home.
 
Crowded Stores and Restaurants
While San Francisco restaurants are struggling, missing their usual complements of tourists and East Bay residents, Oakland's are full. While San Francisco's merchants worry about failing business, Oakland's are bragging about crowded stores. Some San Francisco businesses are setting up temporary satellite operations in the East Bay to eliminate commuting, prompting a run on prime office space in what had been a sleepy market.
Robert C. Maynard, editor of The Oakland Tribune, calls the current situation a reversal of the usual ''trans-bay wealth transfer.'' San Franciscans ''thought they didn't need us near as much as we needed them,'' Mr. Maynard said. ''They are about to make the discovery of their lives: how dependent they are on East Bay residents and East Bay dollars.''
Mr. Blakely agreed. ''What seems to be happening,'' he said, ''is people are moving around the East Bay without reference to San Francisco. We are developing a sense of subregional economy. I think the psychology of this could be long-term. We may develop a new sense of civic destiny here.''
Oakland was in a frenzy of self-promotion just as the earthquake struck, in the middle of a World Series that pitted the hometown Athletics against the San Francisco Giants. Besides the hope that a victory over their cross-Bay rival might boost civic spirit - a celebratory mood that the earthquake precluded as irrelevant - Oakland boosters saw the Series as an opportunity to show off to visitors their redevelopment projects, waterfront mall, downtown saltwater lake, hillside mansions and bustling Asian neighborhoods. While the earthquake canceled that opportunity, it provided another.
Part of the World Series tour for visiting journalists, conducted by the city's public relations firm, was a sculpture in a downtown plaza called ''There,'' in recognition of Gertrude Stein's lament that ''there is no there there.'' Nothing has so shaped Oakland's dreary image as this passage from the writer's 1937 memoir, ''Everybody's Autobiography.'' Misconstrued for more than 50 years, the phrase was meant to mourn the disappearance of Miss Stein's childhood home in Oakland, and not to characterize the city where she grew up.
This sort of misunderstanding galls Oaklanders, who complained that even during the earthquake they took a back seat to San Francisco, which is twice as populous and where most news organizations have their headquarters. Mayor Art Agnos of San Francisco got more attention than Mayor Lionel Wilson. And the 2,500 people displaced from their homes here were seen less frequently on television than the 1,100 new homeless in San Francisco, most of them well-to-do residents of the Marina district.
 
'Count Your Blessings'
But being slighted in this way was another boon for Oakland, some local leaders said, leaving the impression that the East Bay is a safer place to live or invest. ''The Mayor wanted more coverage,'' Mr. Blakely said. ''I told him, 'Count your blessings.' ''
Mr. Blakely and others hope the earthquake will not only increase pride and business here, but give the city a chance to correct some of its design flaws, like a diffuse downtown and a freeway system that isolates and thus blights West Oakland.
Forty-seven percent, of Oakland's residents are black and the city has been designated America's most integrated by a group of University of Wisconsin researchers, who determined that only 2 percent of the city's blacks lived on segregated blocks.
One of Oakland's proudest accomplishments is its relative racial peace. In the 1960's and 70's, when the nation was torn by race riots from Watts to Harlem, Oakland did not burn. In the 1980's, when racial tensions have again divided cities, Oakland's black professionals live peaceably beside their white counterparts in $300,000 hillside houses where roses and lemon trees bloom year-round.
''The divisions here are economic, not racial,'' said Mayor Wilson, a pitcher in the Negro leagues, a lawyer and a judge before his election 12 years ago.
Oakland has a thriving black middle class and its members dominate the city Government and run many cultural and civic institutions. Still, the city is better known for its underclass, the 18.5 percent of Oakland's citizens who live below the poverty line.
The city's worst poverty is concentrated in West Oakland, the neighborhood where Huey P. Newton developed the Black Panther Party in the 1960's and last summer died in a drug-related shooting. This is the same area that is adjacent to the Nimitz Freeway and its residents were among the earthquake's heroes.
For some in Oakland, current circumstances are an excuse to thumb their noses at San Franciscans who have treated them with scorn, or as Mr. Maynard puts it, ''like we were a colony, like we needed them to complete our lives.''
For others, recent events are merely an accident of nature that helped Oaklanders break the habit of crossing the bay and left city leaders privately celebrating the closure of the region's main transportation link.
''I've been in meetings,'' Mr. Blakely said, ''where people said they were delighted the bridge fell down.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Edward J. Blakely (NYT/Terrence McCarthy); map of Oakland, Calif.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (98%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (74%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OAKLAND (CALIF); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EARTHQUAKES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); RIOTS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); RETAILERS (72%); HOTEL STAFF (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); TRENDS (67%); BASEBALL (67%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (63%); HOSPITALS (50%); RACE & RACISM (50%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE



167 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: D'Amato Acknowledges Plea for a H.U.D. Grant

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato acknowledged yesterday that his office had asked Housing Secretary Samuel R. Pierce Jr. in 1986 to approve $5.9 million in grants for an upstate project being represented by his brother's law firm and developed by one of his campaign contributors.
But he said the letter requesting the funds was written by the head of his Syracuse office, who was authorized to sign his name, and he insisted that he had not learned of its existence until last Friday, when Newsday questioned him about it for a story published yesterday.
Newsday, which reproduced the letter, said that Mr. Pierce had at first ''temporarily rejected'' the fund request on technical grounds, but that the Department of Housing and Urban Development had since awarded $6.4 million to the project in Sackets Harbor, N.Y.
The project, a complex of new and rehabilitated housing, retail stores and a new conference center and country inn, is being built on the site of Madison Barracks, a historic military base on Lake Ontario, 30 miles from the Canadian border. 
 
D'Amato Under Fire
Senator D'Amato, a New York Republican who has been under fire in recent months for supporting Federal housing grants that were said to have benefited his friends, relatives or campaign contributors, called the 1986 request for Federal aid to the project an appropriate effort by his office to help an economically depressed community. ''Would I have supported the project had I known about it?'' he said in an interview. ''Absolutely. There was no reason not to. In reviewing the merits of the request, this project was in a highly distressed area -the local officials were desperate when they approached us.''
At the time, the Senator said, the Jefferson County community had the state's highest unemployment rate and many residents had left to find work elsewhere.
The Senator said the request for funds had nothing to do with aiding his brother, Armand, a partner in a Mineola, L.I., law firm representing the project, or Jobco, a Great Neck, L.I., developer whose owners have contributed to his campaigns. Armand D'Amato has done legal work for Jobco for years. Federal election records show that Jobco's owners have given $9,600 to D'Amato campaigns and gave a fund-raising affair for his 1986 campaign.
''My brother didn't come to my office for any aid,'' Senator D'Amato said. ''His office did not make a request of my office. The project should be judged on its merits alone. People up there were desperate for help.''
 
Assistant Wrote Letter
The Senator said Jobco was not even the project's developer when his office was first approached in 1984 by the Mayor of Sackets Harbor and an economic development agency for communities in New York and Ontario in the St. Lawrence River-Lake Ontario region. The original developer went bankrupt and Jobco took over the project in 1986.
Mr. D'Amato acknowledged that the letter of July 15, 1986, requesting H.U.D. funds for Sackets Harbor had been written by Gretchen Ralph, the executive assistant in charge of his Syracuse office, one of the Senator's five regional offices in the state. He noted that she signed his name to it, and called that routine, noting that tens of thousands of letters over his name go out each year without his personal perusal or signature.
Ms. Ralph did not return a call yesterday. She was quoted by Newsday as saying that at the time she sent the letter she did not know the identity of the developer or the fact that Senator D'Amato's brother represented the project.
While contending that Ms. Ralph had done nothing wrong, the Senator said his office last year had changed its procedures to insure that letters to and from Cabinet secretaries and other high officials are all seen by Mr. D'Amato's top legislative and staff aides, if not by the Senator himself.
Mr. D'Amato also accused Newsday of ''a new low in journalistic standards.'' He said that portions of a letterhead showing that the letter came from his Syracuse office were whited out in the paper's Long Island edition, as if to suggest it had been sent from Washington.
The Senator also said the newspaper had used a quote to create a distorted impression. Newsday said he had told one of its reporters two months ago: ''I have absolutely never asked for any H.U.D. grants or anything else for Sackets Harbor or Jobco or the project up there.''
Mr. D'Amato did not deny making the statement, but said he had been talking to the reporter about a housing program known as Moderate Rehabilitation, not about Urban Development Action Grants, such as were made in Sackets Harbor.
James Toedtman, Newsday's managing editor in New York, said that a staff artist had mistakenly whited out the Syracuse address on the front page of the Long Island edition. Robert W. Greene, the assistant managing editor, denied that the quote had misrepresented the Senator. ''It was not out of context,'' he said. ''It speaks for itself.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); LAKE ONTARIO (79%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF; REPUBLICAN PARTY; NEWSDAY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SACKETS HARBOR (NY); NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FEDERAL AID (US); ETHICS HOUSING AUTHORITIES (93%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); LAWYERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CITIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); ETHICS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); RETAILERS (53%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); PIERCE, SAMUEL R JR (SEC) ALFONSE M D'AMATO (95%); 



168 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: Battery Park City Rousing From a 2-Year Fiscal Sleep

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA

 BODY:
Battery Park City, the 92-acre development whose expansion halted after the 1987 stock market plunge and economic slowdown, is ready to create new neighborhoods to the north and south.
As the project expands, the weaknesses of Wall Street continue to dog its planners, who have been lauded for doing what was thought to be impossible in this day and age. A government agency, working with architects and private developers, has created an attractive, financially successful community in lower Manhattan with a social purpose: The first $1 billion of its revenues is paying for low- and middle-income housing elsewhere in New York City.
The World Financial Center, the four office towers in the development, has reaped substantial profits, and the apartments are 98.4 percent occupied despite a flat real-estate market.
 
A Harder Road Ahead
But developers think future success on that scale will be harder to achieve and will take new thinking. 
The young investment bankers envisioned as the primary buyers of condominiums and cooperatives at Battery Park City are being laid off, and the double-income-no-kids couples who moved into the one-bedroom apartments that dominate the housing stock are having those kids and scouting for more space. Expensive retail outlets in the office buildings of the development, like many others in the city, report low sales. Planners are weighing how to connect the new settlements north and south to the neighborhoods across West Street and how to lure more New Yorkers to a place many still perceive as hard to reach.
The size of apartments, the types of stores and the connections to the rest of the city may have to change, say planners for the Battery Park City Authority, the state body that holds title to the land.
Battery Park City now is a cluster of apartment buildings and town houses that echo the designs of lower Manhattan and the Upper West Side. The housing is grouped around vest-pocket parks, an esplanade along the river with stunning views of the Statue of Liberty, a yacht harbor and the South Cove, which is so quiet that people strolling through it can hear the water lapping against the piers. The design has won praise from architects and urban planners.
Other cities have looked at its mix of public and private financing, its mingling of private residences with public spaces, as a model, said Meyer S. Frucher, a former president of the Battery Park City Authority.
The 6,000 people who live there - a fraction of the 20,000 or so expected to eventually - generally rave about the views, the parks and esplanade, and the sense of community. Thomas DeFrancesco, the managing agent of Gateway Plaza, the first apartment complex built, remembers the first tenants in 1982 gamely walking over planks and unpaved roads. Now, says Con Howe, executive director of the City Planning Commission and one of the early residents, neighbors relish the quiet that outsiders may see as isolation.
''I think everyone who lives in New York City treats their neighborhood as an enclave,'' he said. ''If anything has been done that's brilliant - almost without quick parallel - it's that for the residents, it feels safe. But it doesn't seem that the general public is excluded.''
A survey of the 5,500 people who lived in Battery Park City last year found the biggest complaint was limited services. They wanted more supermarkets, fruit markets and restaurants, as well as a movie theater. Most wanted better storage space in apartments, which many say are beautifully designed on the outside but too small inside.
 
Activity North and South
Now the project is moving into its next phases. In the northern sector, crews are putting up a new building for Stuyvesant High School; a developer just won a bid to construct the neighborhood's first residential building, and the authority projects a November ground-breaking for the largest park to be built in New York City in decades. A ferry service to Hoboken opened last month.
To the south, a chain-link fence still separates Battery Park from Battery Park City, but construction has begun on two more apartment buildings, and the authority has just designated a developer for a third.
These apartments will all be sold or rented at market rate, making it unlikely that the makeup of the population will change much. The 1988 survey found that the mean age of the residents was about 38 and the mean household income $102,632.
While officials responsible for Battery Park City pay homage to the idea of economic integration, they argue that the value of this prime waterfront land makes it impossible to build lower-income housing on it without government subsidies. David Emil, president of the Battery Park City Authority, said several studies of ways to reduce housing costs had projected only minor construction savings.
''I would like to build an economically integrated community,'' Mr. Emil said. ''I believe there is only so much intervention a government agency can make and be effective.''
 
Subsidies Aid Development
In the economic boom of the 1960's, Battery Park City was conceived as a mixed-income residence with generous government subsidies. The New York City fiscal crisis of the 1970's almost doomed it. It was reborn in the recovery of the 1980's with state and city subsidies in the form of tax incentives to the developers of office buildings and luxury housing aimed at the young executives of Wall Street.
Today, amid budget squeezes, officials and many housing advocates argue that the same subsidies would serve more people in need if used not in Battery Park City, but on cheaper land.
''I will listen to any idea they have for actually dropping the economic level of the people in the development,'' said Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. ''You can use the wealth more efficiently there by keeping the levels high and drawing down money for other uses.''
Richard A. Kahan, who as president of the authority in the late 1970's rescued Battery Park City and oversaw the development of its master plan, likes spending the revenues on cheaper housing. But he said he hoped some of this housing would be built in Battery Park City itself for the many modestly paid workers in the financial district whose bosses now can walk to work.
''Rather than having nothing but an upper-income enclave in a neighborhood that has so many workers, I support a search for a way to provide housing for some of them,'' he said.
 
Bigger Apartments in Demand
The next few apartment buildings planned, however, will probably be even more expensive, because many will be larger in response to the demand from expanding families. The largest apartments sold the fastest in newest building, the Regatta. Mr. Emil said.
But the financial community's problems have affected the project, said Fabian Palomino, chairman of the authority. Some developers delayed beginning construction for more than a year for fear of rushing new buildings into a weak market, he said. The delays prevented the state and city from receiving payments for the land. Developers were also slower to bid on new buildings; requests for proposals for the north residential area were issued in June 1988, and the authority named one of the developers last month.
The slowing economy has also hurt retail sales, particularly at the World Financial Center. Real-estate developers say the goods in the shops may be too high-priced. Several Wall Street lawyers and executives interviewed at the center said they had no time during lunch to shop and often walked past the stores after closing hours.
Clerks at Cignal, which offers high-priced casual wear, and Il Papiro, an imported paper goods shop, said sales were slow. Real-estate developers and some of the retailers in the complex also say that Olympia & York, the Canadian developer of the World Financial Center, is subsidizing the retailers by charging them little rent or only a percentage of sales.
 
A Turnaround Envisioned
The developer can well afford to do so, since the company has reaped huge profits on the office buildings. which are now more than 90 percent leased. Anita Contini, a company spokeswoman, said, ''Olympia & York will stand behind its tenants.'' She also said the latest sales figures showed a steady two-month improvement that signaled ''the beginning of a turnaround.''
Much will depend, she and others said, on how well Battery Park City succeeds in overcoming the perception that it is inaccessible. To reach the subways or the rest of Manhattan requires walking over pedestrian bridges or crossing busy West Street. For now, despite promotions for concerts at the World Financial Center, Battery Park City remains quiet, with not too many visitors.
On sunny weekend afternoons, as crowds a few blocks south jostle for spots on the Statue of Liberty boats, the Battery Park City esplanade may be host to no more than a dozen strollers, soaking in the silence.

GRAPHIC: New construction, foreground, has begun at Battery Park City amid concerns about an economy that has been slow since 1987. (NYT/Jack Manning) (pg. B1); map of Battery Park indicating new and approved new construction sites (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL CENTER BANK NA (57%); FINANCIAL CENTER CREDIT UNION (57%); FINANCIAL CENTER CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BATTERY PARK CITY (MANHATTAN); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CITIES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SALES PLAN (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: CHIRA, SUSAN



169 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Rivals Make Last-Day Push In New Jersey

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
Ending exhausting campaigns that began more than half a year ago, the candidates for governor in New Jersey crisscrossed the state yesterday before returning to their home bases to await the results of today's election.
Besides selecting a successor to Gov. Thomas H. Kean, who is prohibited by the state Constitution from seeking a third term, voters will also elect all 80 members of the General Assembly, as well as two state senators and many local and county officials.
Voters will also decide five public questions that would authorize spending $590 million for human service projects, new prisons, bridge repairs and preserving farm land and open space. 
New Jersey's polls are open from 7 A.M. to 8 P.M. Jan Burgio, the Secretary of State, has estimated that 60 percent of the state's 3.8 million registered voters will go to the polls. In 1981, the last time there was no incumbent governor running, the turnout exceeded 64 percent.
 
Mindful of 1981
Representative James J. Florio was at Newark's Penn Station just after dawn, greeting commuters and hoping to shore up the lead he has held almost from the beginning.
Ever mindful that he lost the 1981 election to Mr. Kean by only 1,797 votes, Mr. Florio has not let this campaign coast, no matter how far ahead of his Republican opponent, Representative Jim Courter, the polls have shown him.
After leaving Newark, Mr. Florio traveled to his political homeland in the south part of the state, attending a rally with local legislative candidates in Vineland.
''From what I sense here, this enthusiasm, this willingness to stick to it,'' Mr. Florio said, ''it's an indication that tomorrow we're all going to be celebrating.''
Mr. Florio has recently campaigned with legislative candidates, as the Democrats hope to win back the majority in the Assembly, now held by Republicans 41-39.
 
Rally at a Race Track
Mr. Florio ended the day at a rally at Garden State Park, a Cherry Hill horse-racing track where his campaign aides said he was met by about 2,000 supporters.
Mr. Courter, dismissing recent polls, campaigned with local candidates at a nutritional center for elderly people in Lyndhurst. He discussed his proposal to hold down property taxes of homeowners who are 65 or older, and, as he has often done during the last month, he reminded voters of New Jersey's high unemployment and inflation under the administration of Brendan T. Byrne, the Democrat who preceded Governor Kean.
''I have an abiding faith that the people of New Jersey are not going to want to go back,'' Mr. Courter said.
He then traveled to Ocean County, where his aides have said he must do well with independent and swing voters to have any chance of victory, to shake hands with shoppers at the Foodtown Shopping Center on Route 37.
Mr. Courter then dipped down into his opponent's Congressional district, greeting commuters at the Lindenwold station of the Patco high speed rail line.
He ended the day by returning to Hackettstown, where he lives, to join his family at a favorite-son thank you rally at David's Country Inn on Main Street.

GRAPHIC: On the final day of campaigning in New Jersey, Representative James J. Florio greeted commuters in Newark, where he was joined by Mayor Sharpe James (NYT/William E. Sauro); Representative Jim Courter greeted Justin Jenkins, 2 years old, on a visit to Lyndhurst. (NYT/John Sotomayor) (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CHERRY HILL TOYOTA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); LEGISLATURES GOVERNORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (77%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); AGING (60%); RETAILERS (60%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (55%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (55%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (REPR); COURTER, JIM (REPR); KEAN, THOMAS H (GOV) JAMES A COURTER (91%); 



170 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE IN INDIANA LOOMS ON GAMBLING

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: GARY, Ind., Nov. 6

 BODY:
Voters in this economically depressed steel town endorsed casino gambling by a wide margin in a nonbinding referendum Saturday, clearing the way for a battle in the State Legislature over casino legislation.
Mayor Thomas V. Barnes of Gary and other casino advocates say the city could support five casino-hotels on the shore of Lake Michigan; they would create 25,000 casino-related jobs and 10,000 for construction workers, the advocates say.
Those figures, coupled with a 60.4 percent vote in favor of casinos, make a strong case, the advocates say. Of the 22,042 people who voted, 13,309 favored casinos and 8,733 were opposed. The turnout was 32.3 percent. 
 
Revitalization as the Pitch
''An opportunity for jobs and economic revitalization - that's going to be the pitch,'' said State Representative Earline S. Rogers, a Gary Democrat.
Gov. Evan Bayh remained opposed, but said, ''I'm opposed to casino gambling, but I'm willing to sit down and look at all the arguments for and against and I have yet to do that. You never say never.''
There is little chance that a casino bill will get far in the Legislature in 1990 if the Governor threatens a veto, said the State House's Republican speaker, Paul S. Mannweiler.
 
Lobbyist Sees 50% Chance
''The more we tell our story, the more people look at the numbers, the more inclined they are to look at the opportunity favorably,'' said Robert Spolyar, a lobbyist for a casino operator, Resorts International of Atlantic City. ''I think we've got a 50 percent chance and I'm conservative.''
Governor Bayh said he believed the referendum result was important but uncompelling, given the low turnout.
Mayor Barnes said the turnout was modest because it was the first time an election had been held on a Saturday. It was an experiment with electronic voting machines that intimidated some voters, as did saving money by opening just 18 polling places instead of the usual 155.
Any effort to bring gambling here faces strong moral objections, said Mr. Mannweiler, the State House Republican speaker: ''In my mind, even though Gary says this is a local-option issue, that we ought to help Gary help themselves, casino gambling is not something I look very favorably on seeing in the State of Indiana anywhere.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (95%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: GARY, IN, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE HOUSE PRESS (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GARY (INDIANA); INDIANA

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; CASINOS CASINOS (95%); GAMING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); VETO (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (74%); RESORTS (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); 

PERSON: EVAN BAYH (58%); 



171 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants' Town Is Divided Over Measure on Language

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOWELL, Mass., Nov. 3

 BODY:
This riverfront city of old textile mills and factories has always drawn immigrants by the thousands. First there were the Irish and the Italians, then the Greeks and Poles. Most recently, Latin Americans and Southeast Asians have migrated here for jobs.
Relations among the various groups have not always been smooth, and a nonbinding measure on Tuesday's ballot that would declare English the city's official language has produced an ugly division between those who back it and those who say it could create a tool of oppression if it was re-introduced as a binding measure. 
Mayor Richard P. Howe says the issue has needlessly brought racial and ethnic animosity to the surface in a relatively peaceful period. But the measure's sponsor, George D. Kouloheras, a member of the School Committee, says he does not want to inflict pain on any ethnic group but simply wants to protect a language ''under attack.''
Nearly 40 percent of Lowell's 100,000 residents are Asian or Hispanic and no one disputes the value of conducting most of the city's affairs in English. But some worry that the move might be a first step toward policies that discriminate against people who cannot speak English, or cannot speak it well.
 
Divisive, a Cambodian Says
''I feel it is a divisive community strategy,'' said Boran Reth, president of the Cambodian Mutual Assistance Association here, who came to the United States in 1981 after his family was killed in the Cambodian civil war. ''The Cambodian community feels that they are not welcome in this city, and the purpose of this seems to be to punish the people who cannot speak English or speak English with accents.''
Mr. Kouloheras, whose parents emigrated from Greece at the turn of the 20th century, has joined the Washington-based organization U.S. English, which promotes the use of English in government.
''We have sort of a laissez-faire attitude that English is our language,'' Mr. Kouloheras said, ''and it is best to establish some principles that will guide the courts and policymakers in the future. It's best to take benign action now before the problem reaches a crisis. The minority language population continues to grow.''
''These measures are always so vague,'' said Martha Jimenez, a staff attorney and policy analyst for the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund in Washington, ''and no one is really sure what they mean. But the pattern has been for people to interpret them on their own, and it leads to an increase in private discrimination. People try not to be overtly racist, because they don't want to be labeled, so to a great extent language can be used as a proxy for that.''
 
Trouble Where There Wasn't Any
The referendum, coming when Lowell and much of Massachusetts are in an economic slowdown, seems to have prompted ill will toward recent immigrants. Lowell now has 25,000 Cambodians here and several hundred Vietnamese, Thai and Laotian families.
''This has brought out the anger and resentment and frustration that hadn't seemed to be a problem recently,'' Mayor Howe said. ''People are calling up radio talk shows to express their objections to Southeast Asians in the city. We were well on our way to making this system work when along comes George,'' a reference to Mr. Kouloheras.
Desegregation of Lowell's schools, begun in 1987, is now all but complete, with busing to classrooms beyond students' neighborhoods for racial balance. The plan had been hotly disputed. Shortly after it went into effect a young Cambodian boy, fighting with another boy as both waited for a bus, was pushed into a canal and drowned.
Most Asians came here in the last five years, and that has has strained on services, especially the school system. Last year the city spent $10 million of its $51 million budget on bilingual education and busing to keep the schools integrated.
 
The Influx of Children
About 3,400 of the 13,000 students are Asian, and 2,000 are Hispanic. Last year, Mayor Howe said, Asian children arrived at a rate of 30 to 50 a week, forcing the school system to rent extra classrooms and hire bilingual teachers. Many Cambodian children spent their earliest years in Thai refugee camps and came here with no formal education, Mr. Boran Reth said.
The superintendent of schools, Henry J. Mroz, said he favored extra Federal aid to help cover the costs of educating children who came with no English. ''It's all right to welcome people in,'' he said, ''but you have to provide for them.''
Mr. Mroz said he expected the referendum to win approval from most voters. The school committee endorsed it last week. ''It's not to divide people,'' Mr. Kouloheras said. ''It's to unite people. E pluribus unum.''

GRAPHIC: In Lowell, Mass., a measure that would declare English the city's official language has been endorsed by the school committee. Superintendent Henry J. Mroz, shown with first graders and their teacher, Martha Moriarity, said he expects the measure to be approved. (NYT/Rick Friedman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (91%); GREECE (73%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOWELL (MASS)

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; ASIAN-AMERICANS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); TEXTILE MILLS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); REFERENDUMS (76%); MAYORS (75%); ETHNICITY (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); LAWYERS (66%); 



172 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Boeing has agreed to plead guilty to two felony charges of illegally obtaining Pentagon documents, Government officials said. A guilty plea by Boeing raises the possibility that the company could be barred from bidding on military contracts, but the Pentagon said such a restriction ''would not be automatic.'' [Page A1.] The strike that has virtually shut Boeing's airplane production for five weeks is starting to hurt the Seattle economy. [A16.] 
 
Braniff said it was ceasing all passenger service immediately because a cash shortage doomed its reorganization plan. [D1.]
 
Southland agreed to sell the remaining 50 percent of the Citgo Petroleum Corporation to Venezuela's oil company. The deal would make Venezuela the first OPEC member to own all of a large American oil refiner and marketer. [D1.]
 
Shearson Lehman Hutton warned its employees to brace for more layoffs in the next few weeks. [D5.]
 
A Federal judge ordered a Chapter 7 liquidation in the bankruptcy case of William Herbert Hunt because two creditors are unable to reach a compromise. [D5.]
 
About $5.4 billion in Sears, Roebuck debt is being reviewed by Standard & Poor's for a possible downgrading of its ratings. [D17.]
 
The Los Angeles Times is trying to attract readers of The Los Angeles Herald Examiner, which has ceased publication. [D21.]
 
Compaq Computer introduced two new products that sharply expand the high end of personal computer performance. [C14.]
 
A Michigan utility wants to convert the Shoreham nuclear plant on Long Island to a power generator fueled by natural gas. But Lilco is now skeptical that the Shoreham plant is needed. [B2.]
 
MARKETS
 
The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 47.34 points, to 2,582.17, as waves of futures-related trading battered the stock market. The Dow is about 13 points above the level it reached on Oct. 13, when it plunged 190.58 points. [D1].
 
The Treasury was forced to delay its auction of three- and six-month bills because Congress failed to raise the debt ceiling. Meanwhile, prices of notes and bonds fell in very light trading. [D1.] 'Junk bond' prices made slight gains in light trading. [D17.]
 
Jail terms were given to the managing partner of Princeton/ Newport and the five other defendants convicted of creating illegal tax losses through fraudulent stock trades [D1.]
 
Precious-metal futures prices rose, with gold gaining $2.80 to $3.10 an ounce. [D18.] The dollar closed higher against most leading currencies in quiet, uninspired trading. [D18.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
The Supreme Court cleared the way for the reorganization of A. H. Robins and the payment of up to $2.5 billion in damages to women injured by the Dalkon Shield. [D6.]
 
Nine state and local government groups are discussing the formation of a new body to set accounting standards, one that would be independent of the Financial Accounting Foundation. [D2.]
 
Regulators announced more stringent financial standards for savings institutions and reported another heavy loss for the industry in the July-September quarter. [D9.] The House Banking Committee postponed for two weeks the testimony of Charles H. Keating Jr., the former owner of the collapsed Lincoln Savings. [D9.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Pepsico and Southwestern Bell are reporting success in their efforts to control their medical costs. Business and Health. [D2.]
 
Freeport-McMoran Energy Partners attracted investors with a tempting offer: a guaranteed 10 percent yield, with much or all of it free from Federal taxes. But the high dividends have not been enough to offset the falling value of the partnership units. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D10.]
 
The California State Lottery has narrowed the candidates for its $50 million advertising account to four. Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (90%); BAB (BRU) (90%); BA (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (90%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (82%); CITGO PETROLEUM CORP (70%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS GUILTY PLEAS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); BONDS (89%); FUTURES (88%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (87%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); FELONIES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); METALS MARKETS (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); DAMAGES (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); NATURAL GAS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); US DOLLAR (74%); AIRCRAFT MFG (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); JUDGES (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (72%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (71%); DEBT CEILING (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); POWER PLANTS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); CURRENCIES (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (64%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); 



173 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Debt Ceiling Delays Sale By Treasury

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The Treasury was forced to postpone its scheduled weekly auction of three- and six-month bills yesterday because Congress failed to pass legislation raising the debt limit.
Continued delay in passing the debt limit bill casts doubt on whether the Treasury will be able to proceed with its planned quarterly refunding auctions later this week, when $40 billion worth of securities are to be sold.
Those auctions are tentatively scheduled to start today, with the sale of $10 billion worth of three-year Treasury notes. Late yesterday the Treasury said it would not announce a postponement of the issue until this morning, if necessary. 
Meanwhile, prices of Treasury notes and bonds moved lower in very light trading yesterday.
''The market is a little weaker due to the uncertainty and disappointment in not knowing what is going to happen,'' one government bond trader said.
''But when the auctions finally do take place we will see good demand for the issues, including foreign demand,'' the trader said. ''Even though the employment numbers last week didn't show weakness, a lot of folks out there think the odds are strong we will have a recession in the next six months or so. At current yields, that makes the return on the new securities look attractive.''
Some of the price declines recorded early in yesterday's session were made up later when it became apparent that stock prices, which were down sharply from the opening bell, would not recover. For the day, the Dow Jones indusrial average fell by 47.34 points.
Among Treasury issues, the 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price of 101 31/32 late yesterday, down 1/4 of a point, to yield 7.95 percent. Early in the session the closely watched issue was off by as much as 3/8 of a point.
In the secondary note market, the 8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 100 7/32, down 2/32, to yield 7.96 percent. And the 7 5/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 99 10/32, down 1/32, to yield 8.00 percent.
Meanwhile, Treasury bill rates rose modestly.
 
Three-Month Bill Rates
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.83 percent, up two basis points, or hundredths of a point. And six-month bill rates were up one basis point, to a late offered rate of 7.68 percent.
The current logjam in Congress over the debt ceiling is causing some anxiety on Wall Street, but the current situation is not without precedent.
Conditions were strikingly similar in November 1985, when debate over the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget bill delayed an increase in the debt ceiling. The quarterly refunding auctions were held up as a consequence, although all three segments were eventually sold to investors by the end of November.
Louis v.B. Crandall, chief economist at R.H. Wrightson & Associates, an economic consulting firm, said that at least one of the auctions was likely to be delayed.
''As things now stand, the Treasury will run out of cash on Thursday,'' he said.
''To meet cash needs, their first priority will be to sell the Treasury bills that were postponed on Monday. After that, they will probably sell securities with the shortest maturities, because they need the least amount of handling. As a result, we think sale of the 30-year bond portion of the refunding will be delayed until after Nov. 15, the normal settlement date for the auctions.''
Activity in the corporate debt market was highlighted by the sale of $300 million of 30-year debentures for the United Technologies Corporation.
The 8 7/8 percent issue, which includes language to protect investors against so-called event-risk, was priced at $98.974, to yield 8.974 percent, one percentage point over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 1/8 percent bonds at the time of pricing.
Bear, Stearns & Company acted as lead manager on the transaction, which is rated AA-3 by Moody's Investors Service and AA-minus by the Standard & Poor's Corporation. The event-risk language was rated E-3 by S.& P. In response to falling interest rates, new corporate debt issuance last month soared by 57 percent from September levels, to $12.51 billion, analysts at Moody's reported yesterday. October was the most active month since May, when $14.21 billion worth of corporate debt was issued.
For the first 10 months of the year, companies have issued $93.97 billion worth of debt securities, Moody's said, up slightly from $92.35 billion issued over the coresponding period a year ago.
Activity in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds was light yesterday, dealers reported. Prices of most issues rose by about 1/8 of a point.
Participants in the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds said that prices of most issues also rose by about 1/8 of a point on slow trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; NATIONAL DEBT (US) DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); DEBT CEILING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



174 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela to Buy Rest of Citgo

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Nov. 6

 BODY:
In what would be the first case of an OPEC member owning all of a large American oil refiner and marketer, Venezuela's state-owned oil company said today that it had agreed to acquire the remaining 50 percent of the Citgo Petroleum Corporation.
Petroleos de Venezuela, which bought half of Citgo from the Southland Corporation three years ago for $400 million, said it had reached a preliminary agreement to pay $675 million in cash for the rest of Citgo. Southland said the final terms of the deal were still being discussed.
Southland, which owns the 7-Eleven chain of convenience stores, said it would continue selling the Citgo brand of gasoline at pumps at its stores. The company, based in Dallas, has been selling assets to raise cash to lower debt taken on two years ago when Southland was taken private in a $4.9 billion buyout. 
 
Looking to the Future
Rosario S. Ilacqua, an analyst at Nikko Securities International Inc. in New York, said members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries wanted to assure future outlets for their oil production, and the United States was the world's biggest market.
Two other OPEC members, Saudi Arabia and Nigeria, have already made moves into the American market.
A year ago, Saudi Arabia paid $1.28 billion in cash and oil for 50 percent of Texaco Inc.'s refining and marketing system in 23 Eastern and Gulf Coast states. Last month, the National Petroleum Corporation in Nigeria signed an agreement to buy 49 percent of a Kansas refinery for an undisclosed amount from Farmland Industries.
''These foreign countries now have a vested interest in the U.S. refining and marketing industry,'' said Victor Burk, the managing director of Arthur Andersen & Company's oil and gas industry services program in Houston. ''They will be interested in maintaining as much stability as possible in the oil and gas industry.''
Last year, Citgo was the nation's ninth-largest gasoline marketer, selling 5.2 billion gallons, according to National Petroleum News, an industry publication. Most of its sales were through outlets in the South, Southwest and Midwest. Of its 7,700 retail outlets, 1,856 were 7-Eleven stores operated by Southland.
Citgo, based in Tulsa, Okla., has been increasingly profitable in recent years. It earned $75.7 million for the first half of the year, matching its profits from the corresponding period in 1988 - its most profitable year. Over all, the company's profits nearly doubled in 1988, to $165.6 million, compared with $85.7 million in 1987. Its sales last year totaled $4.1 billion, compared with $3.9 billion in 1987.
The company's prime asset is a large oil refinery in Lake Charles, La., which has a daily capacity of 320,000 barrels. Citgo also owns the fourth-largest refinery in North America for industrial lubricants, and a compounding plant in Cicero, Ill. The company valued its assets at $1.4 billion at the end of June.
Philip K. Verleger Jr., a petroleum economist who is a visiting fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, said market values for refineries had risen along with gasoline demand in the United States.
He added that it was unclear how Petroleos de Venezuela would finance the purchase.
 
Request to Creditors
The drop in oil prices in the last three years has forced the Venezuelan Government to tighten its belt. The country's Minister of Planning, Miguel Rodriguez Fandeo, recently asked its bank creditors in the United States to write off half of their outstanding loans to his Government.
Markeeta McNatt, a Southland spokeswoman, said the company would apply all of the proceeds from the Citgo sale to reducing its bank debt, which totaled $1.54 billion at the end of June. The net cash proceeds from the deal should amount to more than $500 million, she said.
The spokeswoman said Southland was ahead of its goal to regain profitability by retiring most of the bank debt by 1993.
Southland has been on a financial tightrope for two years, since borrowing the $4.9 billion for the leveraged buyout in December 1987. It raised $744 million last year by auctioning 6 subsidiaries, 910 convenience stores and other properties.
 
Income Falls Short
But operating income for Southland's approximately 7,000 7-Eleven and other convenience stores has fallen short of the projections included in the buyout plan. In May, Jere W. Thompson, Southland's president and chief executive, said the company was considering the Citgo sale, as well as that of several distribution and food-processing centers.
Southland, the nation's 12th-largest retailer before it began shedding its assets, lost $236.4 million in the six months that ended in June, compared with a loss of $132.4 million in the 1988 period. Its interest costs were $287.4 million in the first half of the year, compared with $277 million.
The company acquired Citgo from the Occidental Petroleum Corporation in 1983 for $780 million.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 9, 1989, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about the oil company Petroleos de Venezuela misstated aspects of the agreement to add the Southland Corporation's 50 percent stake in Citgo Petroleum to the 50 percent it already owned. Petroleos paid $290 million, not $400 million, for the stake that it bought in 1986. Southland says it is ahead of schedule in paying off $1.54 billion in bank debt due in 1993; it has not said it expects to become profitable by that year. Because of an editing error, the article also misattributed an estimate of the cash Southland would receive. The company did not provide a figure; $500 million was The Times's estimate, based on available information.

GRAPHIC: chart of 10 largest chains of gasoline stations (Source: National Petroleum News Factbook)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (67%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (65%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CITGO PETROLEUM CORP (72%); CHEVRON CORP (67%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP (65%); PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (58%); 7-ELEVEN INC (57%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITGO PETROLEUM CORP; PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA; SOUTHLAND CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VENEZUELA

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); CONVENIENCE STORES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); INDUSTRIAL LUBRICANTS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C



175 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Programs Send Dow Down 47.34

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
The stock market was engulfed in several waves of futures-related trading yesterday that sent the Dow Jones industrial average down 47.34 points, to 2,582.17.
While that is about 13 points higher than the level of 2,569.26 that the Dow reached on Oct. 13, when it plunged 190.58 points in a sudden selloff, most other major averages ended the day below their October lows, indicating that the post-Oct. 13 rebound has been almost erased.
Declines on the New York Stock Exchange, at 1,180, far outnumbered the 355 issues that gained in price, and that performance was reflected in the broader measures of the market.
 
S.&P. 500 Down 5.01 Points
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 5.01 points, closing at 332.61, while the New York Stock Exchange composite index dropped 2.51 points, to 184.77. 
On the American Stock Exchange, the market-value index dropped 3.11 points, to 368.68, while in over-the-counter trading, the Nasdaq composite index plunged 4.95 points, to 448.02.
However, some market participants said that the Dow's 1.8 percent decline was exaggerated because it occurred in thin trading. Although New York Stock Exchange volume was up from 131.5 million shares on Friday, it was at a still slow 135.5 million shares yesterday.
 
Producer Prices Awaited
Robert E. Walsh, a portfolio manager at Jenswold, King & Associates in Houston, said, ''Investor complacency is likely to continue until the next meaningful clue on inflation is revealed on Thursday when the Producer Price Index for October is announced.''
A significant factor in the selling was index arbitrage programs that involved the selling of shares and the purchase of stock index futures, notwithstanding a plea last week by the Big Board that all traders refrain from program trades, which have been blamed for much of the market's volatility.
Market participants attributed some of the selling to continuing disappointment over third-quarter earnings, apprehension about fourth-quarter results and sharply lower bond prices.
The Dow was off nearly 15 points in the first half-hour of trading, stabilized a bit, and then began a slow but steady decline to a 45-point deficit about 2:30 P.M. It then recovered about 10 points, which one trader attributed to some buying programs. But it plunged again about a half-hour before the final bell.
The Big Board's proposed rules that would temporarily halt the use of exchange computers for program trades after the Dow has fallen as little as 30 points are not yet in effect because they are awaiting approval by the Securities and Exchange Commission, a Big Board spokeswoman said. No so-called circuit breakers that temporarily delay trading in either the stock or stock index futures markets were set off by the decline.
One stock index trader said that the sell programs occurred at the opening, 10:15 A.M., 11:10 A.M., 1:25 P.M., 2:10 P.M. and shortly before the final bell.
''My guess would be that most of the heavy program trading was done by investment advisory firms that do index arbitrage for institutional clients since many brokerage firms are on their best behavior in the current furor surrounding program trading,'' he said.
 
I.B.M. Declines 1 7/8, to 96 5/8
Among individual stocks, I.B.M. fell 1 7/8, to 96 5/8, trading as low as 96 1/2, the lowest level for that stock since early 1983. ''It's not computerized stock trading that is destroying this market; it's trading in computer stocks,'' one trader quipped. But Compaq, which plunged on disappointing earnings forecasts last week, recovered 3/4, to 89 3/4, as it introduced a new personal computer.
Amax was the most active stock, slipping 1/8, to 22 1/4. The stock went ex dividend yesterday.
Philip Morris was the second-most-active issue, falling 1 3/8, to 40 3/4. Allan Kaplan, an analyst for Merrill Lynch & Company, lowered his rating on the company to ''above average'' from ''aggressive buy,'' citing higher rates of taxation on tobacco at the state level.
UAL, the parent of United Airlines, fell 4 1/2, to 180 1/4, even though a principal in Conistan Partners said he remained optimistic that some type of transaction could be achieved at UAL.
Ryder System jumped 1 1/4, to 22 3/4, after the transportation services company announced that the Itel Corporation had indicated its intention to purchase at least $15 million worth of Ryder's stock. Itel, which is involved in container leasing, slipped 3/8, to 21 1/4.
Active blue chips yesterday included Ford Motor, off 1 3/4, to 43 7/8, and Chevron, down 4, to 64 5/8, as takeover speculation surrounding the company appeared to ebb.
Precious metals stocks continued last week's strength as Newmont Gold rose 1 7/8, to 43 7/8; Newmont Mining 1 1/2, to 42 7/8, and ASA 3/4, to 52 3/8.

GRAPHIC: favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); NYSE MKT LLC (56%); KING & ASSOCIATES (54%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); APPROVALS (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H



176 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Shearson Warns Staff More Cuts Are Likely

BYLINE: By SARAH BARTLETT

 BODY:
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. warned its employees yesterday to brace for another round of layoffs in the next few weeks, and officials said privately that the number of those dismissed could be as high as 700 to 800 people.
Shearson's staff reduction would be the largest in many months on Wall Street, and it is likely to add to pressures on the local economy.
A spokesman for the company said the cuts would occur across the board, in all departments. But, he said, those with back office functions, like operations and systems management, are likely to be the most affected. At last count, the firm had 38,500 employees. 
Shearson executives attributed the layoffs to a continuing slowdown in the financial markets.
In a note to employees, Shearson said the decision had been taken after a review of the firm's expenses and in light of an impending move by a number of its employees to a new office building it has constructed in lower Manhattan.
In the third quarter, although commissions rose, Shearson's investment banking revenues were the weakest they have been for almost two years. That is a reflection in part of a dearth of corporate underwritings as well as a slowdown in the merger and acquisition business.
Like other firms, Shearson is also expected to have a decline in trading profits this quarter as a result of the stock market's recent plunge and the general pressure on takeover stocks.
Adding more pressure to Shearson is the fact that on Oct. 30, Moody's Investor Service placed Shearson's debt and commercial paper under review for a possible downgrade. In doing so, it cited the industry's profitability problems as well as Shearson's exposure to commercial real estate through one of its subsidiaries. A downgrade would raise the cost to Shearson of financing its activities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHEARSON LEHMAN HUTTON INC

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (LABOR) LAYOFFS (92%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); MERGERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (70%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (64%); 

PERSON: BARTLETT, SARAH



177 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: Philippine Debt Is Rescheduled

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: MANILA, Nov. 6

 BODY:
The Philippines and the United States have agreed to reschedule payments on $362.2 million of Manila's debt, the Philippine Finance Secretary, Vicente Jayme, said Sunday.
The United States was the first creditor to carry out an agreed rescheduling of Manila's $2.2 billion debt under a pact with the Paris Club. Mr. Jayme said the Philippines hopes to agree on rescheduling terms with 13 other club members before the end of this year. 
 
United States Ambassador
Nicholas Platt said the agreement provided ''a breathing space for the Philippine economy'' and was ''intended to support the democratically elected Government.''
President Corazon C. Aquino, who began state visits to the United States and Canada Saturday, said her trip would focus on increasing trade and investment and securing debt relief.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); PHILIPPINES (94%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (91%); 

COMPANY: PARIS CLUB (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PHILIPPINES, REPUBLIC OF THE

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PHILIPPINES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (85%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); 



178 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Rules Issued to Saving Units; Losses Seen

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 6

 BODY:
Federal regulators today announced new, more stringent financial standards for the nation's savings institutions and predicted another heavy loss for the industry in the July-September quarter.
The financial standards, released by the Office of Thrift Supervision in Washington, will require owners of savings and loan associations to back their lending with more of their own capital starting Dec. 7.
The standards, required by savings-industry rescue legislation enacted three months ago, are intended to provide a bigger cushion of capital to absorb losses from bad loans before an institution fails. 
Speaking at the annual convention of the United States League of Savings Institutions here, James Barth, chief economist of the Office of Thrift Supervision, said industry losses would total at least $2.5 billion in the third quarter. If Mr. Barth's projections prove to be correct when the official third-quarter results are reported next month, it will be the best quarter since a $1.8 billion loss in the third quarter 1988.
 
Rate of Losses Slowing
Savings institutions lost a record $13.4 billion last year. This year's losses, $9.7 billion in the first nine months, are running slightly behind the 1988 pace.
Still, depositors withdrew about $9 billion more than they deposited in September, Mr. Barth said. This amount compares with $5.1 billion in August and is close to the record $10.8 billion in January, he said.
The thrift office estimated that 800 of the nation's 2,600 solvent savings institutions, holding about 45 percent of the industry's $1.3 trillion in assets, fall nearly $20 billion short of the new capital standard.
Brian P. Smith, the league's regulatory expert, said several hundred savings institutions would be able to reduce or otherwise adjust their balance sheets to meet the standard quickly. But about 300 will likely fail and several hundred others will take longer to comply, he said.
Because regulators will impose growth controls on institutions lacking capital, some customers of savings institutions may find it more difficult to get a loan, Mr. Smith said.
Mr. Barth said institutions have been anticipating the capital rules since the summer by selling assets, such as loans and real estate. In September, savings institutions sold $15 billion in assets, up from a record $13.4 billion in August.
 
Money Rift Imperils Closings
In another matter, the chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, L. William Seidman, warned that his agency might have to suspend closing the 260 failed savings institutions in its control unless Congress and the Administration resolve a money dispute in a few weeks.
The savings legislation enacted in August provides $50 billion to handle roughly 500 failed institutions. But the F.D.I.C. needs to borrow at least an additional $50 billion that would be repaid as it sold loans and real estate acquired from failed institutions, Mr. Seidman said.
Without the temporary money, the F.D.I.C. could either raise cash by the quick sale of properties once owned by savings institutions - a move likely to unsettle already depressed real estate markets - or it will have to keep money-losing institutions open, adding to the burden on taxpayers, he said.
The F.D.I.C., he said, is caught in a dispute between the Bush Administration, which wants the additional borrowing kept out of the Federal budget, and Democrats in Congress, who want the borrowing in the budget, which would swell the deficit by tens of billions of dollars and increase pressure on President Bush to agree to a tax increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (81%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (81%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (84%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; FORECASTS SAVINGS & LOANS (93%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); 



179 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Bank Choice On Mexico

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 6

 BODY:
Mexico has received replies from 42 percent of its foreign creditor banks on a debt renegotiation plan, and 90 percent of them are opting to reduce principal and interest rather than grant new loans, the official news agency Notimex said today.
Notimex, quoting unidentified banking sources in New York, said the banks hold $21.8 billion of the $52.7 billion in private debt covered by the renegotiation agreement. 
The agreement, reached in July with a committee of 15 of the creditor banks, gives banks three options: they can cut principal, cut interest or grant new loans.
Notimex said 53 percent of the banks that have informed the creditor committee of their decisions are opting to cut principal, while 37 percent are cutting interest and 10 percent will make new loans.
The committee, which is headed by Citibank in New York, represents nearly 500 banks.
The renegotiation agreement has been hailed by Mexican officials as a big step toward resolving Mexico's foreign debt crisis. Mexico owes a total of more than $107 billion to private and government creditors. It is the second-largest foreign debt in the developing world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); 



180 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 18, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Mostly Higher In Dull Day and Gold Rises

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended higher yesterday against most important currencies in quiet, uninspired trading.
Gold prices also rose. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery closed at $381.50 an ounce, up $3 from Friday. The Republic National Bank of New York quoted a late bid for gold at $380.25 an ounce, up $2.55.
Currency traders said technical factors within the market, fueled by continued firmness in interest rates, were largely responsible for the dollar's rise in New York. Overseas, trading was also described as featureless.
''It was very, very quiet; there's no particular trend at the moment,'' said a trader at a large Frankfurt bank.
In New York, the dollar rose to 143.85 yen, up from 143.25 yen Friday. The dollar fell to $1.5767 against the pound from $1.5685.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Friday's quotes, included: 1.85325 West German marks, up from 1.84675; 1.6245 Swiss francs, up from 1.6205; 6.2820 French francs, up from 6.2630; 1,356.50 Italian lire, unchanged, and 1.17075 Canadian dollars, down from 1.17235.
Late dollar rates in Europe, compared with Friday, were: 1.8517 West German marks, up from 1.8470; 1.6240 Swiss francs, up from 1.6210; 6.2805 French francs, up from 6.2620; 2.0910 Dutch guilders, up from 2.0825; 1,357.25 Italian lire, up from 1,356.25, and 1.1712 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1723.
Silver prices were mixed. On New York's Comex, silver for current delivery rose to $5.238 an ounce, from $5.227 late Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (84%); HSB (PAR) (84%); HBC (NYSE) (84%); 0005 (HKSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (84%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); 



181 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Careers;
Europeans Seek M.B.A. Candidates

BYLINE: By Elizabeth M. Fowler

 BODY:
EIGHT foreign business schools held a two-day forum in New York on Friday and Saturday to raise interest among prospective students. And some of their deans have been visiting around the country hoping to lure good teachers away from leading American graduate schools of business, permanently or temporarily.
As students entered the meeting room in the Essex House hotel, they were asked to fill out an application and they received a brochure with six colorful national flags on its cover -Dutch, Swiss, French, British, Spanish and Italian, denoting the nationalities of the business schools whose representatives manned tables around the room. The brochure was called ''Your M.B.A. in Europe.'' 
There is little doubt that thousands of young Americans aged 23 to 30 and over are interested in getting an M.B.A. abroad. The forum was attended by more than 500 prospective students.
The foreign business schools confirmed the interest. Claire Guedron-Pike, director of the M.B.A. program at the Institut Europeen d'Administration des Affaires, or the Insead Business School, in Fontainebleau, France, said: ''We had more than 3,000 applications from 50 countries for 420 vacancies this year. The 210 who started in September included about 21 Americans. The 210 who will start in January will include about the same number.''
Insead began in 1959, and for the first 10 years no women applied. ''One of our first woman graduates in 1968 was Helene Ploix, now an executive director of the International Monetary Fund in Washington,'' Ms. Guedron-Pike said.
Insead, unlike most American graduate business schools, has language requirements. Students must know English and French well enough to understand lectures in both languages. Before the intensive 11 months of study ends, they must pick up a third language, if they lack it. In contrast, the Rotterdam School of Management, which is part of Erasmus University in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, has classes in English.
Foreign language ability is not a strong point at American graduate schools of business, with exceptions like Thunderbird, the American Graduate School of International Management in Arizona, which emphasizes international affairs, but several have begun to stress foreign languages and look kindly on applicants who speak other languages in addition to English.
S.D.A. Bocconi, affiliated with the University of Bocconi, Milan, Italy, is bilingual, but Dr. Luigi V. Tava, the director of the M.B.A. program, spoke of a section to begin next fall where the teaching will be in English - a move to attract more English-speaking students. They are expected to pick up sufficient Italian late in the program to be literate in Italian. He also mentioned a new master's program for those not wanting an M.B.A. but needing management background for jobs with organizations like the International Monetary Fund.
'' I am going to Boston to Harvard Business School to persuade some professors to teach at our school during their sabbaticals next year,'' he said, indicating the difficulty for foreign schools at a time of a worldwide shortage of teachers with doctorates in business subjects.
The length of the programs varies as widely as the nationalities of the schools. For example, I.E.S.E., the Insituto de Estudios Superiores de la Empresa, which is affiliated with the University of Navarre and is in Barcelona, Spain, offers a two-year bilingual course in Spanish and English, with a summer in between for working on a company project, very much like traditional two-year programs at most American graduate business schools. Two - namely Insead and the International Institute for Management Development, or I.M.D., in Lausanne, Switzerland - offer accelerated M.B.A.'s that can be completed within a year of intensive work.
The cost of these schools is roughly in line with American business schools, although the comparison is not exact because of different student housing and eating arrangements as well as the length of study. For example, the I.M.D. program costs about $20,000 for the intensive yearlong program with free lunch and a month's vacation.
Interest in the foreign business schools has grown this year for varied reasons. More and more American companies recruit at major European business schools for international staffs. Some applicants want short, intense programs. Many like the idea of studying in Europe, looking ahead to 1992, when trade barriers drop - an economic challenge for business worldwide.
Some of the eight schools consider students on the basis of personality and experience, as well as the Graduate Management Admission Test. Most require personal interviews. But the number of openings is relatively small. Europe in recent years has been graduating 3,000 M.B.A. students a year from its leading schools compared with 70,000 in the United States.
The other schools represented at the forum were the Institut Superieur des Affaires, or I.S.A., in Jouy-en-Josas, France; the London Business School, London, and the Manchester Business School, Manchester, England.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CAREERS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ESSEX HOUSE HOTEL (57%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FOREIGN STUDENTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WOMEN (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M SIR GEORGE YOUNG (56%); 



182 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: DINKINS DEFEATS GIULIANI IN A CLOSE RACE; WILDER SEEMS VIRGINIA WINNER, FLORIO IN; VOTERS, 5-4, APPROVE NEW YORK CHARTER;
FLORIO VICTORIOUS IN JERSEY BATTLE

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
Representative James J. Florio swept to a lopsided victory yesterday in the race for governor of New Jersey as voters rejected the campaign of his Republican opponent, Representative Jim Courter, who promised to fight crime, taxes and big government.
With 98 percent of 5,845 precincts reporting at 12:35 A.M. today, the vote was:
 
Florio 1,321,065 (62%)
 
Courter 794,633 (38%)
The Democrats also regained control of the State Assembly.
''One New Jersey that's cleaner and greener, that's what we strive for,'' Mr. Florio said last night before 800 jubilant supporters at the Ramada Renaissance Hotel in East Brunswick. ''We sent a message of hope and determination to those who believe, as I do, in a woman's right to choose.''
The Democrat will succeed the two-term Republican incumbent, Thomas H. Kean. 
 
Activist Approach Embraced
According to a New York Times/ WCBS-TV News Poll of voters leaving polling places, New Jerseyans overwhelmingly rejected the conservative message of Mr. Courter and embraced Mr. Florio's activist approach to government.
In a harsh campaign marked by sharply negative television ads by both candidates, Mr. Florio promised to crack down on the automobile insurance industry and environmental polluters.
Mr. Courter conceded at 9:20 P.M. before supporters at the Hanover Marriott Hotel in Whippany. Congratulating Mr. Florio, he said: ''Tonight we have fallen short of our goal, but we can hold our heads high because ours was a campaign of ideas and principles. Ours was a positive campaign.''
Sounding themes that contrasted sharply with the Democrat's, Mr. Courter had promised to extend the politics of Ronald Reagan into the 1990's in New Jersey. Above all, he promised to continue prosperity by keeping taxes from rising.
The two men clashed in a state that was blessed by enormous economic growth in recent years and where Governor Kean was highly popular. But it is also a state where voters are increasingly anxious about the congestion and pollution that growth have created.
Among the issues that propelled Mr. Florio to victory, the poll showed, were New Jerseyans' concerns over high automobile insurance premiums, the environment in the heavily developed state and abortion - issues that the Democrat stressed throughout the race.
 
Right to Abortion Backed
The poll showed that a majority of New Jersey voters wanted no changes in current abortion laws and that those concerned about abortion voted more than 2 to 1 for the Democrat.
Mr. Florio won in all areas of the state outside Mr. Courter's Congressional district, among whites and blacks, men and women. Three of 10 Republicans gave Mr. Florio their support, with Republican men and women voting for the Democrat in similar proportions.
In Congress Mr. Florio had opposed new restrictions on abortion, while Mr. Courter had voted in favor of several anti-abortion bills.
The issues that Mr. Courter hoped would carry him to victory - a promise not to raise taxes and to fight crime with a toughened death-penalty law -carried far less appeal to voters, the poll showed. And even among those who felt most strongly about taxes, Mr. Florio won.
 
Prosperity No Help
In addition, Democratic and Republican politicians said, Mr. Courter's campaign, coming off a tough primary against four other Republicans, suffered from poor organization in its early stages and difficulty in getting his message to the voters.
The New York Times/WCBS-TV News poll queried 1,642 voters as they left polling stations in 40 randomly chosen precincts across the state. The poll reports a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. WCAU-TV, the CBS afffliate in Philadelphia, also sponsored the poll.
In a state carried by Republican Presidential and gubernatorial candidates throughout the 1980's, the poll found voters saying that they saw Mr. Florio as a moderate like themselves and the current Governor, Mr. Kean. Nearly half the voters described Mr. Courter as a conservative.
 
Fight Over Center Ground
From the start of the campaign, after the two men won their party nominations last June, each tried to portray the other as out of step with the majority of New Jerseyans. Mr. Florio described his opponent as an extreme conservative and himself as part of ''the sensible center.''
''If you liked Michael Dukakis,'' Mr. Courter said repeatedly, ''you'll love Jim Florio.''
Unaffiliated voters and Democrats helped give victories twice to Ronald Reagan, once to George Bush and twice to Mr. Kean. But in yesterday's race the Democrat held onto nearly nine of every 10 Democratic voters. The poll showed unaffiliated voters preferred Mr. Florio to Mr. Courter by more than 2 to 1.
Mr. Courter, whom the Democrats accused of ''flip-flopping'' on the abortion issue when he said that as governor he would not impose his personal anti-abortion beliefs on the public, also failed to gain strong support from anti-abortion voters. They split about evenly between Mr. Courter and Mr. Florio.
Mr. Florio, an eight-term Congressman from Camden County who wrote the nation's Superfund law, premised his campaign on the idea that New Jerseyans would elect a governor who was pro-government if that government was lean, effective and a protector of the environment.
 
Taxes and Crime Stressed
Mr. Courter, a six-term Congressman from the state's rural northwest, promised to solve the problem that has outraged voters more than any other -expensive automobile insurance - Mr. Courter proposed to deregulate the industry, which he said would allow competition to drive down prices.
''The state of New Jersey doesn't have bad drivers,'' he said many times. ''It has bad laws.'' But voters who listed automobile insurance as the most important issue in determining their vote favored Mr. Florio almost by 2 to 1, apparently accepting his message that big insurance companies, not big government, were to blame for high rates.
Among those who listed the environment as the most important issue in determining their vote, the margin for Mr. Florio was more than 2 to 1.
 
Negative Attacks Pay
The poll results also indicated that Mr. Florio had achieved some success with his early negative attacks on Mr. Courter, in which he accused his rival of lying and of leaving toxic wastes on land he owned.
The object of the attacks, political consultants said, was to portray Mr. Courter as dishonest before Mr. Courter could muster a similar charge. In addition the attacks were designed to put Mr. Courter on the defensive before he could get his message accross to the voters.
The poll showed that what mattered most about the candidates themselves in determining voters' preference was honesty. Those who considered honesty the most important factor favored Mr. Florio, 3 to 2.
 
Character Assaults Criticized
The campaign for governor this year was widely criticized as the nastiest in memory in the state. Both men assaulted each other's character and broadcast commercials that pictured their opponents as cartoon characters with noses resembling Pinocchio's.
The poll showed that New Jerseyans blamed both candidates about equally for the tone of the campaign.
After insurance, the environment and abortion, voters listed taxes as the issue that most influenced their vote. But those who listed taxes favored Mr. Florio. The other issues of crime, the death penalty and political corruption were each cited as most important by only one in 20 voters.
Voters also approved $590 million in five bond referendums to preserve New Jersey's shrinking tracts of undeveloped land, rebuild bridges, provide for the disabled, build prison cells and help prevent ocean pollution.
In his victory speech, Mr. Florio painted a picture of a state united.
''We showed the power of people coming together,'' he said. ''One New Jersey, where everyone's children are safe and free from drugs. One New Jersey, where all of us can turn on the faucet and be sure we have good clean water. One New Jersey that's cleaner and greener, that's what we strive for.''
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
The New York Times/WCBS-TV News exit poll is based on questionnaires completed by voters as they left polling places throughout New Jersey yesterday. WCAU-TV in Philadelphia also participated in sponsoring the poll.
The poll included 1,642 voters in 40 randomly selected precincts.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results based on such samples should differ by no more than 3 percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all those who voted for governor of New Jersey.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on Election Day may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

GRAPHIC: photos of James J. Florio (NYT/William E. Sauro) (pg. A1); Jim Courter (NYT/John Sotomayor) (pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: RAMADA RENAISSANCE HOTEL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); LEGISLATURES; ELECTION RESULTS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ABORTION (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (70%); INSURANCE (70%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); 

PERSON: KERR, PETER; FLORIO, JAMES J (REPR); COURTER, JIM (REPR) JAMES A COURTER (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



183 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Scholars Say East Berlin Can't Turn Tide

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
While they say the consequences of the sudden and mounting demonstrations in East Germany defy precise prediction, American scholars specializing in German and European affairs generally agree that the mass marches have gone beyond the point where force could be used to quell them.
''It's quite clear what's going to happen,'' said Ronald Asmus of the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, Calif. ''It's the beginning of the end of one-party rule. The question is whether there remains enough substance for a second German state to exist.'' 
Mr. Asmus, fresh from a visit to East Germany, said the opposition was becoming more organized as it kept marching. Referring to the parades through East Germany's second-largest city, he said, ''In Leipzig, there isn't a party person to be seen, leaving the people in control of the city.''
Robert Gerald Livingston, director of the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies in Washington, described the East Germans as ''poised between anxiety and exhilaration.''
Like his colleagues, he noted that the Germans, by reputation, were an orderly, even submissive, people, adverse to messy uprisings. In addition, he said, ''East Germans have had no experience with democracy.''
''Basically, what I think is that you got the first German revolution from below,'' he said. Other attempts had historically either failed or had been imposed from above, like the West German democracy born under military occupation.
 
'Salvage Operation'
John Edwin Mroz, president of the Institute for East-West Security Studies in New York, said there were indications of ''a major debate in the Kremlin how far this situation can be allowed to go.'' He termed changes now offered by the party leader, Egon Krenz, a ''salvage operation.''
The present crisis, Mr. Mroz said, ''had built up, with no steam valves, to the explosion we now have.'' He said the East German uprising was distinct from the evolutionary processes in Hungary and Poland in that it had a far broader base.
In Lepzig, for instance, a ''vast majority'' of the work-age population from workers to students to artists had taken to the streets, he said.
George A. Carver Jr., a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. said, ''In having to cope with this kind of popular uprising, they can't move against it with tanks like they did in Hungary'' in 1956.
''This is going to cause some heartburn in the Soviet general staff, not to mention the East German Politburo,'' he said.
Mr. Carver suggested a degree of helplessness on the part of the East German authorities now that ''several genies are out of the bottle.'' He commented, ''I doubt that even Egon Krenz knows what's going on there.''
''I don't really see any easy way out and they, I'm sure, don't either,'' he said. ''But the Germans are not Hungarians or Poles, and I can't see the party letting itself be shoved aside.''
 
A Desire to Decamp
Mr. Carver said the East German economy had been considered the standard to which the rest of the Soviet bloc aspired. ''But the bulk of the population set their standards by what they see on their TV screens from the West,'' he said. (Most East Germans have been receiving West German broadcasts since the authorities long ago gave up efforts to jam them.) Among the ''genies out of the bottle,'' Mr. Carver cited the desire of many East Germans ''to decamp for the West.'' One reason for this, he said, is that they find life ''stifling and gray.''
Another reason was a mounting desire for reforms, posing a quandary for a party for which a monopoly on power remained essential. ''They want to push reforms past the point where a Communist state can't allow them and still remain a Communist state.''
Concerning such demands for power sharing, Mr. Carver said, ''I do not see that Krenz and the Politburo will want to go that way and become a carbon copy of the West German state, which is so much more effective.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); HUNGARY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); POLITICS (74%); RIOTS (64%); 

PERSON: SAXON, WOLFGANG EGON KRENZ (67%); 



184 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
Amid Winds of Change, A Summit Conference

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7

 BODY:
President Bush is meeting with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union early next month, he says, to get to know the cut of his jib as the two leaders face together the hurricane of history that is blowing across Europe.
But there will be more to it than that, of course. Summit conferences always produce something, even when that something is nothing -which is why many Presidents have been so reluctant to take part except when the outcome was more or less foreordained. It is far from that on this occasion. 
The pressures are already building in Washington and elsewhere. Some specialists on foreign policy argue that the United States must reassert its leadership, starting now, or West Germany and Japan, which share American values but not all American interests, will shape a post-postwar world that is not entirely to American tastes.
Others worry that in a rush to help Mr. Gorbachev put his new ideas into effect, the United States will forget that the Soviet Union still has selfish interests, too, in places like Vietnam, Afghanistan and Ethiopia.
For his part, Mr. Gorbachev clearly approaches this shipboard meeting off the coast of Malta - the Love Boat summit, as some would have it, or the Club Med summit -with a long shopping list. He needs help in trying to keep economic frustration from drowning political hopes in towns and cities all across the Soviet Union. He needs reassurance that the United States will not seek to profit too quickly or too greatly from the instability on his exposed western flank.
''Next year will be Gorbachev's most difficult year,'' a senior American official said, ''and that fact defines the context for Malta.''
But so does the political situation in the United States.
As the President prepares for his trip, liberals are calling for the diversion of scarce tax resources from tanks and warplanes to an assault on the nation's housing, education and drug problems. Some groups, like Sane/Freeze, advocate a 50 percent cut in military spending by the year 2000, which evokes far less derision now than it would have only a year ago. And some Democratic analysts think Mr. Bush is about to lose one of his party's most potent electoral weapons, its primacy on foreign policy questions.
''Events have taken away a club that Republicans have long used to beat Democrats over the head,'' says Geoffrey D. Garin, a poll taker who works for Democratic candidates.
But conservatives, who have played a large part in the President's success (even if many of them have never trusted him the way they trusted Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan), will also be watching. They want Mr. Bush to exercise continued caution on arms control and, as Vice President Dan Quayle put it in California not long ago, to insist that the Soviet Union manage its reforms by itself.
''Mr. Bush probably cannot get through the fall without choosing,'' wrote Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator, who sees Malta as a key moment for the President. ''He will emerge either as a Dwight D. Eisenhower, splitting the difference with the Democrats, or in the Nixon-Reagan mold.''
But it is the riveting events in Eastern Europe that will supply the immediate backdrop for the talks between Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev. What will they say about Poland's new non-Communist Government, or the apparent disintegration of Hungary's Communist Party, or the migration of hundreds of thousands of East Germany's best and brightest young people to the West?
Many events are important. A few truly capture the world's attention. What is happening in Leipzig and Prague and Warsaw and even Sofia is both important and captivating, and no matter how hard the White House tries to play down expectations for this first East-West summit conference of the Bush Administration, the expectations will remain, here and abroad.
That common European home Mr. Gorbachev likes to talk about is under construction now, and people everywhere want to know what it will look like.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CU (PAR) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); MALTA (73%); AFGHANISTAN (70%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); POLITICS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (62%); DEFENSE SPENDING (61%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); 



185 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Bush Nominates Watt II

BYLINE: By John B. Oakes; John B. Oakes is former Editorial Page Editor of The New York Times.

 BODY:
George Bush, who not so many years ago was justly critical of Ronald Reagan's ''voodoo economics,'' has become past master of an even more illusory art form: voodoo politics.
Nine months into his Presidency, despite constant admonitions to read his lips, it is rarely certain just what those lips are saying, and whether they mean today what they seemed to mean yesterday.
In no public issue is George Bush's voodooism clearer than in the crucial one of environmental protection. At the same time as he was proclaiming himself an ''environmentalist,'' President Bush promoted - to one of the most powerful environmental posts in Government - a proven anti-environmentalist named James E. Cason, who earned his spurs in the Interior Department as a faithful disciple of former Secretary James G. Watt and successors. The Senate is expected to vote within the next few days on Mr. Bush's nomination of Mr. Cason to be Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and the Environment. 
This is not a minor office. Its incumbent is responsible for managing and protecting nearly 200 million acres of one of the nation's most critically threatened and valuable natural resources, the National Forest system. The Soil Conservation Service, too, would be under Mr. Cason's jurisdiction, directly affecting the wise management and sustainable productivity of America's rural farmland.
For these duties, Mr. Cason has neither professional, educational nor managerial qualifications. But he does have a record. In the highly strategic positions of Deputy and then Acting Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Land and Minerals Management, he worked assiduously on behalf of private timber, oil, gas, coal and speculative real estate interests without regard for the environmental considerations that were his sworn duty to protect.
Mr. Watt's protege worked not only against the environment but, consistently, against the taxpayer. Late last year, he approved a revision of Federal audit regulations that would have cost Federal and local governments - and saved 12 major oil companies - scores of millions of dollars in unpaid or underpaid royalties. Mr. Cason signed this deal on the stationery of the oil companies' attorneys.
In 1986, Mr. Cason approved granting title to some 82,000 acres of Federal oil shale land to private claimants, at a cost to them of $2.50 per acre. Some 17,000 of those acres were sold within a few weeks for $37 million. Two years later, while Congress was belatedly considering a change in the law that had made this unconscionable transfer possible, Mr. Cason rushed out to Colorado to urge more claimants to line up at the trough while they could. They did so by the thousands.
Mr. Bush's nominee played a particularly unethical role in the recent ''spotted owl'' controversy in Oregon, where timber operators and environmentalists fought over logging on federally protected lands. He attempted to distort in one case, and to suppress in another, scientific reports that came to conclusions unfavorable to the timber industry. His new post will place him in a stronger position than ever to disregard the law and help the loggers continue to undermine the shaky protection now afforded to the rapidly disappearing old-growth forests of the Pacific Northwest.
Only last December, he proposed, at potential cost to the taxpayer of hundreds of millions of dollars, to undercut existing protection of national parks and other fragile Federal lands against the threat of strip mining.
To every mining claimant, oil and gas developer, timber operator, coal producer, Mr. Cason's natural response from his former post at Interior was to shout: ''Come 'n' get it!'' And they came - to such an extent that at least four of his most dangerous decisions have had to be rescinded or reversed by the department in the last few months.
Now the Bush Administration is fighting to reward this proven anti-environmentalist with a position of even greater environmental signficance and power than the one in which he so miserably failed to carry out his trust.
The Senate has no decent choice but to reject him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SOIL CONSERVATION SERVICE (55%); NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM (55%); NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM (55%); SOIL CONSERVATION SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE, DEPARTMENT OF (US)

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (86%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (86%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ETHICS (76%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (75%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (72%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: OAKES, JOHN B; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CASON, JAMES E GEORGE W BUSH (94%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); 



186 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
Japan's Looking Glass

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
The manuscript that is the rage of Washington, ''The Japan That Can Say 'No,' '' is beginning to cross the Atlantic. Europeans who know of it are appalled, though it is not about Europe and a lot of the America-bashing points are endorsed by European businessmen.
''American business is not serious,'' said a French investment banker. Akio Morita, chairman of Sony and co-author of the supposedly private document, puts it succinctly, saying Americans look ahead 10 minutes while Japanese look ahead 10 years. 
But there are ominous historical echoes in sections written by the other co-author, Shintaro Ishihara, a former Minister of Transport who is openly, imperatively nationalistic. They worry people who remember the World War II Axis.
Speaking of superconductivity as a key to the future, Mr. Ishihara writes: ''This type of technology does not exist anywhere in the Soviet Union or the United States. It exists only in Japan and West Germany. If the giants in the economic field and the politicians can join together around this type of technology, it would open up new possibilities for our advancement. Whether or not this can be achieved depends upon our large and small choices in the future; in sum it is a question involving the sensibilities of our politicians.''
This has to be read with other passages to get the nostalgic flavor. The writer deplores what he considers Japan's failure to free its mentality from ''the dregs of the postwar period.'' He notes economic successes in Korea, Taiwan and Singapore, pointing out they ''were all, at one time or another, under Japanese administration. We are aware that some negative things happened under the Japanese administration, but it cannot be denied that many positive things were left behind.'' That isn't the way other Asians remember Japanese occupation.
The document was supposed to be for internal consumption only, but was translated and sent to the U.S. Read on the plane from Washington to Paris, it brought another startling reminder of how many longstanding assumptions about the present world are collapsing before our eyes.
There are obvious and important differences in the co-authors' approach. Mr. Morita evidently means by learning to say ''no'' a switch from traditional Japanese equivocation to greater candor in dealing with foreigners. Mr. Ishihara means ''calling America's bluff'' with tough threats.
Mr. Morita says the U.S. is needed in the world and worries that if America can't restore effective production, ''we might go bankrupt together.'' Mr. Ishihara says Japan ''needs Asia more than America'' and suggests revoking its U.S. security treaty and establishing ''a much greater deterrent capacity'' of its own. An atom bomb ambition? Not clear.
But they agree that the U.S. is doomed as a superpower because of economic self-indulgence, indiscipline and executive greed. ''The time will never again come when America will regain its strength in industry,'' says Mr. Morita. ''We are going to have a totally new configuration in the balance of power in the world.''
Mr. Ishihara speaks more in anger and less in sorrow. ''There is no hope for the U.S.,'' he says, arguing that ''economic warfare is the basis for existence in the free world.'' At another point he foresees ''the end of the modern era as developed by white Westerners. History is entering a new period of genesis,'' perhaps an apposite remark to the thesis of Francis Fukuyama, a State Department official of Japanese ancestry, that history is ending with Communism's collapse.
No doubt this document we weren't supposed to see can be matched for Japan-bashing, jingoistic arrogance by some American supernationalists, pot and kettle. But there's truth in it.
Recognition of serious American flaws (Mr. Morita calls the gap between rich and poor ''outrageous'') should come as no surprise. We've been talking trade and budget deficits, homelessness, crime and drugs for years. The other day The New York Times reported that a 17-year-old model student who was shot to death haphazardly by a stranger was the eighth high school student killed in New York City in eight days.
But the revealing shock comes through foreign eyes, which strip away the illusion. Dramatic changes in the Soviet bloc offer unimagined opportunities for reshaping the world. There are great risks in the transition, but reason for great hopes. And there are new threats.
The Japanese document is irritating and in some parts ugly. Still it is useful. The greatest danger for America's future now comes at home. That is the basis for our place in the world and our value to the world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (96%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (58%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (58%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR II (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); SUPERCONDUCTORS (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: AKIO MORITA (57%); 



187 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: THE 1989 ELECTIONS: Transition;
Changing of the Guard: Goal Is Slow and Easy

BYLINE: By FRANK LYNN

 BODY:
The style and tone with which David N. Dinkins will confront some of the most serious problems New York City has ever faced will be more reminiscent of former Mayor Robert F. Wagner - slow and easy - than of Edward I. Koch - fast and frenetic, Dinkins associates agree.
Like Mr. Wagner, who was known for keeping a quiet counsel while in office from 1954 to '65, Mr. Dinkins and his closest aides are reluctant to even discuss whom the Mayor-elect plans to take with him to City Hall. But Mr. Dinkins has indicated his preference for a strong first deputy mayor.
He and his allies - liberal Democrats and members of minorities and unions - will undoubtedly want to emphasize social welfare problems and promote programs to solve them. But that agenda could fall victim to the constraints of a budget whose deficit is likely to grow. 
''The economy of the city is slipping,'' Felix G. Rohatyn, chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, said yesterday. Mr. Rohatyn, a financier and an economic adviser to Mr. Dinkins, said that to stop the decline the new administration would have to cut costs, keep wage increases to a minimum in city worker contracts and drastically reallocate resources away from politically sensitive institutions, like community school boards.
 
Harking Back to '53
Unlike the fiscal problems Mr. Dinkins faces, the changing of the guard at City Hall may be the smoothest since 1953. That was when another Manhattan Borough President, Mr. Wagner, prepared to walk across Centre Street from the Municipal Building to City Hall to replace a fellow Democrat, Vincent R. Impellitteri.
The expected ease of the transition, in which Mr. Dinkins will become the city's first black mayor, does not diminish its historical significance. But it contrasts with the experience in other cities, where the election of a first black mayor was more of a revolution than an evolution.
New York's Democratic establishment will likely remain in control. Its members, in and out of government, deal easily with each other, even in heated primary campaigns.
Heads will roll, but quietly. There will be no demands for mass resignations. And some Koch administration officials will not resign; some have passed the word that they would like to stay. A number of them are considered close to Mr. Dinkins.
Several of Mr. Dinkins's associates did not agree on just how bold Mr. Dinkins's appointments would be.
 
'Should Set a Standard'
His campaign manager and perhaps most trusted associate, Bill Lynch, said that the Mayor-elect ''is very conscious that he is the first black mayor and should set a standard.''
Barbara J. Fife, another member of the group that has run the Borough President's office while Mr. Dinkins ran for mayor, said, ''David has been a player in city government, not an outsider.''
Nathan Leventhal, the president of Lincoln Center and a former Koch deputy mayor who heads an unofficial transition planning group appointed by Mr. Dinkins, noted, ''You can have a smooth transition and still have profound changes.''
Basil Paterson, a close Dinkins associate, said he thought the Mayor-elect ''has to stamp a new image.'' But he added: ''That doesn't mean he's going to do it. He might be more comfortable with some of the familiar faces.''
 
Gathering on Central Park West
Mr. Paterson is also a member of the transition planning group, which has been meeting mostly in Mrs. Fife's Central Park West apartment and which may foreshadow what a Dinkins administration might be like.
Mr. Leventhal, Mr. Paterson and another member, Gordon Davis, a lawyer, were high officials in the early Koch administration; Mr. Paterson is also one of the most influential black politicians in the city and state.
Mrs. Fife, a liberal Democrat and veteran of many campaigns, is likely to play a major role in the Dinkins administration. The fifth member, Victor Kovner, another liberal Democrat and an anti-Koch veteran of the political wars, is best known for his influence in selecting judges. A close adviser to Mr. Dinkins, he is already unofficially the first appointee of the new administration as corporation counsel.
All are Manhattan Democrats, but an expanded post-election transition committee may be announced as early as today when Mr. Dinkins meets with the original group.
 
Business Is Watching
The city's finances will dominate the next administration; therefore, Mr. Dinkins's main appointments are expected to be his first deputy mayor, the director of the Office of Management and Budget and director of municipal labor relations. These are considered crucial positions because potentially budget-breaking city labor contracts expire in mid-1990.
Mr. Rohatyn said that the financial and business interests in New York will be watching whom Mr. Dinkins appoints as budget director, deputy mayor for operations and deputy for economic development.
Mr. Davis, one of the members of the transition group, put it more colorfully. ''Moody's and Standard and Poor may not vote on Election Day, but they start voting the day the mayor picks a budget director.''
Different mayors have handled the question of deputy mayors differently. Some have made their deputies equal to one another, as Mr. Koch did early in his tenure. Others have had strong first deputies, as Mr. Koch now has in Stanley Brezenoff. Mr. Dinkins has told friends that he wants a strong deputy.
 
Rumors Abound
Among the documents the transition group will give the Mayor-elect are charts showing the organization of City Hall under the last three mayors, who at various times relied on chains of command built around many deputy mayors or special assistants.
This morning Mr. Brezenoff will give Mr. Dinkins's representatives a memorandum from each city agency listing current programs, priorities and immediate problems. The stack of paper was a half-foot high two days ago.
City Hall has been rife with rumors, most of them mentioning names associated with the Koch administration or those of his two predecessors, Abraham D. Beame and John V. Lindsay. But in interviews, many of those mentioned - including Mr. Paterson, Mr. Levanthal, Mr. Davis and the former City Council president, Carol Bellamy - said they intended to remain outside government.
Two of Mr. Dinkins's closest associates are also unlikely to join a Dinkins administration. They are Representative Charles B. Rangel of Harlem and Percy E. Sutton, the former Manhattan Borough President who in 1977 was the first serious black candidate for New York City mayor. Mr. Sutton is also the wealthy head of the Inner City Broadcasting Corporation, the company at the center of a campaign furor over Mr. Dinkins's stock holdings.
 
'Slow and Steady'
Leading the list of potential Dinkins appointees are Mr. Lynch; Mrs. Fife; Harold Ickes, the campaign counsel and strategist; Kenneth Sunshine, another top campaign aide who is a young veteran of the political wars, and Betsy Gotbaum, an investment banker who was the campaign's chief fund-raiser.
Mr. Paterson said he hoped the Dinkins administration ''hits the ground running.'' But Mr. Lynch, like his boss, is known for his thinking a long while before acting.
Mark Green, the public-interest lawyer and a Dinkins adviser, said Mr. Dinkins followed ''the tortoise strategy'' in his campaign - ''slow and steady wins the race.'' Several Dinkins colleagues predicted he would adopt the same strategy in his early days at City Hall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRENDS (73%); SCHOOL BOARDS (70%); POLITICS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); KOCH, EDWARD I (MAYOR); WAGNER, ROBERT F SR; LYNN, FRANK; LEVENTHAL, NATHAN; FIFE, BARBARA J; PATERSON, BASIL



188 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: THE 1989 ELECTIONS: Governor-Elect
MAN IN THE NEWS: James Joseph Florio;
Careful and Determined

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

 BODY:
One day last month, a tired James J. Florio was jogging with a longtime friend in Central Park when the two middle-aged men pulled around a curve to face a sharp incline in the road. The friend stopped to rest. Mr. Florio broke into a sprint.
''He felt he had to test himself,'' recalled the friend, Lewis Katz. ''He felt that he should be fully winded before he stopped.'' 
Self-discipline and a drive for perfection have been constants throughout the life of Mr. Florio, the 52-year-old Congressman from Camden County who rose from being a tough street fighter and high school drop-out to become a respected member of the House and, now, the Governor-elect of New Jersey.
His victory came at the end of a campaign that many politicians regarded as almost error-free, though also perhaps one of the most negative in New Jersey history. It was the result of assiduous planning that Mr. Florio, a Democrat, began almost eight years ago after he lost a race for governor by 1,787 votes to Thomas H. Kean, a Republican. After studying his mistakes from that loss and to make sure that they were not repeated, Mr. Florio this year put together a campaign of which he demanded that everything be done right.
''Ladies and gentlemen, help me avoid that aggravation again,'' he said at a campaign stop Sunday with his wife, Lucinda, near him. ''I don't need it. Lucinda doesn't need it.''
 
A Different Vision
The man who will succeed Mr. Kean in Trenton is an unabashed advocate of government; lean and effective government, Mr. Florio promised voters. In this he has a far different vision from those offered by Ronald Reagan and George Bush when they carried New Jersey in three elections in the 1980's, campaigning on the theme that government was the problem, not the solution.
James Joseph Florio was born on August 29, 1937, in Brooklyn, the son of a painter in the Brooklyn Navy Yard. After the war, when his father lost his job, Mr. Florio recalls, the family struggled. At age 12 he developed an almost fanatical work schedule and a spartan sensibility.
''My philosophy has always been, I have one pair of shoes because I have one pair of feet,'' he said. ''My father always worked, always worked very hard. It is just beyond comprehension that anyone would not.''
At age 17 Mr. Florio dropped out of high school to join the Navy, where he fought as an amateur boxer and received blows that crushed his left cheekbone, leaving half of his face permanently sunken.
On his return, he earned a high school equivalency diploma, considered becoming a New York City policeman, but decided to attend Trenton State Teachers College, where he graduated magna cum laude in 1962 with a degree in social studies.
Later he took graduate courses at Columbia University on a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship, and in 1967 he received a law degree from Rutgers Law School. As a law student he worked at night as a janitor to support his wife and three children. Mr. Florio was later divorced.
At 25, he went to work as a district leader with the Camden Democratic machine and pursued politics with the same energy. Starting with an Assembly race in 1969, Mr. Florio ran for public office 15 times in 20 years.
During that time almost all the factories in the city of Camden shut down and its white work force moved out. The new suburbanites, often enraged at the city and minorities, were pried loose from the Democratic coalition by Republicans during the Nixon and Reagan years.
But Mr. Florio developed a political style that appealed to both the new suburbanites and the poor minorities remaining in the cities, stressing issues like the environment, transportation and day care that defied easy labels of left and right.
In 1974 he defeated the conservative Republican congressman, John E. Hunt, and went on to be re-elected seven times. New Jersey politicians say his working weekends and visits to constituents made him a familiar face in every volunteer firehouse and veterans hall in the district.
In the House, Mr. Florio earned the respect of Democratic colleagues for his record on consumer issues, transportation and the environment. He wrote the 1980 Superfund law that allocated billions of dollars to clean up toxic-waste sites.
Public policy became his passion; he was known to work nights and weekends studying issues and legislation.
''If an issue is in his area of interest, he knows it cold,'' said Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of Hackensack.
In 1979, Mr. Florio led a rebellion against the Democratic machine dominated by Mayor Angelo J. Errichetti of Camden. Mr. Florio's supporters have since dominated politics in the county.
Mr. Florio first ran for governor in 1977, when he finished fourth in a field of 10 Democrats vying for the nomination. In 1981, as his party's nominee, he watched a substantial lead over Mr. Kean in the polls slip away in the last weeks. The vote was so close that it took a month of recounting ballots before Mr. Kean was declared the victor.
Critics pointed out that in 1981 Mr. Florio lost the race by stressing America's ills and attacking the policies of Mr. Reagan, who just months earlier had won in New Jersey. They pictured Mr. Florio as a man out of touch with the times.
 
The Technocrat's Image
In addition, opponents said that the 1981 race revealed Mr. Florio as a brusque loner and technocrat, well-versed in public policy but insensitive to people. Republicans relished the contrast to Mr. Kean and Mr. Reagan, who campaigned in the state as avuncular leaders of a reborn party.
This year Mr. Florio addressed both of those criticisms in a carefully planned campaign that presented new arguments for his policies and a new persona for the public.
He praised New Jersey's seven years of economic growth under the Republicans, but said that good times had brought worries about overdevelopment and pollution that required an active government to solve.
In a detailed recounting of voting records, Mr. Florio contended that he was closer to the popular Mr. Kean on the issues than his Republican opponent, Representative Jim Courter.
Again, with hard work (and under the influence of his new wife, Lucinda, and his two new grandchildren, campaign aides say) he altered his image. Television cameras frequently found him crouching to ask a child her name with Lucinda by his side, radiating affection. In recent days Mr. Florio told gathering after gathering that his grandson, a todler, had just awarded him the title of ''Pop-pop.''
At its heart, the campaign seemed to integrate both the political man and the private one: a faith that with hard work and revitalized government, America can keep its promise of a better life for its children.
Mr. Florio said at one campaign stop: ''I want to make sure there is opportunity for the next generation.''

GRAPHIC: James J. Florio, who was elected governor of New Jersey, after voting yesterday in Blackwood (The New York Times/William E. Sauro)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); MEN (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (73%); AMATEUR SPORTS (71%); BOXING (69%); NAVIES (65%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); FLORIO, JAMES J (REPR); KERR, PETER RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 



189 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: THE 1989 ELECTIONS: Legislative Race;
Democrats Win The Assembly In New Jersey

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN

 BODY:
Democrats recaptured control of the New Jersey Assembly yesterday the same way they lost it four years ago: in a landslide victory by a candidate for governor.
In 1985 it was a lopsided re-election victory by the Republican incumbent, Thomas H. Kean, that ended 16 years of Democratic control and gave his party a 50 to 30 majority in the 80-member house. That margin was whittled to 41 to 39 in subsequent elections, and yesterday, as Representative James J. Florio swept into the governorship, Democrats regained control. 
''Our victory was so broad and so deep we have won control of the Assembly,'' Mr. Florio told his supporters in East Brunswick last night.
Steve DeMicco, the director of the Democratic committee that coordinated the Assembly races, and Cliff Pintak, director of the Assembly Republican campaign, both said the Democrats had won from 42 to 45 seats to capture the Assembly.
 
'Definite Coattail Effect'
''There was a definite coattail effect from the win'' by Mr. Florio, ''and it became a tug of war for us to try to make up ground,'' Mr. Pintak said.
The change in control sets the stage for the election of a new Assembly Speaker and the man first in line is the Assembly minority leader, Willie B. Brown of Newark.
However, Mr. Florio could lend his support to someone from his own part of the state, the deputy minority leader, Wayne R. Bryant of Camden County.
The other deputy leaders, Joseph V. Doria Jr. of Bayonne and John Paul Doyle of Brick Township, are also said to be interested in the Speakership.
The Assembly races had the same general themes as the gubernatorial campaign: automobile insurance, the environment, taxes, drugs, gun control and - in a few districts where sharp lines could be drawn - abortion.
The new Assembly will join the Democratic-controlled Senate in January in facing some new economic realities and some stubborn old problems, including the state's expensive automobile insurance system.
 
A Kean-Florio Budget
Soon after they are sworn, the new Assembly members will receive a budget proposal from Mr. Florio, even though it will be more a product of the Kean administration than of Mr. Florio's transition staff.
The Legislature and the governor will then have until June 30 to adopt a balanced budget. Because the slowing state economy has produced lower-than-anticipated tax revenues, that first budget may the last that the new governor and new lawmakers can adopt without new taxes or drastic spending cuts.
Eight years ago Governor Kean and the Democratic-controlled Legislature also found it necessary to raise taxes.
 
School Tax Ruling Soon
An issue that was not evident in the recent campaigns, however, could prove to be overriding. The New Jersey Supreme Court will rule soon on the constitutionality of the state's system of financing public education, and that decision could force a revision to the state's tax system.
The case focuses on many of the same arguments the court faced in 1973, when it ruled that the state's reliance on property taxes to finance public education discriminated against children in poorer urban districts.
Critics now contend that even though the state enacted an income tax and raised aid to schools, the reliance on local property taxes is still too great and the imbalance between city schools and affluent suburban ones continues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ELECTION RESULTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); LEGISLATURES POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); GUN CONTROL (73%); TAX LAW (68%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (66%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (63%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (61%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (61%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (60%); EDUCATION FUNDING (60%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (REPR); SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F



190 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: THE 1989 ELECTIONS: The Virginia Contest
MAN IN THE NEWS: Lawrence Douglas Wilder;
From Confrontation to Conciliation

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Nov. 7

 BODY:
The story of L. Douglas Wilder is the story of a provocative outsider to a pragmatic insider, and in the process made history.
It is a story of growth, in a man and in a state, and how that state, the heart of the Confederacy and about 80 percent white, gave broad backing to that man, a grandson of slaves, as its governor.
In Doug Wilder, Virginians are getting a 58-year-old chief executive whose life began on the ragged edge of poverty, amid virulent racism, but whose record is one of steady achievement: decorated Korean War soldier, self-made millionaire trial lawyer, 16-year veteran of the State Senate and some of its major committees, Lieutenant Governor and the country's highest-ranking black elected official for the past four years.
But Mr. Wilder's record is not without smudges. He was reprimanded by the Virginia Supreme Court in 1978 for ''unexcused, unreasonable and inordinate procrastination'' in handling a client's case. He is also a landowner whose investment property was cited several times by community groups and officials in Richmond for being rundown, a taxpayer who has not always made the payment deadline, a politician whose ambition sometimes has been so headlong that it has hurt the cause of his own Democratic Party. 
This fall, the Republican gubernatorial candidate, former Attorney General J. Marshall Coleman, repeatedly cited these omissions and commissions as evidence that Mr. Wilder tended to ignore or sidestep the important details of life.
 
Symbolic and Tangible Change
Mr. Wilder's political journey, from precinct rallies to the Governor's Mansion, took 20 years, a period of great personal and political evolution.
He is far different from the man who showed up in January 1970 to be sworn in as a state senator. He is as quick as ever with a quip, even quicker with a politician's toothy smile, and he still loves a good argument, a meaty issue, a loud party. But other things have changed, some only symbolic, others tangible, all important.
Back in 1970, Mr. Wilder sported flamboyant shirts and a bushy Afro and his agenda, as the first black state senator since Reconstruction, called for establishing a holiday to honor the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., passing fair-housing laws, abolishing the death penalty and expunging the words ''massah'' and ''darkie'' from the official state song, ''Carry Me Back to Old Virginia.''
His manner was often confrontational, and his tongue could be as tart as vinegar. In his first speech as Senator, a moment usually reserved for inanity, Mr. Wilder scolded his colleagues, telling them that the state's treatment of blacks had been ''shameful.''
Today, the Afro has given way to a conventional coif, the shirts are buttoned-down pinstripes, black state legislators are no longer a novelty and the Wilder agenda is conventionally, conservatively mainstream, which is where the votes are in Virginia. His call is not for righting old wrongs but for fiscal responsibility, better roads and schools, cracking down on drugs and imposing the death penalty on drug kingpins.
The old tartness still flashes now and again, but mostly it is submerged beneath a soft and even courtliness. While he still loves a good party, a game of pool and his two Mercedes roadsters, he has acquired a taste for baroque music, and sometimes, in those few moments he takes off from politics, he dips into a Greek or Roman classic.
He lives on Richmond's North Side, several miles from where he was reared, and on those rare nights he is home for dinner he often cooks barbecue, using a sauce whose recipe he refuses to share.
 
Calculated Compromise
In sum, he is a politician who has become an establishmentarian, a man who has gradually replaced deliberate confrontation with calculated compromise. For example, while campaigning this fall, Mr. Wilder pragmatically surrounded himself with white aides, aware that a mostly black entourage might stir second thoughts among the state's predominantly white electorate. He insisted time and again that race was not a campaign issue, that voters should be concerned only with his government experience and with his platform.
Race, of course, was an issue, to a degree, though by the end of the campaign it was obvious that it was no longer a very exploitable one in Old Dominion politics.
''Times change, things change, people change,'' is the way the Governor-elect explains his moderated appearance and his movement from the political left toward the center.
Among the ''things'' that have changed are the demographic and economic makeup of Virginia. In recent years, as more and more Federal workers, lawyers and lobbyists moved to the Northern Virginia suburbs of Washington and as more and more military spending and personnel poured into the state, the Old Dominion has moved toward the middle from well to the right.
The state that required a young Doug Wilder to drink from 'Colored Only' public fountains and to attend segregated schools is now referred to by some as the ''New Dominion.'' It more nearly resembles a booming border state than a never-say-die slice of Dixie. In the state's most populous areas, two of every three voters were born in some other state.
 
Skill in Abortion Issue
Mr. Wilder's strong showing like that of four years ago, can be attributed in good part to his adroitly positioning himself to take advantage of the changes in Virginia, and his handling of the abortion issue is perhaps the best measure of how well he understands his state.
He strongly favored abortion rights, while his opponent opposed abortion except to save the pregnant woman's life, raising the possibility that Mr. Coleman might be able to use the issue to tag Mr. Wilder as a liberal. But Mr. Wilder spun the issue on Mr. Coleman so effectively that it was probably the crucial element in his victory. He argued that Mr. Coleman's position was the stand of zealots, and that a true Virginia conservative would never permit zealots to trample the Constitution by limiting individual rights.
Through his years in public life, Mr. Wilder's opponents have frequently charged that he lacks fixed political principles, that he is a rank opportunist. But the voters have never really seemed to buy that argument.
 
Thrift and Hard Work
Mr. Wilder was born on Jan. 17, 1931, in Richmond's Church Hill section. His father, Robert, whose parents were born into slavery in Virginia in the 1830's, sold insurance and his mother, Beulah, worked as a maid.
The Wilders were never dirt-poor but had to save their pennies. Lawrence Douglas, the seventh of their eight children, grew up in a stable home in which the verities of honest labor, Baptist church on Sunday and a good education were ingrained.
After graduating from high school in 1947, Mr. Wilder enrolled at Virginia Union University, a black school in Richmond. Tuition was only $100 a semester, and he could live at home. He took a degree in liberal arts, keeping in the back of his mind that he might go on to study law.
But before that could happen, he was drafted into the Army and within a few months found himself as an infantryman on the front line in Korea. He won a Bronze Star on Pork Chop Hill for braving artillery fire, aiding wounded comrades and helping capture 20 enemy soldiers.
It was in Korea that Mr. Wilder first spoke up about civil rights. Some fellow black infantrymen were complaining that even though President Harry S. Truman had ordered the Army desegregated, whites were still getting all the promotions. Mr. Wilder took their case to his commanding officer, and thereafter blacks in the outfit began to win promotions. Among them was Mr. Wilder, who left the service in late 1953 as a sergeant.
 
Establishing a Reputation
In 1956, after working various odd jobs around Richmond, Mr. Wilder went to Washington and, using his veterans benefits, enrolled in the Howard University School of Law. He graduated three years later.
While a student, Mr. Wilder courted and married Eunice Montgomery, an economics major from Philadelphia. They had three children: Lynn Diana, now 30; Lawrence Douglas Jr., 27, and Loren Deane, 26. In 1978 the Wilders divorced, with the court papers being sealed. Mr. Wilder remains single, and when he goes to public events he is often accompanied by his daughter Loren.
After graduation, he returned to Richmond, and within a decade, he had established himself as one of the city's more successful trial lawyers, although, as the State Supreme Court was to say, he sometimes let details and deadlines slip.
He had also established himself as one of the city's leading blacks and, on that basis, decided to enter politics in 1969 when one of Richmond's seats in the State Senate became vacant. With the help of a heavy black turnout - the city's electorate was about half black - and a split in the white vote, he carried the day.
Mr. Wilder eventually become a power in the General Assembly, partly through seniority and partly though using compromise and pragmatism. But at times he rankled his Democratic colleagues by throwing around his political muscle, once threatening to run a splinter campaign for a United States Senate seat if the party convention did not pull back from nominating someone he viewed as too conservative. In the Democrats' disarray, a Republican won the seat.
Another time Mr. Wilder, as Lieutenant Governor, publicly criticized a major tax initiative that the Democrats had struggled to pass to finance badly needed highway construction in the state's booming areas. He argued it was regressive.
Shortly after that, Charles S. Robb, a former Democratic Governor who was elected United States Senator in 1988, sent Mr. Wilder a letter that concluded: ''Your credibility with most key participants in the political process is disappearing rapidly and many who have supported you in the past are no longer sure you can be trusted.''
 
Practicing Coalition Politics
But by 1984, Mr. Wilder's political stature was such that he felt confident enough to try for the lieutenant governorship. The manner of announcing his candidacy tipped off how he planned to win: He stood in the State Capitol before a portrait of the late Senator Harry F. Byrd Sr., the conservative's conservative in the Old Dominion and an architect of Virginia's ''massive resistance'' to court-ordered desegregation.
''I believe in coalition politics,'' Mr. Wilder declared.

GRAPHIC: L. Douglas Wilder sat between his daughters, Loren, right, and Lynn, as he watched election returns last night. With them were Mr. Wilder's son, Larry, seated, and Jay Shropshire, clerk of the Virginia Senate (The New York Times/Paul Hosefros)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF VIRGINIA (56%); SUPREME COURT OF VIRGINIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIRGINIA

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LAWYERS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); RACE & RACISM (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); KOREAN WAR (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (56%); EXECUTIVES (56%); 

PERSON: WILDER, L DOUGLAS (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); WILDER, L DOUGLAS (LT GOV); AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR LAWRENCE DOUGLAS 'DOUGLAS' WILDER (97%); 



191 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

ECONOMY
 
Four Senators tried to persuade a regulator to drop a regulation that would have stopped Lincoln Savings and Loan from making the risky investments that eventually led to its demise, the former head of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board said. [Page D1.]
 
The Senate and House agreed to raise the Treasury's borrowing authority above $3.12 trillion. The legislation was approved by voice vote in the Senate and by a 269-to-99 margin in the House and sent to President Bush. His signature would prevent the Government from running out of cash tomorrow. [D1.] 
 
American consumers slowed their taking on of new debt in September, adding only $606 million in what analysts said was new caution about buying cars and other expensive items. [D2.]
 
A bitter controversy has been touched off by reports that the Bush Administration plans to scale back the Pentagon's role in a variety of technology development programs. [D8.]
 
COMPANIES

 
Braniff has put itself up for sale. But only small investors have shown an interest in buying the company so far. [D1.]
 
Chrysler will introduce its Imperial sedan tomorrow. The auto maker hopes the luxury car will appeal to affluent buyers and help to check its slipping sales. [D1.]
 
The New York Times plans to close its northern New Jersey printing plant as part of its overall strategy to reduce costs. [D1.]
 
Eastern has told the law firm for its creditors that it is short $200 million and will seek to amend its bankruptcy plan. [D5.]
 
The Herald Center will be auctioned this morning in a court-approved foreclosure action by the property's mortgagor. [D6.]
 
TLC Beatrice International is selling a 35 percent stake to the public to raise as much as $194 million. [D5.]
 
Businessland will add NCR's personal computers to its product line. [D5.] Tosco is putting itself up for sale. [D5.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Japanese consumers are paying about twice as much as Americans for electric shavers and floppy disk drives and three and a half times as much for spark plugs, a survey showed. [D6.]
 
Saudi Arabia has discovered a major oil field of a light crude that is high in demand. [D10.]
 
MARKETS

 
Treasury securities prices surged on a sign from the Federal Reserve Board that it might be easing monetary policy. [D1.] Yields on C.D.'s and money market accounts at commercial banks and savings institutions were mostly off. [D19.]
 
Stock prices rose on hopes for lower interest rates. The Dow rose 14.96, to 2,597.13. [D10.] ''Junk bond'' prices rose. [D16.]
 
Precious metals prices rose sharply, largely because of overseas demand. [D17.] The dollar ended mostly higher. [D17.]
 
TECHNOLOGY
 
Engineers have succeeded in putting in a watch band the electronic circuitry of paging beepers as well as a highly sensitive antenna needed to pick up radio signals. [D9.]
 
Researchers have developed a special coating that protects a chip from piracy. [D9.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS

 
The first serious test of the Trade Act of 1988 pits the largest domestic manufacturer of forklift trucks against a who's who of Japanese conglomerates. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
The Tokyo Stock Exchange is poised to permit new memberships for foreign securities firms, but the firms will have to pay nearly $10 million for the privilege. Market Place. [D10.]
 
Saatchi's public relations subsidiary will merge its two London offices. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TLC BEATRICE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROVALS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); LUXURY GOODS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); AUCTIONS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SEDANS (71%); CLOSINGS (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); MONETARY POLICY (64%); METALS MARKETS (60%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (60%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (51%); FLOPPY DRIVES (50%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%); 



192 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Times, Citing an Ad Slump, Will Close a Printing Plant

BYLINE: By ALEX S. JONES

 BODY:
The New York Times announced yesterday that advertising volume had declined so much in the last two years that it would shut its northern New Jersey printing plant by the end of next year as part of its overall strategy to reduce costs.
Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, publisher of The Times and chairman of The New York Times Company, told union leaders that the printing plant in Carlstadt, N.J., would be closed and its operations transferred to a plant under construction in Edison, N.J.
''We must find ways to reduce our costs to weather what might well be a growing storm,'' Mr. Sulzberger told the union leaders, who had gathered at his invitation in the company's board room.
While the unions were expecting a reduction in jobs when the highly automated Edison plant began operations, the consolidation will probably mean even greater reductions.
George E. McDonald, president of the Allied Printing Trades Council, an umbrella organization for the city's newspaper unions, responded to Mr. Sulzberger's announcement: ''We'll start talking about it now so we don't stumble into a lot of extra problems. We're committed to work together.'' He said unions would negotiate any changes from a united front. Talks with individual unions are to begin in the near future. 
Lance R. Primis, the president of The Times, said the paper was prepared to work with its unions, and mentioned the possibility of buyouts and contributions to union welfare funds as an inducement to long-term staff reductions. The Times employs about 1,100 at Carlstadt.
The Times did not say to what extent it hoped to reduce its staff.
Kevin R. Gruneich, a newspaper analyst for First Boston, called The Times's decision ''clear-eyed.''
''The economic deterioration seen within The Times's market demanded a radical move by Times management, and I think this is delivery of such a move,'' he said.
The Times said no decision had been made on what it would do with the Carlstadt plant.
The plan was announced after the financial markets closed yesterday. On the American Stock Exchange, the company's shares gained 25 cents, to $26.75.
For readers of The Times, one significant aspect of the announcement is that it delays the paper's long-range plans to become a full-color paper.
 
Plan for Sunday Color Unchanged
But the consolidation will not alter the paper's plan for printing some sections of the Sunday issue in color, which was originally to be the sole function of the Edison plant. Color will be restricted to sections that are printed in advance, including Travel, Arts and Leisure, Sunday Business and The Book Review. The Magazine and the television section are printed commercially.
Mr. Primis said the Edison plant would begin some operations early next year.
Mr. Primis said that paying for the Edison plant, which will cost more than $400 million, would reduce the paper's earnings by $38 million annually for many years through depreciation charges.
He said the paper hoped to recapture a substantial amount of this expense through reductions in labor costs, though he said he did not expect to achieve such saving immediately. He declined to outline precisely what saving The Times hoped to realize from each union.
The Times's advertising volume declined in 1988 by 5.4 percent from 1987 and has dropped again this year. Mr. Primis estimated that ad volume for 1989 would be below 1984 levels and that there would be a further decline in 1990. The drop has been particularly significant in real estate, help wanted, automotive, financial and retail advertising, big components of many Sunday sections.
 
'87 Market Crash Hurt
The stock market collapse in October 1987 prompted a sharp decline in financial advertising. That, combined with a downturn in the economy of the New York area, has hurt advertising sales throughout the region.
On the job front, The Times's hands are partly tied because of six-year contracts that expire in March 1993. Under those contracts, staffing levels at the Edison plant are to be negotiated after the equipment is in place, with binding arbitration to resolve any disputes if agreement cannot be reached.
While that contract was signed with the expectation that the Edison plant would produce only Sunday sections, Mr. Primis said its provisions apply to the consolidation.
The Times acquired the Carlstadt plant in 1975 and installed black-and-white presses, which are used to print many Sunday sections and about 40 percent of The Times's daily papers. The daily circulation is 1.1 million. A similar number are printed at the paper's headquarters on 43d Street in Manhattan; about 20 percent are printed at plants around the country. $1 Billion Investment When The Times's board gave approval in 1987 to proceed with the Edison plant, the Carlstadt operation was expected to be used to publish the daily paper, and, eventually, to have new color presses installed. An additional new color printing plant was expected to replace the printing in the 43d Street building, with the total investment estimated at $1 billion.
Mr. Sulzberger said yesterday that the 43d Street plant would remain as it is until the advertising marketplace improves significantly.
The board approved construction of the Edison plant in anticipation that advertising volume would continue to grow as it had in much of the 1980's.
In 1987, The Times published almost 19 percent more advertising than in 1983, and the number of pages had grown to the point that a new printing plant was needed.
Mr. Primis said that as a result of the advertising decline, the Edison plant alone would be sufficient to handle daily and Sunday printing. That made the Carlstadt plant redundant, he said.
To facilitate an agreement on the installation of modern presses that require fewer workers at the Edison plant, The Times negotiated special provisions with the Newspaper Printing Pressmen, whose 500 members were considered crucial to the new operation. 10-Year Agreement Unlike other unions, the pressmen negotiated a 10-year agreement that will keep staffing of the new automated color presses at roughly the levels of the black-and-white presses now in operation.
Mr. Primis said he hoped the pressmen would agree to renegotiate staffing. He said The Times realized that a significant inducement, like a generous buyout offer, would be required.
He noted that securing press staffing reductions is a principal target of The Daily News in its coming negotiations. Mr. Primis said The Times was likely to seek any concessions The Daily News secured.
John P. Kennedy, president of the union, said he would be reluctant to reopen the contract's staffing provisions ''absent a great deal of incentive to do so.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (94%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CARLSTADT (NJ); EDISON (NJ)

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ADVERTISING; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS PRINTING INDUSTRY (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (68%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (78%); 



193 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Rise On Sign of Fed Easing

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
A sign that the Federal Reserve Board might be easing monetary policy sent prices of Treasury securities surging yesterday.
The Fed's move pleasantly surprised traders and many analysts.
After a stronger-than-expected October employment report was released Friday, market participants reluctantly concluded that the central bank would not act soon to push rates lower, possibly not until early in 1990.
But that view changed swiftly yesterday, after the Fed added to reserves to the banking system when the overnight Federal funds rate -the rate it most closely controls -traded at 8 11/16. By late in the day, the funds rate was at 8 1/2 percent, down from the 8 3/4 percent level where it was since early October. 
The Fed's action had an entirely salutary effect on prices of secondary Treasury issues. But some traders questioned whether the move might alter investor interest in the quarterly refunding auctions. Those were delayed on Monday, but now can be held after Congress last night passed legislation to raise the nation's debt ceiling. 8.5% Fed Funds Seen ''The Fed's operations suggest we are on the way to an 8.50 percent funds rate,'' said Darwin L. Beck, a money market economist at the First Boston Corporation.
''A number of analysts, myself included, looked at the economic evidence presented in the Fed's beige book, in the purchasing managers' survey and in the employment report and concluded that they would not ease immediately. But the governors must have taken time to look at the numbers more closely over the weekend and concluded that maybe they needed some insurance.''
Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at the Chase Manhattan Bank, said that despite the moderate tone in the recent economic reports, ''the risk of recession is still greater than the risk of greater inflation.'' He added: ''That is the environment in which the Fed should ease policy. And as long as the industrial sector of the economy continues to be weak, we should look for further easing moves.''
 
Salutary Effect
In addition to having an impact on the Treasury's refunding, analysts said the move to a lower funds rate could well spur banks across the country to cut their prime lending rates, currently at 10 1/2 percent.
''Once the Fed ease becomes unequivocal, a cut in the prime rate seems likely,'' said John Lonski, senior economist at Moody's Investors Service.
''If Fed funds drops to 8.5 percent, the 2 percentage point gap between the prime and the funds rate would be so far above its five-year average of 1.65 percentage points that the failure to cut the prime would be most surprising.''
By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 1/8 percent bonds of 2019 were offerd at a price of 102 30/32, up a full point, or $10 for each $1,000 face amount of securities, to yield 7.86 percent.
Treasury note issues also posted strong gains, and short-term bill rates fell sharply.
In late trading, the 8 1/4 percent five-year notes were offered at 101 23/32, up half a point, to yield 7.81 percent. And the 7 5/8 percent two-year notes were offered at 99 5/8, up 10/32, to yield 7.83 percent.
In the secondary Treasury bill market, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.75 percent, down 8 basis points, or hundredths of a point. Six-month bills were offered at 7.55 percent, down 13 basis points. And one-year bill rates fell by 15 basis points, to a late offered rate of 7.31 percent.
 
Question to Congress
Yesterday's big drop in yields may not be long-lived once the $40 billion worth of Treasury offerings that make up the quarterly refunding are finally offered to investors, traders said.
''I don't think that most of our core customer base will jump at the refundings if yields stay at these levels, even if the Fed has eased,'' one bond trader said.
The Treasury, which will run out of money tomorrow, said yesterday that it planned to sell $16 billion worth of three-month and six-month bills on Monday.
The big rise in Treasury prices spilled over into the secondary markets for corporate and tax-exempt municipal bonds.
 
Municipal Bonds
In the municipal bond market, traders said that prices of most issues rose by 1/4 of a point to 3/8 of a point in fairly brisk trading.
A number of new tax-exempt issues were priced yesterday, including at $177 million offering of general obligation bonds by the State of Pennsylvania.
The offering, which was made at competitive bid, was won by a group led by Citibank. The serial bonds which make up the offering carry maturities that range from 1990 to 2009. The issues were reoffered to investors at yields from 5.90 percent on bonds maturing in 1990 to 7.10 percent on securities maturing in 2009.
The issue is rated A-1 by Moody's Investors Service and AA-minus by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
In the corporate bond market, the Texas Utilities Electric Company priced $150 million of 30-year first mortgage and collateral trust bonds through an underwriting syndicate led by Salomon Brothers.
The 9 7/8 percent bonds were priced at $99.279, to yield 9.95 percent, 2.07 percentage points above the prevailing yield on the 8 1/8 percent 30-year Treasury bonds at the time of pricing.
The issue, which is noncallable for five years, has a final maturity of Nov. 1, 2019. It is rated Baa-1 by Moody's and BBB by Standard & Poor's.
Prices of most secondary investment-grade corporate issues rose by about three-quarters of a point, traders said.

GRAPHIC: graph of treasury yield curve (Source: Technical Data International) (pg. D16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRIME RATES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (76%); DEBT CEILING (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); EVIDENCE (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



194 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Trade Law's Tangled Web

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
IT seemed like a legal loophole begging to be closed: if foreigners were caught dumping, say, color televisions in the United States, why let them get around the law by bringing in the picture tube and chassis and then slapping together the parts in some dockside warehouse in Seattle?
In fact, ''anti-circumvention'' rules, supported by both Democrats and Republicans and included in the Omnibus Trade Act of 1988, could deter much-needed foreign investment. The first serious test of the rules' impact pits a domestic maker of forklift trucks against a who's who of Japanese conglomerates. If the Portland-based Hyster Company wins, several Japanese companies may abandon forklift assembly operations in the United States, reducing competition and depriving American buyers of the fruits of Japanese innovation. 
American forklift makers have been hammered by imports since the late 1970's. By 1984 they had lost two-thirds of the market for small, gasoline-powered models, mostly to the Japanese. In the scramble to survive, the three largest American builders have adopted varying strategies.
The Clark Equipment Company set up a joint manufacturing venture with A.B. Volvo and agreed to market forklifts made in South Korea. Caterpillar Industrial Inc. shut down its domestic plants and imported forklifts from South Korea and Britain. Hyster also shuffled its production, relying less on American factories and more on plants in Europe and Brazil.
But Hyster decided to lick the foreigners as well as join them. With the support of its unions, it filed an anti-dumping suit against Nissan, Komatsu, Toyota, Mitsubishi and a handful of other Japanese manufacturers. In 1987, the Commerce Department ruled that the Japanese had been selling forklifts below their home market price. It assessed countervailing duties ranging from 17 to 51 percent.
The decision cost Japanese manufacturers tens of millions of dollars. But it is unlikely to do Hyster much good unless the company can foil Japanese plans to produce in the United States.
Since the mid-1980's, Japanese makers have been swiftly pushing ahead with plans to assemble forklifts in the United States, using domestic and imported parts. Hyster now contends that these facilities are superficial ''screwdriver'' operations, intended primarily to circumvent the 1987 anti-dumping decision. If the Commerce Department agrees, the Japanese-American hybrid forklifts will be subject to the duties levied against imports.
The Japanese may win the case on the merits. Local content in the forklifts now assembled in California, Illinois and Texas reportedly exceeds 20 percent - much more than the percentage in the egregious examples that Congress apparently had in mind when it drafted the anti-circumvention provisions. And while it has no direct legal bearing, Hyster's own heavy reliance on imported parts could undermine the company's case.
However the forklift case is decided, it raises a disturbing public policy issue. One reason - probably the leading reason - Japanese and European companies have built plants in the United States in the last decade is to bypass American trade barriers. Often decisions to invest here come only after importers have been stung by unfavorable trade rulings. Indeed, to some pragmatic observers, the resulting flow of foreign capital and technology is the best justification for tough trade laws.
But foreign companies must learn to walk on American soil before they can run. Typically they start conservatively, relying on trusted sources back home to provide most of the parts for American assembly. Only after they have trained managers, taken the measure of the local work force and tested local suppliers with small orders do they bet the reputation of the company on a product that is largely American.
How then will the Commerce Department be able to distinguish between companies circumventing the trade laws with screwdriver operations and those that are simply too cautious to invest heavily before they have accumulated a few years' experience in the American market?
Most likely, not very well. How much the resulting uncertainty will influence decisions to invest in the United States cannot be predicted. But it cannot bode well for American consumers, who in an age of increasing domestic market concentration have grown dependent on foreign competition to keep quality up and prices down.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: VOLV.B (STO) (83%); VOLV.A (STO) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (83%); SIC3537 INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS & STACKERS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AB VOLVO (83%); HYSTER CO (70%); CLARK EQUIPMENT CO (68%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: HYSTER CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FORKLIFTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; OMNIBUS TRADE AND COMPETITIVENESS ACT OF 1988 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK MFG (91%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER



195 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Rise in Consumer Debt Slowed in September

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7

 BODY:
American consumers dramatically slowed their taking on of new debt in September, adding only $606 million in what analysts said was new caution about buying cars and other expensive items.
The Federal Reserve Board reported today that consumer credit increased at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of just 1 percent in September, down from a revised 4.6 percent rate of advance in August. For all of 1988, consumer credit increased 8.5 percent. 
August's net debt increase totaled $2.66 billion, a sharp revision from the $3.48 billion originally reported last month.
The pace of net borrowing in September was the second slowest of the year after an actual decline of nine-tenths of 1 percent in July. That was the first drop since January 1987, when consumer debt fell 3.4 percent.
Consumer spending is closely monitored as a gauge of the economy's health because it represents two-thirds of all economic activity. The economy, particularly housing and manufacturing, has become sluggish in recent months in response to the Fed's campaign to restrain growth and ease inflationary pressures by keeping interest rates relatively high.
 
Car Loans Rebound a Bit
Auto loans, which had dropped sharply in July, rebounded a bit in August, driven by end-of-model-year sales incentives and higher prices for 1990 models to come. The August sales had the effect of stealing from those ordinarily expected in September.
As a result, auto loans in September dropped $842 million, a 3.5 percent annual rate of decline, the Fed said. They were virtually unchanged in August after declining 6.9 percent in July.
Sandra Shaber, an economist with the Futures Group, said the Fed report might not accurately reflect the amount of consumer debt since people have other ways to borrow, such as home equity loans, that are not included in the survey.
But she said consumers were becoming more cautious in their spending, particularly for autos and other durable goods - big-ticket items expected to last more than three years that are often financed by loans.
The category of debt that includes credit cards slowed to a 4.7 percent annual rate of growth from a 21.2 percent advance in August. Total revolving credit increased $756 million, compared with a gain of $3.37 billion in August.
Bank and credit union loans not secured by real estate rose by $785 million, a 4.8 percent annual rate of growth. That compared with a decline of $29 million, or two-tenths of 1 percent, in August.
Mobile home debts continued to fall, down $91 million, or a 4.8 percent annual rate of decline. This category has fallen for eight consecutive months, including an August drop of $692 million, or 35.1 percent.
The various changes left total consumer debt in September at a seasonally adjusted $703.6 billion.

GRAPHIC: graph of consumer borrowing from 4/88 to 9/89 (Source: Federal Research Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FUTURES GROUP INTERNATIONAL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT CONSUMER LENDING (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (70%); MOBILE HOMES (67%); SALES & SELLING (65%); 



196 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Volatility Study Urged

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7

 BODY:
The head of a leading Wall Street firm said today that the New York Stock Exchange should undertake a thorough study of computer-driven program trading to determine its impact on the volatility of the stock market.
Frank Zarb, chairman of Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company, said the issues were complex and the industry, not Washington, should take the lead in determining what steps were needed to cut down on volatility and revive investor confidence. The Wall Street executive said that he did not think that the move by the New York stock Exchange to halt program trading in a voluntary way would work well and he had doubts whether it was called for.
Mr. Zarb told a group of economists that it might be a good idea to focus on the current structure of the futures markets where investors have put down only 5 percent of the value of the stock instead of the 50 percent margin required to buy stocks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYS); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (88%); BONDS (88%); 

PERSON: ZARB, FRANK ANDREW SMITH (73%); FRANK G ZARB (73%); 



197 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: In Japan, It's Costly to Be a Consumer

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7

 BODY:
Japanese consumers are paying about twice as much as Americans for electric shavers, floppy disk drives and camera lenses and three and a half times as much for spark plugs, a survey conducted by Japanese and American Government agencies showed today.
On average, the prices of the 122 products surveyed were 41.7 percent higher in Japan than in the United States. The study confirmed what numerous observers have concluded, but the fact that the two Governments now agree on a set of comparisons has assumed major importance in talks they are holding on what American officials call structural barriers to imports in Japan.
The Bush Administration, seeking Japanese consumers as allies in its bid to open markets, points to the study as evidence of price fixing, bid rigging, market allocation and other anti-competitive practices in Japanese distribution and procurement, which it says curb imports unfairly. 
The Japanese Government has not previously acknowledged that prices for retail goods are higher than in other countries.
 
Will 'Study the Reasons'
Toshiyuki Takano, information counselor at the Japanese Embassy, declined to comment today except to say his Government would ''study the reasons which have caused these differences.''
The survey results also reflect Washington's view that Japanese consumers have been denied benefits of the doubling of the yen's international value. Under normal economic conditions, the more a currency rises, the more bargains that should mean for the country's consumers.
Not all the products were higher in Japan. Most electronics products, for example, were cheaper. But of the 35 electronics products sampled, 27 were made in Japan. Eighty-four were higher in Japan and 38 higher in the United States.
''In the end everything comes down to what the price is, and if the market is working the price will reflect an operating, competitive market, which we like to think we have in the United States,'' said J. Michael Farren, Under Secretary of Commerce for international trade administration.
 
Sweeping List of Demands
In a sweepiing list of demands, the United States is asking Japan, among other things, to slap down companies that fix prices, strengthen its Fair Trade Commission, stop collusion in its beef, construction and soda ash market, repeal legislation permitting small shops to block the opening of large department stores and buy more computer chips.
The Japanese insist that the talks are about barriers not just in Japan, but in the United States as well, and have cited various factors that they say impede exports, like the American penchant to consume rather than save and the high budget deficit.
The initiative on structural barriers was taken by the United States in May as part of a series of actions to implement the 1988 Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act.
It was at the first round of talks on the initiative in Tokyo in September that the two Governments agreed to conduct the price survey. A second round concluded today, and a third round is expected in January. American officials acknowledged that only modest progress was made. But at a briefing, officials on the American negotiating team, representing the Departments of State, Treasury and Commerce, the Office of the United States Trade Representative and the Council of Economic Advisers expressed the hope that Tokyo's position would change after the elections expected early next year.
''There was less flexibility on their part in reaching a common ground on the nature of the problem, even problems which do appear to be widely recognized in Japan,'' said Charles Dallara, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for monetary affairs.
Staff members from the Commerce Department and Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry got the data as a result of joint expeditions to department, specialty and discount stores in Tokyo, Osaka, New York and Chicago between Oct. 18 and 28.
 
No Brand Names Disclosed
Comparable goods made in Japan, in the United States and in other countries were covered. Because of fears of ruffling manufacturers, brand names were not disclosed.
The capital goods studied included scientific instruments and dental products. Of 22 such items studied, 15 were more expensive in Japan than in the United states.
Of the 15, 5 were made in Japan, 3 were made in the United States and 7 produced in other countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: PRICES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); CARTELS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RETAILERS (78%); TRENDS (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PRICE FIXING (74%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); FLOPPY DRIVES (73%); CURRENCIES (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); BUDGETS (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H



198 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Report of Research Curb By Bush Stirs Criticism

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
A bitter controversy has been touched off by reports that the Bush Administration plans to scale back the Pentagon's role in several technology-development programs intended to help American industries compete internationally.
The dispute centers on reported changes that would curtail the activities of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or Darpa, and other Government initiatives. The changes have been discussed widely within the Government in recent days. 
In recent years, Darpa has played a central role by financing and coordinating several research programs, including the development of advanced chip-making equipment and research on high-definition television.
 
To Be Made Public
The dispute will be made public today by Representative Mel Levine, Democrat of California. He said he would contend in testimony before the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology that the Administration was seeking to eliminate money for Sematech, a chip-making consortium financed by Darpa, and other civilian technologies.
He also plans to discuss Bush officials' plans to reduce support for the Commerce Department's Technology Assessment program and to merge the Defense Manufacturing Board with the Defense Science Board.
''The bottom line is that the Administration is on a search-and-destroy mission to root out vital programs which are essential to the health of the economy,'' Mr. Levine said.
The Administration confirmed yesterday that it was planning to merge the Defense Manufacturing Board, organized in March to advise the Pentagon on manufacturing matters, into the Defense Science Board, an older body provides advice on technical matters.
But Robert C. McCormack, the Acting Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, strongly denied the reports that the Defense Department was considering whether to eliminate its support for Sematech. ''No way,'' he said. He added that a research program on high-definition video displays was continuing.
 
Seen as Clarification
''There's a nervousness in the front office about starting our own industrial policy down here,'' said Mr. McCormack, who has been in charge of the department's programs to support the defense industrial base program, a group of technological research projects intended to help American corporations compete with those of Japan and Europe.
Mr. McCormack said he would not consider the planned measures a ''pullback'' of the Defense Department's role. Rather, he said, they are a clarification that the department will not subsidize other industries as it does the semiconductor industry through its support for Sematech, the consortium based in Austin, Tex.
He said merging the two advisory panels was suggested by John A. Betti, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, a former executive vice president of the Ford Motor Company who assumed his Pentagon position in August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%); DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET DEFENSE RESEARCH (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (70%); EXECUTIVES (61%); 

PERSON: MARKHOFF, JOHN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)



199 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Precious Metals Prices Rise Mainly on Foreign Demand

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Precious metals prices continued to climb yesterday on the Commodity Exchange in New York, largely on an increase in overseas demand. Dealers attributed the overseas buying, much of it from the Mideast, to the diversion of assets from securities portfolios as well as an increase in domestic speculative interest in gold.
''Some trace the demand for gold to the so-called shift to safety from the turbulent financial and equities markets,'' said Bette Raptopoulos, a metals specialist at Prudential-Bache Securities. ''But there are many factors responsible for the recent rise in precious metals prices.'' 
One factor for the recent surge in gold prices and trading volume has been the rise in prices after a long decline that carried the spot price of bullion from $450 an ounce at the start of 1989 to a low of $360 in mid-September.
At the close of trading yesterday, the spot December gold futures contract was up $4.60, to $388.40. The next active contract, for February delivery, also rose $4.60 to close at $392.90. Following the strength in gold, the spot price of silver for delivery in December on the Comex rose 2.7 cents an ounce, to $5.295, with the March contract up 2.9 cents, at $5.415.
Platinum futures prices followed gold and silver, with the spot January futures up $4 an ounce, to $550.60 at the New York Mercantile Exchange.
As for the revived Mideast interest in gold, Ms. Raptopoulos said that ''the farther one is from a marketplace the more exaggerated the news.'' She added, ''This may explain why many Mideast and other overseas investors are so concerned about the recent sharp declines in our stock market.''
Some domestic investment portfolio managers have also shifted some assets to shares in gold mining companies. When there is a pickup in interest in gold shares, it usually stimulates interest in the actual metal, particularly among the speculative element, Ms. Raptopoulos said.
Among other factors that have lent support to gold prices is the recent weakness in the dollar, which is held by many investors in countries with much softer currencies. Many overseas investors also believe that the Federal Reserve will have to move to reduce interest rates to prevent a further decline in the economy. Lower interest rates will make dollar-denominated investment less attractive to foreign investors.
Still another factor bolstering gold prices, Ms. Raptopoulos said, is the temporary shortage of refined gold available to jewelry manufacturers in Europe. Whether the shortage is real or has been caused by the refiners holding out for higher prices is debatable. ''But we think it will be of short duration,'' she added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; GOLD; SILVER; PLATINUM FUTURES (93%); METALS MARKETS (92%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); SPOT MARKET (92%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); PRECIOUS METAL SMELTING & REFINING (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); GOLD MINING (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); MINES & MINING (65%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (50%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J



200 of 749 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 17, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off in World Trading, Reflecting Concern on Rates

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar weakened yesterday against all primary currencies, reflecting concern that interest rates in the United States were heading lower.
Gold prices rose sharply here and abroad. 
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery closed at $386.20 an ounce, up by $4.70 from Monday. The Republic National Bank of New York quoted a late bid price for the precious metal at $384.75 an ounce, up by $4.50 from Monday.
Currency traders said worries that the Federal Reserve might be easing its credit policies, in light of recent evidence showing an economic slowdown, depressed the dollar's value but supported gold prices.
''The dollar's upside position is very limited under that scenario,'' said Ronald H. Holzer, the chief dealer for Harris Trust and Company in Chicago.
He said the traders were paying particular attention to the Federal funds rate, which is the interest on overnight loans between banks and a rate over which the Fed has some control. Federal funds traded at 8 1/2 percent late on Tuesday, down from 8 11/16 percent late on Monday.
In New York, the dollar closed at 142.95 yen yesterday, down from 143.85 yen on Monday.
The dollar was also weaker against the British pound, ending at $1.5865 in New York, compared with $1.5765 late Monday.
Other late-dollar rates in New York, compared with those late on Monday, included: 1.8430 West German marks, down from 1.85325; 1.6165 Swiss francs, down from 1.6245; 6.2470 French francs, down from 6.2820; 1,348.00 Italian lire, down from 1,356.50, and 1.17125 Canadian dollars, down from 1.17075.
On the New York Comex, silver for current delivery settled at $5.265 an ounce, up from $5.238 late on Monday. The metal rose in London, to $5.26 an ounce, from $5.25.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (84%); HSB (PAR) (84%); HBC (NYSE) (84%); 0005 (HKSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (84%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (92%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); SILVER MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); GERMAN MARK (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); 

 
