

601 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: Let's Eat, Not Fuss

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
AS 2007 drew to a close and I ricocheted around the city to sample the latest crop of restaurants, I was struck by how seldom I found myself in stylish showpieces beseeching rapt attention, how often I visited humbler, more peculiar haunts. That's where the buzz was. Much of the talent, too.
 I went to Market Table, in Greenwich Village, where the team that made the Little Owl so wildly popular wasn't looking to make a bolder statement. I reached its 32-seat dining room through a front area that's essentially a grocery store, with maple syrup on the shelves and imported cheeses in a glass case. The simple message: good food here. Sold or served. Take your pick.
 I stood to eat at El Quinto Pino, a flea speck of a tapas bar in Chelsea with even less space than its diminutive, beloved older sibling, Tia Pol. I was in and out in under an hour, during which I had the sandwich of my life, filled with vivid orange uni. 
 At Shorty's .32, a dark hideaway in SoHo, I needed only a minute to read a menu of little more than a dozen savory dishes. Its chef, Josh Eden, previously assembled nouvelle Chinese cuisine under Jean-Georges Vongerichten at 66. Here he prepares short ribs, roasted chicken, a hamburger. And he prepares them very well.
 Restaurants like these aren't a new phenomenon. But in 2007 they seized the foreground in a new way, commanding more attention and drawing on the gifts of restaurateurs who might have once staked grander claims. They reflected a year in which low-key charm usurped flashy drama, small was big, and idiosyncratic shrines replaced haute temples as go-to destinations for gastronomes in the know.
 It wasn't that new restaurants cared less about their food, often fastidiously sourced and nimbly cooked. They just cared less about presenting it in traditional trappings.
 Plenty has been written about the disappearance of white tablecloths and the retreat of formal dining over the past decade, but what happened in 2007 went well beyond that.
 Restaurants broke free of convention in ever slier ways, sometimes by refusing to look or behave the way restaurants were supposed to, a movement underscored by the provisions displayed and peddled not only at Market Table but also at BLT Market and Borough Food & Drink. The open kitchen was joined by the open larder.
 Stools made a run at chairs. Momofuku Ssam Bar, which expanded its menu and came into its own early this year, proved that when food is as surprising and impressive as it is here, diners will gladly forgo lumbar support and sit at a counter to eat it. For that privilege they'll stand and wait for more than an hour. Ssam Bar, like many of its peers, doesn't typically take reservations.
 A few years earlier the successes of Prune and the Spotted Pig suggested that a new generation of food enthusiasts would trade convenience and comfort for pure deliciousness, but neither was worshiped quite as fervently as Ssam Bar.
 Its chef, David Chang, picked up accolade after accolade. Food bloggers and off-duty kitchen hands from other restaurants turned Ssam Bar into their own late-night cafeteria and culinary salon. And Ssam Bar emerged as the most talked-about restaurant of the year, a compendium of long-growing trends that reached full flower in 2007.
 Its menu rejects the appetizer-entree paradigm for an order-as-you-go patchwork of small and medium-size dishes. It weds exacting, enterprising cooking to a pared-down setting that evokes a glorified snack bar. It tries not to be a complete dining experience -- for much of the year it had only one dessert, and no coffee -- but a specialized, distinctive one.
 That's what food adventurers, many of them young diners with limited budgets but high standards, seemed to exalt, and their adoration flowed to places like El Quinto Pino, with its terse chalkboard menu and scattering of stools.
 To Hill Country, which serves top-notch Texas barbecue to meat lovers willing to fetch their food at various service stations (one for the meat, another for the sides, yet another for desserts) and consume it at communal tables. To Resto, a relatively unadorned Belgian bistro that -- unsurprisingly -- didn't take reservations in its initial months.
 One after another, talented chefs launched atypical enterprises with lower stakes than some of their previous, more fanciful ventures.
 Having left Jovia, a starry-eyed Italian striver in a gorgeous space on the Upper East Side, Josh DeChellis re-emerged at BarFry, a shaggier, less expensive restaurant in the Village devoted to tempura. For its part, Jovia became Zoe Townhouse, with food that didn't try as hard to dazzle.
 Alex Urena converted Urena to Pamplona, losing the foams and the multicourse tasting menu but adding chickpea fries, meatballs and a hamburger.
 Daniel Boulud, who hadn't opened a new restaurant in New York in more than five years, put the finishing touches on what has been characterized as an embellished wine bar near Lincoln Center. It will be called Bar Boulud, and it is scheduled to open in the coming days.
 What else was he planning? A burger-centric brasserie.
 And Mr. Chang's next move? Had he found himself at this level of success a decade ago, it probably would have been a 100-seat, Nobu-glossy expansion of the canvases he has painted on so far: Momofuku Mania. Instead it's Momofuku Ko, with just 14 seats and a fixed nightly menu determined for diners by Mr. Chang.
 Gray Kunz, who once ran a four-star kitchen at Lespinasse, opened an odd enterprise, Grayz, that straddled the divide between cocktail lounge and restaurant, serving haute finger food and affirming the degree to which serious chefs and serious cooking popped up in unusual contexts that defied easy definition.
 This was the year of P*ong, where the pastry chef Pichet Ong, having exited the hullabaloo of Spice Market, mingles savory with sweet, and vice versa, in a 700-square-foot storefront in the Village with just 34 seats, 14 of them at a long bar (more stools). And of Graffiti, in the East Village and even more intimate, where the pastry chef Jehangir Mehta also brings a dessert man's perspective to the rest of the meal.
 The restrained size (along with the tight focus) of so many of these ventures speaks in part to the desire of young chefs to call their own shots and do their own thing, even if it means downsizing the settings in which they work.
 It speaks to economic factors as well: high rents, exorbitant start-up costs, a local economy with less swagger than in the past.
 But I suspect it also taps into wider cultural dynamics, into the anxieties of a country, overextended abroad and self-doubting at home, that has lost some of its appetite for grand plans and grand gestures, that would prefer to play things safe.
 That's not to say that what chefs and diners have been doing is entirely cautious. Mr. Chang trusts his stool-straddling audience to go for veal head terrine and for sweetbreads, which are popping up on more menus than ever. They're the filling of a raviolo among just a half-dozen appetizers at Allen & Delancey; one of the other appetizers combines poached marrow and paddlefish caviar.
 Over at Resto, the main ingredient in a main-course sandwich is curry-braised pig's head. But here, as elsewhere, the stage for the adventure is a modest one.
 The accompanying list of what I deemed the best new restaurants of 2007 includes more than a few places that didn't bother with showy decor or fussy rituals, that worked harder to soothe and to satisfy than to dazzle.
 Brooklyn's best restaurants, which had long been doing that, drew more attention from Manhattanites than in years past, and Manhattan restaurants took a page from such peers across the water as Franny's, the GoodFork and Dressler.
 While this was a year when utterly transcendent, acrobatic dining experiences were on the wane at new restaurants, it was also a year when diners were treated to an abundance of options for fine ingredients and earnest execution in laid-back, small-scale retreats without any special pomp.
 They often got hearty or homey dishes in perfect sync with less gilded settings. This was a year of pork belly and poached eggs, short ribs and lamb ribs.
 It was a year of frying. Fritto misto made a comeback on the menus at Insieme, Gemma and Morandi. At Centro Vinoteca, in the Village, the chef Anne Burrell fried up a glorious storm on a special menu of piccolini, a cute name for little snacks, the kind suddenly prevalent all around town. Diners didn't insist on intricate dishes. Something tiny and tasty would do.
 A lot of restaurant activity revolved around Greenwich Village, and that wasn't any accident. That neighborhood's small-footprint real estate was the kind of lure for restaurateurs that the mammoth theaters of the meatpacking district had been in years past.
 And that neighborhood was where I frequently headed over the final weeks of 2007. I visited dell'Anima, a sliver of space where I sat in a high chair at a high table that, like the counter wrapping around an open kitchen, sent the signal that this wasn't dining as usual. This was something looser, freer.
 The wine list eclipsed the menu, which spotlighted make-your-own bruschette. Was dell'Anima an enoteca or an osteria? Do such distinctions really matter anymore?
 I visited Belcourt, in the East Village, a Lilliputian brasserie with a no-reservations policy and a succinct menu, which includes a hot dog made with boudin blanc sausage, a burger made with ground lamb.
 I visited Smith's, on Macdougal near Bleecker, where the menu wasn't all that much longer, and I ate a steamed egg, a beet salad and chocolate bread pudding. I wasn't wowed. But like many of my fellow New Yorkers, I don't always want to be.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEWSMAKERS: Clockwise from far left: David Chang, the chef of Momofuku Ssam Bar
Shorty's .32
lobster ravioli at Fiamma
Wakiya
Alto
and Soto's uni wrapped in squid. (pg.F1) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT: RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (SHORTY'S .32, SOTO)
CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES
EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (WAKIYA, ALTO))
WHERE THE BUZZ WAS: From top left: Barbecue at Hill Country
Pichet Ong at P*ong
chitarra with mussels at Franny's
a bowl of bollito misto at Insieme
the Monkey Bar
Michael Psilakis at work at Anthos
elegant eggs at Resto
the restaurant Graffiti. (pg.F4) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FROM TOP LEFT: JULIEN JOURDES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (FRANNY'S, ANTHOS)
HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ALEX DI SUVERO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ROBERT PRESUTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); CHEESE (70%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



602 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 702 words

PERSON: Harold J. Leavitt 

HEADLINE: Harold J. Leavitt, 85, Management Expert

BYLINE: By JEREMY PEARCE

 BODY:
Harold J. Leavitt, an author and management expert who advocated a more democratic approach to organizational decision-making but who also concluded that people in large groups work best through a chain of command, died on Dec. 8 in Pasadena, Calif. He was 85.
 The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. 
 Dr. Leavitt, a longtime business professor at Stanford University, wrote about his theories in lively articles and books, including ''Managerial Psychology'' (1958), a textbook still used almost 50 years after it was first published.
 Dr. Leavitt devoted much of his research to studying the dynamics of group decision-making but found that hierarchical structures were unavoidable and probably necessary, though certainly not benign. 
 ''They breed infantilizing dependency, distrust, conflict, toadying, territoriality, distorted communication and most of the other human ailments that plague every large organization,'' he wrote in 2005.
 Yet despite their failings, he concluded that hierarchy remained ''the best method ever invented for solving large, complicated problems.''
 In the late 1940s, while a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dr. Leavitt helped organize and conduct experiments that revealed how small groups can reach rapid consensus in making decisions. The experiments placed five or so participants in a room, divided them into carrels and forbade them to speak to one another. They were allowed to pass notes, but with restrictions. Participant A, for example, could pass a note to Participant B, and perhaps to C, but not to D or E. 
 Dr. Leavitt found that when the decision to be made was of a simple nature, a highly structured system of communication within the group proved effective in getting something done. When the matter was more complex, however, he found that a freer flow of communication led to a more satisfactory outcome. The findings were described in ''Managerial Psychology.''
 Warren G. Bennis, a professor of business administration at the University of Southern California, said Dr. Leavitt's research was ''beautifully inventive'' and showed that a more democratic approach to communications were more likely to result in correct decisions, faster decision-making and better group morale.
 Dr. Leavitt also studied how loose, internal social networks affect corporations. He returned to such studies in the 1990s, when he examined the dynamics of small groups within large ones, this time to demonstrate how energetic, idealistic elites can, for a short time, influence an entire organization.
 He called these elites ''hot groups,'' and explained the phenomenon in a book, ''Hot Groups: Seeding Them, Feeding Them, and Using Them to Ignite Your Organization'' (1999), written with his wife, Jean Lipman-Blumen, a sociologist.
 Dr. Leavitt said such groups were usually ''embattled enclaves'' in which members felt connected by an intense sense of purpose. He found that they brought superior speed and innovation to bear on an organization's problems but that were short-lived. Frequently they were dismissed by the corporate hierarchy.
 The challenge for company leaders is to recognize and harness a hot group's energy before it dissipates, Dr. Leavitt and Dr. Lipman-Blumen wrote.
 Harold Jack Leavitt was born in Lynn, Mass. He graduated from Harvard and received a master's degree from Brown before earning his doctorate in industrial economics from M.I.T. in 1949.
 After teaching at the University of Chicago and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Dr. Leavitt joined Carnegie Mellon University as a professor of industrial administration in 1958. He was named a professor of organizational behavior at Stanford in 1966, and remained there until retiring in 1987.
 Dr. Leavitt is survived by his wife, Dr. Lipman-Blumen, who is a professor of organizational behavior at Claremont Graduate University in Claremont, Calif. His first wife, Gloria R. Leavitt, died in 1985.
 He is also survived by a daughter, Emily of San Francisco; two sons, John, an anthropologist, of Montreal, and David, a novelist and short-story writer, of Gainesville, Fla.; a sister, Helen Fox of Hallandale, Fla.; and nine grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



603 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Frozen Rates, Falling Prices

BYLINE: By PETER SCHIFF. 
Peter Schiff is the president of a Connecticut-based brokerage company and the author of ''Crash Proof: How to Profit From the Coming Economic Collapse.''

DATELINE: Darien, Conn. 

 BODY:
 THE Bush administration's mortgage rescue plan will worsen, not alleviate, the problems in the housing market. 
 We are suffering from a home value crisis, not simply a credit crisis. If home prices were still rising, defaults would be low, investment returns would be high, borrowers would still be cashing out equity, and lenders would be showering credit on home buyers. 
 Falling prices reverse this dynamic. A recent study by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston found that most foreclosures result from falling home prices, not from the resetting of mortgage rates.
 And if rates are frozen for some subprime mortgages, standards for most new loans will become increasingly strict. Lenders will have to factor in the added risk of having their contracts rewritten when borrowers default. Higher down payments, mortgage rates and required credit scores -- along with lower loan-to-income ratios and perhaps the death of adjustable-rate loans altogether -- will further push down home prices. 
 Whether or not their payment levels are frozen, borrowers with loans that are greater than the values of their homes will have few incentives to keep paying their mortgages or to maintain their properties. Why spend more on a home in which they have no equity and which they may lose to foreclosure anyway?
 Having put nothing down or having extracted equity in previous refinances, most subprime borrowers will lose nothing financially from foreclosure. In some cases the low teaser rates allowed them to pay less than what they might otherwise have paid in rent. The real losses are borne by the lenders.
 Proponents suggest that a rate freeze will buttress home prices by keeping foreclosed homes off the market. But that is a stay of execution, not a pardon. Most homes temporarily saved from foreclosure will continue to depreciate as new buyers fail to qualify for loans. Lenders will be on the hook for even more losses than if the foreclosures had taken place sooner. 
 Everyone seems to agree that a return to traditional lending standards is a good idea, but no one seems willing to accept a return to rational prices as a consequence. 
 While the bubble was inflating, self-serving explanations were offered for why traditional formulas of home valuation no longer applied. As it turns out, the laws are still in effect. These traditional measures, like the relationship between home prices, rents and income, indicate that prices need to fall at least 30 percent more nationally. The sooner this balance is achieved, the sooner lenders will again commit capital. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



604 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: $23.88 Million In Taxes? That's Life, Not Luxury, For Yankees

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
The problem with doing business on the Yankees' lofty economic level is the cost of doing business. 
 This past season, the Yankees signed Roger Clemens to pitch for them for 60 percent of the season, and it cost them just under $25 million, including virtually $7 million in luxury taxes. Now they are talking to the Minnesota Twins about Johan Santana, and he would cost them more than $7 million a year in taxes.
 When the Yankees had a chance to sign Carlos Beltran three years ago, they passed on him because they didn't want to pay $40 million in luxury taxes over the life of a six-year deal. 
 Tax avoidance obviously is not an issue in Santana's case, because the Yankees wouldn't still be talking to the Twins if it were.
 The Twins' trade talks seem to be in a timeout. The Yankees and the Red Sox apparently are the teams most serious about Santana, but their interest isn't necessarily sincere.
 The feeling among baseball people is the Red Sox, with a solid starting rotation already in place, don't need Santana, would be reluctant to pay the price he would demand -- $20 million or more a year for five years or more -- and remain in the bidding only because the Yankees are in it. 
 The Yankees' go-slow approach stems from their ambivalence over whether they want to keep Phil Hughes and a younger pitching prospect, Jeffrey Marquez, or have Santana pitch at the head of their rotation. 
 At one point, the Twins were said to be holding out for Hughes and Ian Kennedy, another of the Yankees' attractive triumvirate of major league-ready young pitchers (the untouchable Joba Chamberlain being the third), but the Yankees wouldn't give up both, so the Twins asked instead for Marquez, a 23-year-old right-hander.
 Last season, his fourth in the minors, Marquez had a 15-9 record and 3.65 earned run average for Class AA Trenton. 
 General Manager Brian Cashman wants to hold on to the young pitchers. No one with authority is pushing for Santana, but Hank Steinbrenner may be heading in that direction. 
 If the Yankees trade for Santana, they will sign him to a multiyear contract that will affect both their payroll and their luxury tax. If they were to add a five-year extension for $20 million a year to his $13.25 million salary for next season, the contract would cost the Yankees about $7.57 million in luxury taxes each year, with the tax being constant because it would be applied from the start based on the total $113.25 million figure. 
 Luxury taxes are the cost of doing business, but the business better be good, because bad business won't be tolerated forever. Joe Torre learned that fact of Yankees life. Bad business cost him his job.
 In the last five years that Torre managed them, the Yankees paid their players $945 million. They paid an additional $121.6 million in luxury taxes. With no World Series championships to show for all that money, George Steinbrenner considered them a billion-dollar bust.That's why Torre no longer manages the Yankees. Oh, he could have retained his job in spite of his failure, but the contract the Yankees offered him -- a $5 million salary plus a possible $3 million in bonuses based on how far the Yankees went in the postseason -- insulted him. We all should be so insulted.
 The financial stakes aren't as high in Los Angeles, Torre's new place of employment. In the last five years, the Dodgers have paid their players $501 million and the tax man nothing. They have never exceeded the luxury-tax threshold.
 The Yankees have always exceeded it. They are the only team that has always exceeded it. They are 5 for 5 when it comes to the tax that was designed to keep big-spending teams in line.
 Last season, the Yankees' familiar $200-million-plus payroll went $59.7 million over the $148 million threshold for the luxury tax. Multiply that amount by 40 percent, the Yankees' tax rate because they have exceeded the threshold so often, and you get the amount the Yankees were recently informed they have to pay -- $23.88 million.
 Relatively speaking, that amount shows economic progress for the Yankees. It's their smallest tax in three years, and it's $10 million less than their 2005 tax. Looked at in another way, though, the amount by which the Yankees exceeded the threshold last season was more than the payrolls of four teams -- the two in Florida, the Washington Nationals and the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
 The luxury tax is not the only additional money the Yankees pay. They haven't received their revenue-sharing bill, but when they do, they know that revenue sharing and the luxury tax combined will cost them more than $100 million for 2007. 
 Through revenue sharing, the Yankees have become benefactors for poorer teams, but some of the recipient teams are ungrateful enough to spend the money contrary to the rules of revenue sharing. Clubs are supposed to spend the money to improve their teams on the field, but they haven't always done that.
 With payrolls hovering around the $30 million mark last season, the Florida Marlins and the Tampa Bay Rays, for example, don't seem to be spending the $20 million or more that they get in revenue sharing on player salaries. Teams don't have to spend the money on salaries, but if the Marlins did, they might not have to keep shedding players like Miguel Cabrera and Dontrelle Willis.
 Do the Minnesota Twins really not have the money to sign Santana to a contract extension that would preclude their need to trade him or his ability to be a free agent a year from now? Or is it that they don't want to spend the money to retain him?
 One thing the Twins, with a payroll of about $70 million last season, don't have to worry about is paying the luxury tax.TAX ESTIMATE

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TAX ESTIMATE: $7.5 MILLION: If the Yankees gave Johan Santana a five-year, $100 million extension, the luxury tax would add an extra $7.5 million annually. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JED JACOBSON/GETTY IMAGES)
TAX PAID: $7 MILLION: Because of the luxury tax, Roger Clemens's abbreviated 2007 season ended up costing the Yankees nearly $25 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 TAX AVOIDED: $40 MILLION: One reason the Yankees passed on Carlos Beltran was the luxury tax that would have been added to his $100-million-plus deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMI CHAPPELL/REUTERS) CHART: PAYING THE TAXES: Only three teams have paid baseball's luxury tax, which kicks in when a team exceeds the salary threshold. Of those teams, only the Yankees have paid the tax every year. (SOURCE: ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); MINNESOTA TWINS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (72%) MINNESOTA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



605 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: In Providence, a Waterfront Promoter Finds Opponents

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ABBOTT

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

 BODY:
From his fourth-floor conference center overlooking the Providence River, the developer Patrick T. Conley can see where a gang of irate colonists set out one night 235 years ago to burn the British schooner Gaspee, helping to ignite the Revolutionary War.
 This is an apt sight for the 69-year-old Mr. Conley; in addition to being a developer, he is a retired history professor with a particular passion for Rhode Island's incendiary past. 
 But these days, it is the future that has captured Mr. Conley's imagination, particularly the future of Providence's old industrial waterfront. Convinced that the waterfront is an underused asset in need of a serious face-lift, Mr. Conley is planning a $300 million mixed-use development on seven acres just south of the city's downtown. Before the project can proceed, Mr. Conley would need a change in zoning and financing.
 Plans for Providence Piers include a hotel, marina, 240 condominiums or rental apartments, a parking garage for 890 cars, a floating restaurant, retail and office space, and green space for festivals, concerts and other outdoor events. Already, Mr. Conley says he has spent $6.8 million to rehabilitate an old four-story brick warehouse into artists' studios and a conference center. 
 He has also spent $1.5 million to rebuild a sagging dock, which is now used by cruise ships and a high-speed ferry that runs between Providence and Newport.
 Mr. Conley characterizes the section of waterfront he wants to transform, a one-mile stretch that begins at the city's inner harbor and ends at ProvPort, the privately owned cargo facility most people think of when they think of the Port of Providence, as toxic and tired. 
 But Mr. Conley's waterfront activities have not gone unchallenged. In fact, passions are running high along Allens Avenue, where Mr. Conley's Providence Piers is planned. A band of business owners, who feel threatened by the mixed-use vision that Mr. Conley espouses, have come together to fight the developer. Their position is that Providence needs a traditional working waterfront -- not more condominiums. 
 ''We're absolutely opposed to it,'' said Julie Gill, executive director of the Oil Heat Institute of Rhode Island, a trade organization with 60 members representing the state's heating oil suppliers, wholesalers and other businesses associated with the fuel industry. 
 Ms. Gill and the other opponents, who call themselves the Providence Working Waterfront Alliance, say that it is not practical to add residences and shops to an industrial zone, and complain of incompatibility. Who wants to live next to a shipyard? they ask. 
 They predict it will only be a matter of time before they are driven out of business on Allens Avenue, a situation they believe will have disastrous economic implications for Providence -- though city officials don't seem to agree -- and for the entire region .
 ''Providence is just thinking of Providence,'' said David A. Cohen, president of the Promet Marine Services Corporation, a shipyard located on eight acres next to Mr. Conley's renovated conference center.
 Noting that home heating oil shipped into Providence's deep water port is sent as far away as Worcester and Cape Cod in Massachusetts, Mr. Cohen said the waterfront's traditional industrial base is more important economically than new commercial and residential uses. ''Allens Avenue is important to the whole region,'' Mr. Cohen said. 
 Providence city officials, including Mayor David N. Cicilline, have placed themselves squarely in Mr. Conley's camp, however. A new master plan developed for the city, called Providence Tomorrow, recommends rezoning Allens Avenue from industrial to mixed use, though actual changes in the zoning will not be proposed until after opponents and other interested parties have their say at a public forum scheduled for late February. 
 The time has come to open up the Allens Avenue waterfront for the potential benefit of more Rhode Islanders and visitors to the city, Mr. Cicilline wrote in a recent commentary in The Providence Journal. As for the concerns raised by the Providence Working Waterfront Alliance, the mayor suggested that ''environmental advancements and new attitudes about urban living'' would make co-existence between residents and businesses possible. 
 That is not realistic, members of the Working Waterfront Alliance said. ''I think we'd be out of business in five years,'' Mr. Cohen said. Promet employs about 100 people and last year did about $10 million in business, he said.
 To the north of Promet -- on the other side of where Mr. Conley wants to build Providence Piers -- is a fuel terminal operated by the Sprague Energy Corporation, based in New Hampshire. About 70 barges and tankers unload fuel at the Sprague terminal every year -- enough to heat 10,000 homes, according to James Therriault, vice president for marketing and materials handling for Sprague. ''Right now we're able to operate 24/7,'' Mr. Therriault said. 
 But if the city changes the area's zoning to allow people to live near the terminal, Sprague's round-the-clock operation will probably have to be curtailed, which in turn will result in greater costs, which would be passed on to consumers, he said.
 In all, about eight businesses along Allens Avenue would be affected by the proposed rezoning, alliance members said, though others say that number is smaller. That may not sound like a lot, Ms. Gill of the Oil Heat Institute of Rhode Island said, but the state cannot afford to lose one fuel provider.
 ''If we lose even one terminal, there's no guarantee we're going to get product from other states,'' she said. ''What good is it to put condos on the water if you can't put heat in them?'' 
 Mr. Cicilline is not the first Providence mayor to propose changes to Allens Avenue. A longtime former mayor, Vincent A. Cianci Jr., unveiled a sweeping revitalization plan for the area south of downtown Providence that also called for opening up the industrial waterfront -- indeed, much more of the waterfront than is currently at stake -- for commercial and residential use. 
 Mr. Cianci's plan never proceeded, but it did plant the seed of change for Allens Avenue, which Mr. Conley has been watering with an aggressive public relations campaign. 
 Mr. Conley, a lawyer and author, said he was determined to get the zoning he needed to build the rest of Providence Piers. Since 2002, when he bought the warehouse at a tax sale for $106,000, he says has spent about $13.5 million on the project, though tax credits for restoring an historic property have since reduced his personal cost to about $8 million. 
 Mr. Conley grew up in South Providence, one of the city's poorest neighborhoods. With his wife and business partner, Gail, he sees refurbishing the waterfront as a personal quest, one he is confident he will achieve. 
 But as they prepare for the forum, members of the Providence Working Waterfront Alliance expressed equal determination. Given the waterfront's strengths, including a recently dredged deep-water channel, and the potential for more industrial development, they say they believe they have a better economic argument than do Mr. Conley and the city. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A view of the pier in Providence, R.I., built by Patrick Conley, top. Above left, a sign announcing his plans for the waterfront. Mr. Conley, right, is planning a $300 million mixed-use development just south of the city's downtown. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); ZONING (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HISTORY (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); HEATING OIL (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); FERRIES (71%); CRUISES (71%); FESTIVALS (71%); CITIES (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); RESTAURANTS (67%); WHOLESALERS (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); SHIPBUILDING (64%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (97%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



606 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SIX KILLERS: ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3398 words

HEADLINE: Finding Alzheimer's Before a Mind Fails

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY

 BODY:
For a perfectly healthy woman, Dianne Kerley has had quite a few medical tests in recent years: M.R.I. and PET scans of her brain, two spinal taps and hours of memory and thinking tests.
 Ms. Kerley, 52, has spent much of her life in the shadow of an illness that gradually destroys memory, personality and the ability to think, speak and live independently. Her mother, grandmother and a maternal great-aunt all developed Alzheimer's disease. Her mother, 78, is in a nursing home in the advanced stages of dementia, helpless and barely responsive. 
 ''She's in her own private purgatory,'' Ms. Kerley said.
 Ms. Kerley is part of an ambitious new scientific effort to find ways to detect Alzheimer's disease at the earliest possible moment. Although the disease may seem like a calamity that strikes suddenly in old age, scientists now think it begins long before the mind fails. 
 ''Alzheimer's disease may be a chronic condition in which changes begin in midlife or even earlier,'' said Dr. John C. Morris, director of the Alzheimer's Disease Research Center at Washington University in St. Louis, where Ms. Kerley volunteers for studies. 
 But currently, the diagnosis is not made until symptoms develop, and by then it may already be too late to rescue the brain. Drugs now in use temporarily ease symptoms for some, but cannot halt the underlying disease. 
 Many scientists believe the best hope of progress, maybe the only hope, lies in detecting the disease early and devising treatments to stop it before brain damage becomes extensive. Better still, they would like to intervene even sooner, by identifying risk factors and treating people preventively -- the same strategy that has markedly lowered death rates from heart disease, stroke and some cancers.
 So far, Alzheimer's has been unyielding. But research now under way may start answering major questions about when the disease begins and how best to fight it. 
 A radioactive dye called PIB (for Pittsburgh Compound B) has made it possible to use PET scans to find deposits of amyloid, an Alzheimer's-related protein, in the brains of live human beings. It may lead to earlier diagnosis, help doctors distinguish Alzheimer's from other forms of dementia and let them monitor the effects of treatment.
 Studies with the dye have already found significant deposits in 20 percent to 25 percent of seemingly normal people over 65, suggesting that they may be on the way to Alzheimer's, though only time will tell. 
 ''PIB is about the future of where Alzheimer's disease needs to be,'' said Dr. William E. Klunk, a co-discoverer of the dye at the Alzheimer's research center at the University of Pittsburgh. ''PIB is being used today to help determine whether drugs that are meant to prevent or remove amyloid from the brain are working, so we can find drugs that prevent the underlying pathology of the disease.'' 
 Though PIB is experimental now, studies began in November that are intended to lead to government approval for wider use. 
 Currently, for the most common form of Alzheimer's disease, which occurs after age 65, there is no proven means of early detection, no definitive genetic test. But PIB tests might be ready before new treatments emerge, making it possible to predict who will develop Alzheimer's -- without being able to help.
 Researchers are also using M.R.I. scans to look for early brain changes, and testing blood and spinal fluid for amyloid and other ''biomarkers'' to see if they can be used to predict Alzheimer's or find it early. 
 Studies of families in which multiple members have dementia are helping to sort out the genetic underpinnings of the disease. 
 Finally, experiments are under way to find out whether drugs and vaccines can remove amyloid from the brain or prevent its buildup, and whether doing so would help patients. The new drugs, unlike the ones now available, have the potential to stop or slow the progress of the disease. At the very least, the drug studies will be the first real test of the leading theory of Alzheimer's, which blames amyloid for setting off a chain of events that ultimately ruin the brain. 
 Some scientists doubt the amyloid theory, but even a staunch skeptic said the studies were important. 
 Among the skeptics is Dr. Peter Davies, a professor at Albert Einstein Medical College, who said: ''You've got to try. Somebody's going to get this right.''
 But if the amyloid hypothesis does not hold up, much of Alzheimer's research could wind up back at Square 1. 
 Answers are urgently needed. Alzheimer's was first recognized 100 years ago, and in all that time science has been completely unable to change the course of the disease. Desperate families spend more than $1 billion a year on drugs approved for Alzheimer's that generally have only small effects, if any, on symptoms. Patients' agitation and hallucinations often drive relatives and nursing homes to resort to additional, powerful drugs approved for other diseases like schizophrenia, drugs that can deepen the oblivion and cause severe side effects like diabetes, stroke and movement disorders. 
 Alzheimer's is the most common cause of dementia (artery disease, Parkinson's and other brain disorders can also lead to dementia). Five million people in the United States have Alzheimer's, most of them over 65. It is the nation's sixth leading cause of death by disease, killing nearly 66,000 people a year and probably contributing to many more deaths. By 2050, according to the Alzheimer's Association, 11 million to 16 million Americans will have the disease. ''Sixteen million is a future we can't countenance,'' said William H. Thies, the association's vice president for medical and scientific relations. ''It will bankrupt our health care system.'' 
 The costs are already enormous, $148 billion a year -- more than three times the cost of chronic lung disease, even though Alzheimer's kills only half as many people. To a great extent, increases in dementia are the price of progress: more and more people are living long enough to get Alzheimer's, some because they survived heart disease, strokes or cancer. It is a cruel trade-off. The disease is by no means inevitable, but among people 85 and older, about 40 percent develop Alzheimer's and spend their so-called golden years in a thicket of confusion, ultimately becoming incontinent, mute, bedridden or forced to use a wheelchair and completely dependent on others. 
 ''It makes people wonder whether they really want to live that long,'' Dr. Klunk said.
 The potential market for prevention and treatment is enormous, and drug companies are eager to exploit it. If a drug could prevent Alzheimer's or just reduce the risk, as statins like Lipitor do for heart disease, half the population over 55 would probably need to take it, Dr. Thies said.
 If new drugs do emerge, they will come from studies in patients who already have symptoms, Dr. Thies said. But he said the emphasis would quickly shift to treating people at risk, before symptoms set in. Many researchers doubt that even the best preventive drugs will be able to heal the brains of people who are already demented.
 Treating preventively, Dr. Thies said, ''will be more satisfying to patients and physicians, and there will be an economic incentive because you'll wind up treating more people.''
 The only thing that could slow the drive for early treatment, he said, would be serious side effects -- and Dr. Morris, at Washington University, said drugs powerful enough to treat Alzheimer's would probably have strong side effects. 
 Researchers are especially eager to study people like Ms. Kerley, because the children of Alzheimer's patients have a higher-than-average risk of dementia themselves, and tracking their brains and minds may open a window onto the earliest stages of the disease. 
 ''I want to do anything I can possibly do to help find a cure or find a way to identify it earlier,'' Ms. Kerley said. ''We need to stop this. I don't know if it will help my generation, but it will help my son's.''
 She figures that being a research subject may have advantages, too.
 ''We're the first ones in line,'' she said. ''If I am genetically predisposed, and they have a preventive medication, they'll tell me right away.''
 Alzheimer's Beginnings
 Some forgetfulness is normal. Distraction, stress, fatigue and medications can contribute. A joking rule of thumb about Alzheimer's is actually close to the truth: it's O.K. to forget where you put your car keys, as long as you remember what a key is for. But worsening forgetfulness is a cause for concern.
 Doctors use standard memory and reasoning tests to diagnose dementia, along with symptoms reported by the patient and family members. The term ''mild cognitive impairment'' is sometimes applied to small but measurable memory problems. But its meaning is unclear: some studies find that the impairment can resolve itself, while others suggest that it always progresses to dementia. 
 Even if older patients think more slowly or take longer to remember, as long as they can still function independently, they are not demented, Dr. Morris said. 
 In her heart, Ms. Kerley suspects that her mother's Alzheimer's disease began long before the official diagnosis in 2001 or even the tentative one in 1995 -- years before, maybe decades. She wonders if the disease might explain, at least in part, her mother's difficult personality and lack of interest in reading or education. 
 When does Alzheimer's begin? The question haunts families and captivates scientists. 
 Dr. Morris said, ''We think that by the time an individual begins to experience memory loss, there is already substantial brain damage in areas critical to memory and learning.'' 
 No one knows whether the disease affects thinking, mood or personality before memory fails. Researchers think that the brain, like other vital organs, has a huge reserve capacity that can, at least for a time, hide the fact that a disease is steadily destroying it. 
 ''I'm speculating that it does affect you throughout life,'' said Dr. Richard Mayeux, a professor of neurology, psychiatry and epidemiology at Columbia University, and co-director of its Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain. ''I think there's a very long phase where people aren't themselves.''
 If Dr. Mayeux asks family members when a patient's memory problem began, they almost always say it started a year and a half before. If he then asks when was the last time they thought the patient's memory was perfectly normal, many reply that the patient never really had a great memory. 
 Several studies in which people had intelligence tests early in life and were then evaluated decades later have found that compared with the healthy people, those with Alzheimer's had lower scores on the early tests. 
 ''It raises the possibility for me that this is a genetic disorder that starts early in life,'' Dr. Mayeux said. 
 He said those findings also made him wonder about the widely dispensed advice to read, take courses, solve puzzles and stay mentally active to ward off Alzheimer's. The advice is based on studies showing that highly educated people have a lower risk of Alzheimer's than do less-accomplished ones. But does that mean that mental activity prevents Alzheimer's -- or vice versa?
 'I Have Lost Myself'
 The disease is named for Alois Alzheimer, a German doctor who first described it in Auguste D., a 51-year-old patient he saw in 1901. Her memory, speech and comprehension were failing, and she suffered from hallucinations and paranoid delusions that her husband was unfaithful. Unable to finish writing her own name, she told Alzheimer, ''I have lost myself.'' 
 She died in 1906, ''completely apathetic,'' curled up in a fetal position and ''in spite of all the care and attention,'' suffering from bedsores, Alzheimer wrote. 
 A century later, patients still die in much the same way. Although Alzheimer's itself can kill by shutting down vital brain functions, infections usually end things first -- pneumonia, bladder infections, sepsis from bedsores. 
 When Alzheimer dissected Auguste's brain, he found it markedly shrunken, a wasteland of dead and dying nerve cells littered with strange deposits. 
 There were two types of deposits, plaques and tangles. Plaques occur between nerve cells, and are now known to consist of clumps of beta amyloid, an abnormal protein. Tangles form inside nerve cells, and are made of a protein called tau that is normally part of a system of tubules that carry nutrients to feed the cell. Once tau is damaged, the nerve cells essentially starve to death. 
 Until the 1970s Alzheimer's disease was considered a rare brain disorder that mysteriously struck younger people like Auguste D.
 It was thought to be different from ''senility,'' which was assumed to be a consequence of aging. But then researchers compared the brains of younger people who had died of Alzheimer's with those of elderly people who had been senile, and discovered the same pathology -- plaques and tangles. Senility, they decided, was not a natural part of aging; it was a disease.
 The Amyloid Hypothesis
 The leading theory of Alzheimer's says that beta amyloid, or A-beta, is the main culprit, building gradually in the brain over decades and short-circuiting synapses, the junctions where nerve cells transmit signals to one other. Gradually, the theory goes, the cells quit working and die. 
 Everybody produces A-beta, but its purpose is not known. People who develop Alzheimer's either make too much or cannot get rid of it. Although scientists once blamed plaques for all the trouble, more recent research suggests that the real toxins are smaller bundles of A-beta molecules that form long before plaques do.
 Dr. Dennis J. Selkoe, a professor of neurologic diseases at Harvard, said that just as lowering cholesterol can prevent heart disease, lowering A-beta may prevent Alzheimer's or slow it, particularly in the early stages -- provided that drugs can be created to do the job.
 Several drugs and vaccines are now being tested that either block the production of A-beta or help the body get rid of it.
 Researchers are also testing anti-amyloid antibodies, which are proteins made by the immune system, as well as blood serum that contains the antibodies. 
 Eventually, Dr. Selkoe said, screening tests for Alzheimer's ''will be like getting an EKG in the doctor's office at 45 or 50, and you'll start treating right away to prevent Alzheimer's rather than treat it.''
 Other researchers are less enthusiastic, noting that there have been numerous failures and disappointments along the way. A vaccine study had to be halted in 2002 because 18 of 300 patients developed encephalitis, and 2 died. Some scientists worry that anti-amyloid vaccines in general could be dangerous, in part because the role of amyloid is not well understood and the brain may actually need it. 
 No Choice but to Cope
 Even if current research yields new drugs, there is not likely to be a miracle pill that will bring people back from deep dementia. For now, there is no choice but to cope with the disease. Seventy percent of Alzheimer's patients are cared for at home, and millions of families are struggling to look after them, piecing together a patchwork of relatives, friends, paid health aides and adult day-care programs. 
 Barbara Latshaw, 79, lives with her husband, David, and her sister in Crafton, Pa., near Pittsburgh. Ms. Latshaw, whose dementia was diagnosed in 1991, has not spoken in four years, and she can no longer smile. But she locks eyes with visitors and will not let go. 
 ''There is still something alive in there,'' said her sister, Fritzie Hess, 69. ''I'm convinced of it.'' 
 The family believes that, at least some of the time, she still understands them. They speak to her as if she does. She is with them, and yet gone, and they miss her terribly. 
 ''We hope to keep her here at home until she passes on,'' Ms. Hess said. ''She's a joy to us.'' 
 Many families hope to keep Alzheimer's patients at home, but not all can manage it, especially if family members have to go work or patients become combative, incontinent, immobile or unable to sleep at night. 
 ''There are three of us taking care of my sister, and it works out beautifully,'' Ms. Hess said. ''We spell each other. I don't know how these spouses manage, when it's one on one.'' 
 Ms. Hess and her brother-in-law are retired, and Ms. Latshaw's daughter, Becky Bannon, 53, is free to visit many mornings to help them get her mother out of bed, massage and exercise her arms and legs, change her diaper and dress and feed her.
 Ms. Latshaw used to be full of life. She loved to cook, played tennis and bridge, raised two children and took charge of redecorating the grand old family home. Then her memory began to slip: guests would arrive for dinner, and she would have no memory of inviting them. She forgot to look before pulling into traffic, and nearly caused an accident. She would wander out of the house, and local store clerks would take her home. She never turned hostile or angry, as many demented patients do, but she had vivid hallucinations of strings being caught in her teeth, and little men getting into her bed and jabbing her with broom straws. On especially bad nights, her husband would get up with her at 2 or 3 a.m. and make the two of them hot chocolate.
 Aricept, an Alzheimer's drug, made the hallucinations worse, while another drug, an antipsychotic used for schizophrenia, seemed to quell them. But the second drug had side effects: after taking it for several years, Ms. Latshaw began to grind her teeth, and could not stop moving her arms and legs. 
 Their father also suffered from dementia, Ms. Hess said, admitting that she wonders about herself. 
 ''Naturally I'm a little bit concerned, but I think worry is such a waste of time, so I don't dwell on it; I just don't,'' she said. ''My friends always said, 'You always had a bad memory.' I see Barbara and David's children having that same kind of memory.''
 Ms. Hess has volunteered for studies at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, where she became the first person in the United States to have a PIB study of her brain.
 ''I'm very anxious to get to the bottom of this whole Alzheimer's thing,'' she said.
 Nothing Left to Give
 In an interview in the summer of 2006, Ms. Kerley described her mother this way: ''She's completely withdrawn in herself. She hasn't recognized us for a few years. Basically she hums one line of one song over and over again. She seems to be stuck somewhere in her life between age 4 and 5.'' 
 Ms. Kerley said she and her son Michael, then 21, visited every week or two. 
 ''She loves getting her back rubbed, being smiled at, being hugged,'' Ms. Kerley said. ''She doesn't know who we are. We're going for us, not for her, because she doesn't remember us the minute we walk out the door.''
 She had signed her mother up for hospice care at the nursing home, meaning that she would receive medical care to keep her comfortable but no extraordinary measures like resuscitation if she began to fail. She said her mother would not want to be kept alive in her present condition.
 ''She has nothing left to give the world, and the world has nothing left to give to her,'' Ms. Kerley said. 
 Nearly a year and a half later, her mother is still alive, even though Ms. Kerley has declined liquid nutritional supplements, antibiotics and flu and pneumonia shots. 
 Her mother does not even hum anymore, and spends much of her time in a fetal position, except when she is at the dinner table. She can still walk, if led. 
 ''If my mother had her own choice, she would have offed herself a long time ago,'' Ms. Kerley said. ''There is no quality to her life.
 ''When she does go, it will be a blessing.'' 
 Ms. Kerley has already arranged to donate her mother's brain and her own to Washington University. She seriously doubts that she will develop Alzheimer's. She is more like her father than her mother, she said, and she is the most educated person in her family, reads constantly and stays in shape by swing dancing two to five nights a week. And her students keep her sharp. 
 ''If you want to keep up with me until you retire, that's fine,'' she said. ''I'm betting I'm not going to have that problem.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dianne Kerley is tending to her mother, who has Alzheimer's disease, and helping Alzheimer's researchers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERIK PARMELE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
Dianne Kerley, 52, washes the hand of her 78-year-old mother, who has Alzheimer's disease. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERIK PARMELE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A24) CHARTS: AMYLOID PLAQUES IN THE BRAIN (Source: University of Pittsburgh Medical Center) (pg. A24)
 Chart showing a healthy brain and one with Alzheimer's. SEVEN STAGES OF ALZHEIMER'S (Source: Alzheimer's Association) (pg. A24) Chart showing the seven stages of Alzheimer's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (93%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (90%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); DEMENTIA (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); DEMENTIA EVALUATION (78%); BRAIN (78%); NURSING HOMES (77%); CANCER (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (76%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (76%); STROKES (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (63%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (59%); ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (55%) MISSOURI, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



607 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Happiness for Sale

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
If money can't buy true love, at least it can pay for a nice dinner out. But what about happiness? In an editorial observer last month, I noted that many scholars studying happiness agree that it cannot: growing incomes don't make happiness grow. Now there is some evidence that this time-honored conclusion could be wrong. Recent analyses of polling data on life satisfaction across the world suggest that countries may indeed become happier as they grow richer. 
 The economic growth-doesn't-buy-happiness argument is also known as the Easterlin paradox for the economist Richard A. Easterlin. In 1974, he published research suggesting that despite stellar economic growth in the United States since World War II, ''higher income was not systematically accompanied by greater happiness.'' Mr. Easterlin later found that people were no happier in Japan in 1987 than in 1958, despite a fivefold jump in incomes. Other economists found similar patterns in other countries.
 This conclusion confounds a core economic belief that underpins a lot of policy-making around the world: that economic growth is an effective way to increase well-being. Some economists and psychologists suggest this thinking, unexpected if not downright ungrateful, might be due to adaptation. As people become richer, they raise their expectations -- becoming envious of a new, richer crowd. 
 Recent research, however, suggests there might not be a paradox after all. Using many polls that span several decades, Justin Wolfers, a professor at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, found that in many countries, growing incomes have been accompanied by increasing happiness. 
 This is not to say the hippies were wrong. Many other factors, including how we use our time and the quality of our relationships, affect happiness. Moreover, the correlation between rising incomes and increasing happiness is much more striking in poor countries -- where even a marginal improvement in the quality of life stands out -- than in rich ones. 
 Any challenge to the Easterlin paradox is likely to be disappointing to those of us in search of scientific backing for the urge to drop out of the rat race and play the guitar. It is reassuring to find that effective policies to improve economic growth and boost the incomes of the less fortunate would make their lives not only easier but apparently also happier. 
 EDUARDO PORTER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); WORLD WAR II (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



608 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Disappointing Sales During Holiday Season

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
American consumers, uneasy about the economy and unimpressed by the merchandise in stores, delivered the bleak holiday shopping season retailers had expected, if not feared, according to one early but influential projection.
 Spending between Thanksgiving and Christmas rose just 3.6 percent over last year, the weakest performance in at least four years, according to MasterCard Advisors, a division of the credit card company. By comparison, sales grew 6.6 percent in 2006, and 8 percent in 2005.
 ''There was not a recipe for a pick up in sales growth,'' said Michael McNamara, vice president of research and analysis at MasterCard Advisors, citing higher gas prices, a slowing housing market and a tight credit market. 
 Strong demand at the start of the season for a handful of must-have electronics, like digital frames and portable GPS navigation systems trailed off in December. And robust sales of luxury products could not make up for sluggish sales of jewelry and women's clothing.
 What did eventually sell was generally marked down -- once, if not twice -- which could hurt retailers' profits in the final three months of year. ''Stores are buying those sales at a cost,'' said Sherif Mityas, a partner at the consulting firm A.T. Kearney, who specializes in retailing.
 MasterCard's SpendingPulse data, scheduled to be released Wednesday, cover the 32-day period between Nov. 23 and Dec. 24. It is based on purchases made by more than 300 million MasterCard debit and credit card users and broader estimates of spending with cash and checks. It encompasses sales at stores, on the Internet, of gift cards, gasoline and meals at restaurants.
 The final numbers are in line with MasterCard's already modest expectations, which were reduced in the middle of the season. But retail analysts and economists, who scrutinize holiday spending for clues about the health of the American economy, are unlikely to be impressed by the results.
 Eboni Jones, 32, of Windsor, Conn., epitomized the problem for stores.
 A phone company manager, she waited until this past weekend to make a single purchase at a major chain store this season, favoring Web retailers and designer outlet stores with deeper bargains. 
 ''I am on a tighter budget that I've ever been,'' said Ms. Jones, who walked into the Macy's at Westfarms Mall in Farmington, Conn., on Sunday morning to take advantage of a sale.
 In the past, she easily spent $100 each on her six nieces and nephews. This year, it was more like $50. ''If it's not on sale, I won't buy it,'' Ms. Jones said.
 MasterCard found that online spending rose 22.4 percent, a healthy, if not robust, showing, given fears that Web purchases would slow after a decade of impressive growth.
 Clothing sales rose a meager 1.4 percent, but there was a stark split between genders. Sales for women's apparel dropped 2.4 percent. Sales for men's apparel rose 2.3 percent. Analysts said women complained of dreary fashions. 
 ''Even when the dust settles, women's clothing is likely to be one of the weakest categories in retail this season,'' said John D. Morris, senior retail analyst at Wachovia Securities.
 Luxury purchases rose 7.1 percent, as the nation's well-heeled splurged on $600 Marc Jacobs trench coats and $800 Christian Louboutin shoes. Footwear, at all prices, proved a bright spot for the clothing industry, with sales surging 6 percent.
 Weak sales of clothing left retailers jostling for the deepest if not most desperate discounts over the last weekend to drum up interest from consumers. Martin & Osa knocked 50 percent off women's wool sweaters. Gymboree issued $25 coupons to shoppers who spent $50 on its children's clothing. Even the markdown-averse Abercrombie & Fitch dusted off its clearance signs, selling $99 faux-fur trimmed-down coats for $79.
 The American consumer has perplexed analysts this season. Retail experts confidently predicted that shoppers, uneasy about the economy, would trade down from mid-price chains, like Macy's and Nordstrom, to discounters with steeper discounts.
 To a certain degree, they did, mobbing low-priced chains like T.J Maxx, and Marshall's. But the discount retailer Target has struggled this season. On Tuesday, it said its sales could fall by 1 percent in December compared with last year, an anomaly for a retailer accustomed to at least 4 percent monthly sales growth over the last three years.
 In the end, analysts said, the biggest winners are likely to be Wal-Mart, which emerged as the undisputed low-price leader this season, and Best Buy, which became the destination for competitively priced electronics.
 Much of this season's action appeared to unfold on the Web, which spared consumers a $3-a-gallon drive to the mall. Like MasterCard, ComScore, a research firm, found that online spending rose steadily to $26.3 billion.
 ComScore measured spending during the 51 days between Nov. 1 and Dec. 21. The biggest day for online shopping was Monday, Dec. 10 ($881 million), not the Monday after Thanksgiving ($733 million), known as Cyber Monday in the retail world, because consumers typically flock to the Web at work after a holiday weekend of browsing.
 Unsatisfied with sales so far, dozens of retailers, from the high-end to the low, will start slashing prices Wednesday morning. Kohl's is scheduled to hold a 60- to 70-percent off sale; Macy's is knocking down prices by 50 to 70 percent, and dangling a $10 coupon for purchases of $25 or more; clothing will be 50 percent off at Saks Fifth Avenue between 8 a.m. and noon; and Toys ''R'' Us is offering a buy-one-get-one-half-off promotion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); JEWELRY (73%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (68%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (53%)

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (94%)

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (94%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



609 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Spending Is Weak, Just as Retailers Expected

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
American consumers, uneasy about the economy and unimpressed by the merchandise in stores, delivered the bleak holiday shopping season retailers had expected, if not feared, according to one early but influential projection.
 Spending from Thanksgiving to Christmas rose just 3.6 percent over last year, the weakest performance in at least four years, according to MasterCard Advisors, a division of the credit card company. By comparison, sales grew 6.6 percent in 2006 and 8.7 percent in 2005.
 ''There was not a recipe for a pickup in sales growth,'' said Michael McNamara, vice president for research and analysis at MasterCard Advisors, citing higher gas prices, a slowing housing market and a tight credit market. 
 Strong demand at the start of the season for a handful of must-have electronics, like digital frames and portable G.P.S. navigation systems, trailed off in December. And robust sales of luxury products could not make up for sluggish sales of jewelry and women's clothing.
 What did eventually sell was generally marked down -- once, if not twice -- which could hurt retailers' profits in the final three months of year. ''Stores are buying those sales at a cost,'' said Sherif Mityas, a partner at the consulting firm A. T. Kearney, who specializes in retailing.
 MasterCard's SpendingPulse data, scheduled to be released Wednesday, cover the 32-day period from Nov. 23 to Dec. 24. It is based on purchases made by more than 300 million MasterCard debit and credit card users and broader estimates of spending with cash and checks. It encompasses sales at stores and on the Internet, and of gift cards, gasoline and meals at restaurants, but is not adjusted for inflation.
 Excluding gas purchases, overall holiday sales rose a lackluster 2.4 percent, the credit card company said. 
 The final numbers are at the low end of MasterCard's already modest expectations, which were reduced in the middle of the season. So retail analysts and economists, who scrutinize holiday spending for clues about the health of the American economy, are unlikely to be impressed by the results.
 Eboni Jones, 32, of Windsor, Conn., epitomized the problem for stores.
 A phone company manager, she waited until Christmas Eve to make a single purchase at a major chain store this season, favoring Web retailers and designer outlet stores offering deep bargains. 
 ''I am on a tighter budget than I've ever been,'' said Ms. Jones, who walked into the Macy's at Westfarms Mall in Farmington, Conn., on Monday morning to take advantage of a sale.
 In the past, she easily spent $100 each on her six nieces and nephews. This year, it was more like $50. ''If it's not on sale, I won't buy it,'' Ms. Jones said.
 MasterCard found that online spending rose 22.4 percent, a strong showing, given fears that Web purchases would slow after a decade of impressive growth.
 Clothing sales rose a meager 1.4 percent, but there was a stark split between genders. Sales for women's apparel dropped 2.4 percent. Sales for men's apparel rose 2.3 percent. Analysts said women complained of dreary fashions. 
 ''Even when the dust settles, women's clothing is likely to be one of the weakest categories in retail this season,'' said John D. Morris, senior retail analyst at Wachovia Securities.
 Luxury purchases rose 7.1 percent, as the well-heeled splurged on $600 Marc Jacobs trench coats and $800 Christian Louboutin shoes. Footwear, at all prices, proved a bright spot for the clothing industry, with sales surging 6 percent.
 Weak sales of clothing left retailers jostling for the deepest discounts during the last weekend to drum up interest from consumers. Martin & Osa knocked 50 percent off women's wool sweaters. Gymboree issued $25 coupons to shoppers who spent $50 on its children's clothing. Even the markdown-averse Abercrombie & Fitch dusted off its clearance signs, selling down coats with faux fur trim for $79, reduced from $99.
 The American consumer has perplexed analysts this season. Retail experts confidently predicted that shoppers, uncertain about the economy, would trade down from midprice chains, like Macy's and Nordstrom, to discounters with steeper discounts.
 To a certain degree, they did, mobbing low-price chains like T. J. Maxx, and Marshalls. But the discount retailer Target has struggled this season. On Monday, it said its sales could fall by 1 percent in December compared with last year, an anomaly for a retailer accustomed to at least 4 percent monthly sales growth over the last three years.
 In the end, analysts said, the biggest winners are likely to be Wal-Mart, which emerged as the undisputed low-price leader this season, and Best Buy, which became the destination for competitively priced electronics.
 Much of this season's action appeared to unfold on the Web, which spared consumers a $3-a-gallon drive to the mall. Like MasterCard, ComScore, a research firm, found that online spending rose steadily to $26.3 billion.
 ComScore measured spending during the 51 days from Nov. 1 to Dec. 21. The biggest day for online shopping was Monday, Dec. 10 ($881 million), not the Monday after Thanksgiving ($733 million), known as Cyber Monday in the retail world, because consumers typically flock to the Web at work after a holiday weekend of store browsing.
 Unsatisfied with sales so far, dozens of retailers, from the high-end to the low, will start slashing prices Wednesday morning. Kohl's is scheduled to hold a sale with 60 to 70 percent discounts; Macy's is knocking down prices by 50 to 70 percent, and dangling a $10 coupon for purchases of $25 or more; some clothing will be 50 percent off at Saks Fifth Avenue from 8 a.m. to noon; and Toys ''R'' Us is offering a buy-one-get-one-half-off promotion.
 MasterCard Advisors predicts that shoppers will spend up to $60 billion over the next seven days, as they redeem gift cards and exchange unwanted ties and sweaters for the items they truly want.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shoppers near the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.C1)
Struggling with tepid sales, many retailers like Macy's, above, intend to cut prices drastically on Wednesday. Macy's also plans to offer a coupon for $10 on purchases of $25 or more. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C4) CHART: A MIXED BAG: Preliminary estimates show that spending in some retail categories was up this year from Thanksgiving to Christmas. (SOURCE: MASTERCARD
 ADVISORS: SPENDINGPULSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); JEWELRY (73%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); BUDGET CUTS (61%)

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (95%)

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (95%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



610 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Aims to Be No. 1 In 2008 Vehicle Sales

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
NAGOYA, Japan -- Toyota said Tuesday that it planned to sell 9.85 million vehicles worldwide in 2008, setting an ambitious target despite worries about a slowing car market in the United States.
 Toyota, which is trying to beat General Motors to become the world's biggest automaker by sales, also said it would produce 9.95 million vehicles worldwide next year, up 5 percent from this year. The company projects a corresponding jump in global sales.
 Toyota's recent growth has put it on track to outsell General Motors in 2008. General Motors has placed this year's sales estimate at 9.3 million vehicles, compared with Toyota's estimate of 9.36 million. 
 Soaring gas prices have sharply bolstered the appeal of smaller fuel-efficient models that are Toyota's main strength. Toyota's sales have been lifted by the popularity of models like the Camry sedan, Corolla subcompact and the Prius gas-electric hybrid.
 General Motors has been fiercely fighting back -- largely by strengthening its business overseas -- and could still keep the top industry spot, which it has held for 76 years.
 G.M. has not given a forecast for the number of vehicles it expects to produce or sell in 2008. Back in 1978, the Detroit automaker set the industry record for annual global vehicle sales, 9.55 million.
 Toyota executives acknowledged Tuesday that they worried about the market in the United States, where the subprime mortgage crisis and rising oil prices have hit consumers hard. But they nonetheless projected a 1 percent sales increase in the United States, to 2.64 million vehicles in 2008.
 The executives were bullish about prospects for emerging markets like China, Russia and South America, but set conservative expectations for Europe, where they projected a 2 percent increase, to 1.27 million vehicles sold. In Japan, Toyota expects sales to remain flat, at 1.6 million vehicles next year.
 Koji Endo, an auto analyst with Credit Suisse in Tokyo, said that next year would most likely prove a challenge even for Toyota, as American economic woes weigh on sales and profits. But he said the overall optimism for sales growth made sense, given Toyota's recent performance.
 ''These are targets Toyota is giving, not forecasts, and so they are reasonable,'' he said.
 During the first nine months of this year, Toyota sold 7.05 million vehicles sold worldwide, just shy of G.M.'s figure of 7.06 million. The final tally for 2007 will be available in January.
 A G.M. spokesman in Tokyo, Michihiro Yamamori, declined to comment, citing a company policy against commenting on its rivals' goals.
 Toyota also said it was preparing to start mass-producing lithium-ion batteries for low-emission vehicles.
 Lithium-ion batteries, which are already in wide use in laptops and other gadgets, are smaller yet more powerful than the nickel-metal hydride batteries now used in gas-electric hybrids like the Prius. But lithium-ion batteries will not be used in the Prius, which has been on sale for a decade and is the most popular hybrid on the market, according to Toyota.
 The lithium-ion battery will be used in a plug-in hybrid, which would recharge from a regular home power socket and travel longer as an electric vehicle than the Prius. Toyota has started tests on its plug-in hybrid, but has not shown a model using the new battery.
 Masatami Takimoto, an executive vice president who oversees technology, said that Toyota's lithium-ion battery was almost ready for mass production, but would not start up until after 2008.
 Katsuaki Watanabe, the president of Toyota, said that hybrids would be a pillar of Toyota's growth in the years ahead, and reiterated the company's plan to offer hybrid versions of all its models after 2020.
 In keeping with its aim to conserve energy and be efficient in both its manufacturing and its products, Toyota will use solar energy and wind power to reduce global warming emissions at what it called five ''sustainable plants.'' A plant being built in Mississippi, set to be in use in 2010, will be one such plant, Toyota said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katsuaki Watanabe, president of Toyota Motor, after he gave his forecasts. Toyota's small, fuel-efficient cars have been popular. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAZUHIRO NOGI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) CHART: A NEW MILESTONE?: Toyota, which may have passed G.M. as the world's largest vehicle maker this year, has set an ambitious sales goal for next year. (SOURCES: TOYOTA
 GENERAL MOTORS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SEDANS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); CREDIT CRISIS (64%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) CHUBU JAPAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



611 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths COFFEE, MARY MORSE

 BODY:
 COFFEE--Mary Morse, 88, died December 25, 2007. For over 65 years, the devoted wife of J. Collins Coffee, mother of John, Robert and Richard, grandmother of Megan, Kerry, Clark and John Barton. A civic and community leader in the Manhasset area, she was the first woman trustee of the Village of Plandome, a director of the first economic development and antipoverty corporation established in the Town of North Hempstead, and a longtime leader and Director Emeritus of the Plandome Womans Club. Born in Troy, New York, in 1919, she graduated from Albany High School and St. Rose College and proudly traced her ancestry back to the Morse family that settled in New England in the mid-17th century. Relied upon by many, she gave much more than she received. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%)

PERSON: KERRY CLARK (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



612 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-12
 New Technology in India Replaces Old Professions
 As India swells under the force of its booming economy, professions like letter writing are being supplanted by easily available cellphones and text messaging. There are now mall attendants in a nation that until lately had no malls, McDonald's cashiers where cows are sacred, and Porsche sales executives in a land where most people still walk. A1 
 Turks Claim Deaths of Kurds
 Turkish airstrikes on Kurdish rebels in northern Iraq have killed more than 150 rebels and hit more than 200 targets in recent days, the Turkish military said, countering Kurdish claims that only a handful of people were killed in the attacks.A8 
 Exile to Return to Thailand
 With his backers claiming victory in a parliamentary election, former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, left, who was ousted in a coup 15 months ago, said that he was prepared to return to Thailand in the next few months but that he would forgo politics.A3 
 Iran to Release Students
 Three Iranian students who were sentenced to two to three years in prison for crimes including insulting the nation's supreme leader are expected to be released this week on bail, their lawyer said. The students were part of the pro-democracy movement at Amir Kabir University in Iran, a center of political activity and dissent. A10 
 Egyptian Weapons in Gaza
 Israel and Egypt traded accusations over the smuggling of weapons from the Egyptian Sinai into Gaza, a day before Israel's defense minister, Ehud Barak, was to meet President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, above, and his top security officials in Sharm el Sheik, the Sinai resort. A11 
 25 Killed by Iraqi Car Bomb
 At least 25 people were killed when a suicide bomber rammed his truck into a line of Iraqis near a checkpoint outside the Baiji oil refinery in northern Iraq, the police said. Estimates of the death toll varied. The police in Baiji and the Interior Ministry in Baghdad said 25 were killed, while Col. Dara Ghafour, an Iraqi Army spokesman, put the toll at 29.A8 
 Catholicism Suffers in Macao
 Macao's gambling-fueled economic boom has posed an unexpected challenge to Roman Catholicism, as many Macanese chase quick riches. There are as many casinos as Catholic churches, and unlike the churches, the casinos are full and quickly growing in number. A4 
 NATIONALA16-28
 Execution Support Slips, But Texas Carries On
 Despite a de facto national moratorium on capital punishment, Texas has bucked the trend, as more than 60 percent of all executions in the United States this year took place in the state. David R. Dow, a law professor who has represented death-row inmates, says the day is not far off when essentially all executions in the United States will take place in Texas. Adeath 
 Clinton Assertions Challenged
 In seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, Hillary Rodham Clinton lays claim to two traits nearly every day: strength and experience. But her rivals have increasingly been challenging her assertions of unique experience. Senator Barack Obama has especially questioned ''what experiences she's claiming'' as first lady, noting that the job is not the same as being a cabinet member, much less president. A1
 Parish Leader Rebuffed
 Junior Rodriguez spent 30 years as a political leader in Louisiana's St. Bernard Parish, which was heavily hit by Hurricane Katrina. But his failed bid for re-election as parish president appears to be a reflection of voters' frustration at how little their community has recovered. ''I didn't just run against an opponent, though he's an excellent politician,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''I ran against a hurricane.'' A16
 Student Missing Over Holiday
 Matthew Wilson, a Rice University student, never made it home for Christmas. Due on Friday at his mother's house in Haworth, Okla., he vanished from his off-campus apartment. University officials do not consider Mr. Wilson a runaway, and Houston Crime Stoppers offered a $5,000 reward for information leading to felony charges. A12 
 Combatting Global Gangs
 Two gangs that originated on the streets of Los Angeles have grown so large in El Salvador that there are two prisons in that country devoted exclusively to their members, one for each gang, according to officials who traveled there recently to meet with the local authorities. The growth in the gangs' transnational networks has made these criminal organizations all the more worrisome, officials say. A16 
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 Race Against Alzheimer's
 An ambitious new scientific effort is under way to find ways to detect Alzheimer's disease at the earliest possible moment. Although the disease may seem like a calamity that strikes suddenly in old age, scientists now think it begins long before the mind fails. Many scientists believe the best hope of progress, maybe the only hope, lies in detecting the disease early and devising treatments to stop it before brain damage becomes extensive. A1 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-4
 Queens Libraries Get Tough On Late Returns
 The Queens library system has hired a professional enforcer to collect late fines and missing library materials. Borrowers who fail to return books can be reported to a collection agency and to a credit bureau, with a damaged credit rating as a result. B1 
 Jon Bon Jovi, Statesman
 Jon Bon Jovi, the rock and roll star from New Jersey, can lay claim to the unofficial title of the Garden State's elder statesman. Mr. Bon Jovi is in high demand from many state and national politicians, among them the leading Democratic presidential candidates.B1 
 Comics in the Classroom
 New York City teachers are turning to comic books as a way to interest students as teachers nationwide are struggling to boost reading scores. Skeptics fret that comics could become a vehicle for watering down lessons. B1
 SPORTSWEDNESDAYD1-6 
 Fishing in Icy Maine
 Smelt fishing is a deep and dependable tradition on Maine's coast. As soon as the ice is thick enough, smelters drag their customized shanties onto the tidal rivers and sit inside them, stoking wood stoves and tending to baited lines that hang through holes in the ice. Every December, whole villages of such smelt shacks spring up almost overnight here -- a signal of winter's arrival. D2
 DINING OUTF1-10
 A Tempest in a Flute
 Under French law, the only sparkling wine anywhere in the world that merits the name Champagne with a capital C must be made from grapes grown on officially designated plots of land in France. But as global demand for Champagne soars, pressure is mounting to expand Champagne country. Farmers and landowners who are not on Champagne-designated land hope to join the exclusive club of insiders. F1
 OBITUARIESC8
 John A. Garraty
 A historian who wrestled into print the gargantuan reference work American National Biography, which in 24 volumes tells the story of the United States through the life histories of thousands, he was 87.C8
 Stephen Radich
 A New York art gallery owner who became embroiled in a famous legal case involving flag desecration in the late 1960s, died on Dec. 18. He was 85, and lived in New York. C8
 BUSINESS DAYC1-7
 Berkshire Hathaway Deal
 Berkshire Hathaway, the company controlled by Warren E. Buffett, said that it would pay $4.5 billion for a controlling stake in Marmon Holdings, an industrial conglomerate. The deal represents Berkshire Hathaway's largest acquisition outside the insurance industry. A1 
 Medical Nuclear Race
 Medical centers are rushing to turn nuclear particle accelerators into the latest weapons against cancer. Some experts say the push reflects the best and worst of the nation's market-based health care system. A1 
 A Bleak Shopping Season
 American consumers, uneasy about the economy and unimpressed by the merchandise in stores, delivered the bleak holiday shopping season retailers had expected, if not feared. C1
 Toyota Sets Goal
 Toyota, which is trying to beat General Motors to become the world's biggest automaker by sales, said it planned to sell 9.85 million vehicles worldwide in 2008, setting an ambitious target despite worries about a slowing American car market. C3
 Business DigestC2 
 EDITORIALA30-31
 Editorials: The work remaining; democracy and South Africa; Medicare private plan abuses; Eduardo Porter on happiness for sale.
 Column: Maureen Dowd.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); PRISONS (87%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (85%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TEXT MESSAGING (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ARMIES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); COUPS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); SENTENCING (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); ELECTIONS (69%); BAIL (67%); SMUGGLING (65%); TRENDS (64%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); EHUD BARAK (53%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) EGYPT (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDIA (94%); TURKEY (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (87%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



613 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths COFFEE, MARY MORSE

 BODY:
 COFFEE--Mary Morse, 88, died December 25, 2007. For over 65 years, the devoted wife of J. Collins Coffee, mother of John, Robert and Richard, grandmother of Megan, Kerry, Clark and John Barton. A civic and community leader in the Manhasset area, she was the first woman trustee of the Village of Plandome, a director of the first economic development and antipoverty corporation established in the Town of North Hempstead, and a longtime leader and Director Emeritus of the Plandome Womans Club. Born in Troy, New York, in 1919, she graduated from Albany High School and St. Rose College and proudly traced her ancestry back to the Morse family that settled in New England in the mid-17th century. Relied upon by many, she gave much more than she received. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%)

PERSON: KERRY CLARK (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



614 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 713 words

BYLINE: By AP

 BODY:
ALLIANCE IN L.C.D.'SMatsushita, Hitachi and Canon announced Tuesday a tie-up in their liquid crystal display businesses.
 The deal creates a third major force in the flat-panel industry in Japan, along with Sony's alliance with Samsung Electronics of South Korea and the teaming of Sharp and Toshiba, which was announced last week.
 Matsushita and Canon will each acquire 24.9 percent of Hitachi Displays by March 31, the companies said in a statement. Canon may eventually take over a majority stake in Hitachi Displays, it said. The tie-up will allow Canon to procure a steady supply of monitors for digital cameras. (AP) 
 SANYO'S LOSSES WIDEN The Sanyo Electric Company said Tuesday it was amending earnings reports back to 2000 to record greater losses.
 Sanyo, based in Osaka, Japan, said it had booked 6 billion yen ($52.6 million) more in losses for April 2000 through September 2007 than it had previously reported.
 Sanyo had earlier reported an accumulated loss of 372.6 billion yen ($3.3 billion) in securities and assets at its 84 affiliates over the same period. The company blamed a lack of understanding of accounting rules and principles, as well as weak internal regulatory systems, but denied any intentional falsification. (AP)
 RUSSIAN ENERGY FUND Russia will keep its $151 billion oil and gas fund entirely in sovereign bonds next year and will not invest a $19 billion subfund in corporate debt or stock, a top Finance Ministry official said Tuesday.
 The fund will be split on Feb. 1 into a reserve fund, which will act as insurance to cover any budget deficit caused by a fall in energy prices, and a more growth-oriented National Wealth Fund.
 The decision means that Russia will not join the ranks of countries like China and Singapore, which have large sovereign wealth funds, leading to concern in the developed world over possible aggressive acquisition strategies and low transparency.
 The Russian fund was created in 2004 to cushion the budget from a fall in oil prices, but it has since outgrown its original goal. (REUTERS)
 JAPANESE OFFICIALS SEE RISKS Bank of Japan policy makers said global financial markets remained volatile and risks to world economic growth were rising, minutes show.
 ''Global financial markets continued to be unstable and there was uncertainty regarding global economic developments,'' most board members said at their policy meeting on Nov. 12 and 13, according to the minutes published Wednesday in Tokyo.
 Last week the Bank of Japan kept the benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent and cut its economic assessment for the first time in three years.
 Some members said the risk ''had increased somewhat'' that the economy in the United States, Japan's largest export market, would lose further momentum, although they added that it would probably keep growing, the minutes show.
 (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 POWER PLANT SALE The Itochu Corporation, a Japanese trading company, will buy a power plant in Virginia from Tenaska Inc.
 The company agreed to buy the Commonwealth Chesapeake Power Station, which has a capacity of 315 megawatts, it said Tuesday on its Web site.
 An Itochu spokesman, Masahide Kitagawa, said by phone he could not reveal how much the deal was worth, saying the company was still in negotiations. The Nikkei newspaper reported Tuesday that Itochu would pay 20 billion to 30 billion yen ($175 million to $263 million).
 The power project is Itochu's fourth in the United States. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 ARRESTS ORDERED IN NIGERIA A judge in Kano, Nigeria, has ordered the arrest of three Pfizer officials, saying they failed to appear in court in a $2 billion suit the company is facing over a 1996 drug trial, court papers showed.
 The officials include the head of Pfizer in Nigeria, Ngozi Edozien, and two senior officials, Lere Baale and Segun Donguro, court papers said.
 Trials for the antibiotic Trovan were conducted in Kano on 200 children during a meningitis epidemic. Nigeria charges that Pfizer conducted the trials illegally, causing the death of 11 children and injury to dozens of others.
 A message left with Pfizer headquarters in New York was not immediately answered Tuesday. The company has always denied wrongdoing and insists the drug saved lives. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONITORS & DISPLAYS (90%); COMPUTER PERIPHERAL MFG (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); ACQUISITIONS (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ACCOUNTING (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); BONDS (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); EXPORT TRADE (62%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: CANON INC (95%); HITACHI LTD (92%); SANYO ELECTRIC CO LTD (84%); TOSHIBA CORP (58%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%)

TICKER: CAJ (NYSE) (95%); 7751 (TSE) (95%); 6501 (TSE) (92%); TOS (LSE) (58%); 6502 (TSE) (58%); SMSN (LSE) (58%); 005930 (KSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (95%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335912 PRIMARY BATTERY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); OSAKA, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2007



615 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC SCENE: Let's Raise A Glass To Fairness

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''We are fortunate to be living in a time when there is a lot of good wine from around the world,'' Philip Cook was telling me the other day.
 Mr. Cook's favorite everyday wine is an Australian cabernet sauvignon made by Yellow Tail, the winemaker whose ads you see all over the place. It costs just $7, which he considers a terrific bargain. When Mr. Cook -- who's an economist at Duke University -- decides to spend a bit more money, he thinks he often gets even better value. For a recent holiday dinner at home in North Carolina, the Cook family drank a big, delicious Rioja from Spain that was only $14.
 The main cause of this golden age of inexpensive wine is the obvious one: globalization. Once confined to a small part of Europe, the making (and exporting) of great wine is now done across the globe. 
 But there is also another factor that gets less attention. Since the early 1990s, the federal tax on wine -- $1.07 a gallon -- hasn't budged. The taxes on beer and liquor haven't changed either, which means that, in inflation-adjusted terms, alcohol taxes have been steadily falling. 
 Each of the three taxes is now effectively 33 percent lower than it was in 1992. Since 1970, the federal beer tax has plummeted 63 percent. Many states taxes have also been falling.
 At first blush, this sounds like good news: who likes to pay taxes, right? But taxes serve a purpose beyond merely raising general government revenue. Taxes on a given activity are also supposed to pay the costs that activity imposes on society. And for all that is wonderful about wine, beer and liquor, they clearly bring some heavy costs. 
 Right now, the patchwork of alcohol taxes isn't coming close to covering those costs -- the costs of drunken-driving checkpoints, of hospital bills for alcohol-related accidents and child abuse, and of the economic loss caused by death and injury. Last year, some 17,000 Americans, or almost 50 a day, died in alcohol-related car accidents. An additional 65,000 people a year die from other accidents, assaults or illnesses in which alcohol plays a major role.
 Mr. Cook, besides being a wine lover, has been thinking about the costs and benefits of alcohol for much of his career, and he has come up with a blunt way of describing the problem. ''Do you think we should be subsidizing alcohol?'' he asks. ''Because that's what we're doing.''
 What's especially unfortunate is that several states are now considering raising their general sales tax, the one that applies to most retail items, to deal with budget problems. Last month, Maryland increased its sales tax to 6 percent, from 5 percent. Georgia and Indiana are also looking at increases.
 These tax increases would raise the price of a huge array of items -- winter coats, dictionaries, Ella Fitzgerald CDs, you name it -- that leave no social costs in their wake. Relative to alcohol, they are already overtaxed.
 There's a better way to go, and it's staring us right in the face. At the same time that the Maryland Legislature raised the state sales tax, it also doubled its tobacco tax, to $2 a pack. Across the country, tobacco taxes have been soaring in recent years. 
 The argument for higher tobacco taxes is simple enough. They help pay Medicare and Medicaid bills for tobacco-related illnesses and also lead to a decline in smoking. On average, a 10 percent increase in the price of cigarettes causes about a 5 percent drop in smoking, studies show. Not even addiction, it turns out, can overcome the laws of supply and demand.
 If anything, the argument for higher alcohol taxes is even stronger. Tobacco kills many more people than alcohol, but it mainly kills those who use the product. Many alcohol victims are simply driving on the wrong road at the wrong time. Many are also quite young.
 Politically, though, the case for alcohol taxes is harder to make, because drinking is so much more socially acceptable than smoking. In many places -- like Mr. Cook's house and mine -- a glass of wine or a beer is a standard part of dinner. Nationally, about 25 percent of people have at least one drink a day, and 40 percent drink occasionally.
 Those of us in this drinking majority tend to assume that we're not the ones who will create problems. As Jeff Becker, the president of the Beer Institute, an industry group, told me, ''Most people -- the vast majority of consumers -- don't impose any additional costs on anyone.''
 Which may well be true. And if it were somehow possible to tax only those people who were going to drive drunk in the future, it would be a wonderful idea. (Then again, we might just want to take away their driver's licenses.) Barring clairvoyance, though, raising alcohol taxes from their current lows seems to be the fairest solution.
 Mr. Cook has written a wonderful little book, ''Paying the Tab,'' making this case. In it, he draws on history, political philosophy and straight economics to point out that higher alcohol taxes would fit squarely in the American tradition.
 Unlike Prohibition -- or stricter minimum-age drinking laws -- a reasonable tax would still allow people to make their own choices about drinking. They would simply be asked to pay the true cost of the product they're buying. 
 At a minimum Mr. Cook suggests raising beer and wine taxes (which are now about 7 to 10 cents a drink) to the level of liquor taxes (more than 20 cents a drink) and then indexing them all to inflation. This would be an especially good time for the change, because drunken-driving deaths -- which fell rapidly after the start of public-service campaigns in the 1980's -- have plateaued. 
 History shows that even a modest price increase will lead to a decline in drinking. When drinking has fallen in the past, drunken driving and the incidence of cirrhosis and sexually transmitted diseases have declined, too. So a tax increase would probably save thousands of lives. 
 The companies making wine, beer and liquor would fight this, of course. They would argue that higher taxes would destroy jobs in their industry. That's just a scare tactic -- the money that was no longer being spent on alcohol would instead be spent on other products. Opponents might also point out that alcohol taxes fall more heavily on the poor and middle class. That's correct, but saving lives is more important. 
 In any event, people who have studied the issue and don't have a financial stake in it tend to agree with Mr. Cook. ''Taxes are way too low on alcohol,'' Jonathan Gruber, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, says. ''It's a public-policy failure.''
 That sounds like grist for a 2008 resolution: I hope everyone has a happy New Year and gets a chance to drink something good Monday night, whether it's Champagne, Prosecco or a sparkling wine from Spain, South Africa or even New Mexico. And sometime soon, I hope none of them come with such an artificial discount. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Champagne is often worth the price, and then some. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPH: TAXING ALCOHOL: Federal taxes on alcoholic beverages, when adjusted for inflation, have declined sharply in the last 40 years. (SOURCE: PHILLIP COOK, DUKE UNIVERSITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WINE (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (87%); SALES TAX (87%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (76%); WINERIES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (66%); CHILD ABUSE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009



616 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices Fell Faster In October

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The decline in home prices accelerated and spread to more regions of the country in October, according to data released Wednesday.
 Prices fell 6.1 percent from October 2006 in 20 large metropolitan areas, according to Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller indexes, compared with a 4.9 percent decline in September. On a monthly basis, prices fell 1.4 percent in October, the fastest they have declined in at least the last seven years.
 All but three of the 20 regions experienced a fall in real estate values, and even the three areas -- Seattle, Portland, Ore., and Charlotte, N.C. -- where prices were up from a year ago, had a decline from a month earlier. 
 The quickening pace of decline could hurt the broader economy by leading to more foreclosures as homeowners have difficulty refinancing mortgages and by sapping consumer spending as Americans feel less wealthy. But economists also said that a faster descent from boom-era prices would allow the housing market to right itself sooner by encouraging the sale of vacant homes and reducing the inventory of properties on the market. 
 During the boom, rising home prices increased consumer spending because people felt more wealthy and were able to borrow against their new home equity. Now that process is reversing itself, said Patrick Newport, an economist at Global Insight, a research firm outside Boston. ''And the foreclosure rates are going to go up a little more. If prices are falling, you are more likely to default'' because the house may be worth less than the mortgage on it. 
 So far, weakness in housing and the credit markets has been offset by strong exports and rising wages. Consumer spending in the holiday season has been weaker than some retailers had hoped, though reports indicate that it is still growing.
 ''It has been surprisingly resilient,'' Robert J. Shiller, the Yale economist and a creator of the home price indexes, said about the economy. He added that it was difficult to determine what impact the weakness in housing would have on the economy going forward. 
 ''We are in uncharted territory,'' he said. ''This was the biggest housing boom we have ever seen.''
 By Mr. Shiller's calculation, the decline in home prices is greater than at any time since 1941, when the housing market was faltering at the start of the American entry in World War II. Since their peak in July 2006, home prices in the 20 regions have dropped 6.6 percent. Many economists are predicting that home prices will fall 10 percent to 15 percent from their peak to their trough, though some pessimists say the drop could be as much as 30 percent.
 Prices are dropping fastest in the Midwest, which has been hit hard by job losses in manufacturing, and in California, Florida and the Southwest, where the housing boom was most pronounced. 
 Prices have fallen the most in Miami (down 12.4 percent from a year ago), Tampa (11.8 percent) and Detroit (11.2 percent). Prices are also falling in the nation's two largest metropolitan areas -- Los Angeles (8.8 percent) and New York (4.1 percent).
 In Charlotte, Seattle and Portland, where the local economies are somewhat healthier, prices were up from a year ago but lower than in September. Dallas and Atlanta, where prices were strong earlier in the year, experienced declines over the previous month and the year.
 ''It suggests to me that the psychological factor is very important,'' Mr. Shiller said. ''Even in cities that are doing well, people see what is going on nationwide and they don't want to bid as much.''
 A real estate broker at Brio Realty in Bellevue, Wash., Ardell DellaLoggia, said home buyers whom she represents had become more cautious about how much they were willing to offer for homes because they were unsure about the future. Stricter lending standards have also made it harder for buyers to get jumbo loans larger than $417,000, and lenders are again requiring sizable down payments for all kinds of loans. 
 ''Paying as low as you can is your insurance to whatever may happen in the next couple of years,'' Ms. DellaLoggia said, adding that she did not have to cut the prices on any of the homes she had sold recently. ''But it took 90 days to get an offer instead of 30.''
 Pending sales of single-family homes and condos in the Seattle area fell by a third in September from the same month last year, according to data from the Northwest Multiple Listing Service. The number of homes on the market has also been rising fast.
 Edward E. Leamer, an economist at the University of California, Los Angeles, said the declines in Seattle and elsewhere should not be surprising because they were also caught up in the housing boom that was fueled by low interest rates and lax lending standards. 
 ''Finance is not local,'' he said as a counterpoint to the maxim that real estate is local. ''The availability of mortgages at extremely easy terms affected every home in the United States.''
 The Case-Shiller indexes, which Mr. Shiller created with Karl E. Case, an economics professor at Wellesley College, track same-home sales over time in an effort to remove the influence of the changing composition of properties sold from month to month. The government has a similar index based on mortgages bought by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that covers more of the country but does not track sales where jumbo loans are used.
 Stocks fell modestly after the latest home price data was released Wednesday morning, but the market closed essentially flat for the day.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ''Prices Falling Faster'' Home prices in 20 large cities fell 6.1 percent in October compared with October 2006. (Source: Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); RETAILERS (68%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (68%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (78%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (77%) OREGON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007



617 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Weak Holiday Results Feed Disappointment

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks finished largely flat Wednesday as investors returned from the Christmas holiday to news of weaker-than-expected retail sales and a jump in oil prices.
 The International Council of Shopping Centers said its index of retail chain-store sales rose 2.8 percent last week, putting merchants on track for a smaller sales gain than the trade group originally expected. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.36 points, or 0.02 percent, to 13,551.69. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.21 points, or 0.08 percent, to 1,497.66. The Nasdaq composite index rose 10.91 points, or 0.40 percent, to 2,724.41. 
 Target indicated its sales might have fallen in December, while MasterCard said holiday spending -- including credit, cash and checks -- climbed a modest 3.6 percent from Thanksgiving to Christmas. That compares with a rise of 6.6 percent over the same period last year. 
 The 2007 holiday figure is at the low end of its expected 3.5 to 4.5 percent range. Excluding gasoline and auto sales, the figure was 2.4 percent.
 Slow holiday sales were widely expected, but the news could still raise concerns about the strength of consumer spending and, in turn, the economy. 
 A report that home prices fell for the 10th consecutive month in October also appeared to limit the stock gains.
 Kim Caughey, senior equity analyst at the Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh, said reports on retailing had dashed some investors' hopes for strong consumer spending in the long weekend before Christmas.
 ''From the quick analysis it doesn't look like it was a great year. I think investors had held out hope that retail might have had that final flourish. It was a sad flourish, not a strong one,'' she said. 
 Ms. Caughey said, however, that light trading in both Monday's and Wednesday's sessions meant that investors should not read too much into the market's moves. ''A little bit of sentiment goes a long way on light trading days,'' she said.
 A barrel of light crude oil rose $1.84, to settle at $95.97 on the New York Mercantile Exchange after rising to a one-month high of $96.54 during the session.
 The Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index declined 6.7 percent, the steepest monthly decline since early 1991.
 Among chain stores, Target fell $1.31, to $51.16, after it said that same-store sales -- sales from stores open at least a year -- would range from a 1 percent increase to a 1 percent decrease for the five weeks through Jan. 5. Earlier expectations had called for a gain of 3 to 5 percent.
 Apple traded above $200 for the first time Wednesday as investors appeared upbeat about the company's prospects to continue brisk sales of its iPods and computers. The stock rose 15 cents to close at $198.95, after trading as high as $200.96.
 Acquisition news may have reassured some investors. Berkshire Hathaway, Warren E. Buffett's company, agreed on Tuesday to pay $4.5 billion to buy 60 percent of Marmon Holdings, a privately held company with more than 125 manufacturing and service businesses.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 16/32, to 99 25/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 4.27 percent late Wednesday, from 4.21 percent on Monday. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of two-year notes and four-week bills:

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) ''Two-Year Treasury Notes'' High yields in percent. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); RETAIL SALES (92%); RETAILERS (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); EQUITY RESEARCH (65%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007



618 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Las Vegas Wins Big

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

 BODY:
The sparkling gambling palaces that line the Las Vegas Strip are intended to disconnect visitors from the realities of ordinary life.
 But nowadays Las Vegas is even managing to sever itself from a jittery economy causing conniptions among retailers, restaurateurs and other consumer-oriented businesses -- including the rest of the casino industry.
 Gambling revenues on the Strip are up this year -- way up in recent weeks. Despite higher energy prices, a volatile stock market, a slumping housing market and fears the economy may be heading into a recession, some of the city's largest casinos are on pace for a record-setting year. In October alone, gambling revenues on the Las Vegas Strip were up 19.8 percent over the same month last year.
 By contrast, casinos elsewhere are not proving so resilient. From the riverboats of the Midwest and tribal casinos scattered across the country to gambling halls in less exotic parts of Nevada, operators are reporting slowing growth rates in recent months. In a number of places, revenues are actually down, sometimes by 5 percent or more. 
 The differences reflect a wider disparity within the economy. Businesses in a variety of sectors that attract the most affluent customers and take advantage of foreigners from countries with strong currencies who are drawn to the glitter of Las Vegas and Manhattan are doing very well, while those dependent largely on middle-class buyers are having a harder time.
 In Las Vegas, one extra factor has been a booming Chinese economy, as wealthy Asian players are risking -- and losing -- money in record numbers inside the city's most exclusive V.I.P. lounges. 
 And the whole industry enjoys one advantage over its counterparts among discretionary spending activities: the propensity of people to gamble despite harder times, or perhaps because of them. But even there, Las Vegas appears to be the big winner, perhaps because many gamblers prefer an occasional big splurge in the city where ''what happens here, stays here,'' to a routine evening of playing the slots.
 ''We're seeing slowing growth in many markets across the country,'' said Joseph R. Greff, a gambling industry analyst for Bear Stearns. ''But I'd still say gaming is in far better shape than retail, restaurants or other discretionary consumer spending areas.''
 Some of the softening can be attributed to factors beyond anxiety over Wall Street gyrations, a precarious housing market and the like. Gambling revenues in Atlantic City have fallen more than 5 percent through the first 11 months of the year; the fall has been even steeper in the most recent months. That decline, though, can be attributed largely to increased competition from the slot parlors that have opened in eastern Pennsylvania and New York over the last year. 
 Across the country casino operators point to consumer worries, along with higher gas prices, as factors explaining a drop-off in revenues. 
 The two major Indian casinos in eastern Connecticut, for instance, the Mohegan Sun and Foxwoods, were both down in slot-machine play for October and November. Slot revenues at Mohegan were down 3 percent during those months and fell 7 percent at Foxwoods. 
 ''What we're seeing is with consumer confidence down and people feeling not so good about their own net worth, people are spending less,'' said Mitchell Etess, chief executive of the Mohegan Tribal Gaming Authority. ''Declines are somewhat unprecedented for us.''
 In the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, where the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians operate five small casinos, revenues have mirrored the price of gas: when prices have risen, profits have fallen, Michelle Bouschor, a spokeswoman, said. 
 ''Gasoline prices are having an impact on a lot of the drive-to markets, especially in the more remote areas,'' said Bill Eadington, director of the Institute for the Study of Gambling and Commercial Gaming at the University of Nevada, Reno. 
 But even some commercial casinos on the edge of urban area are feeling the pinch. Admissions were down at the St. Louis area's three Missouri casinos in November, for instance, when compared with the same month last year, as were revenues. 
 ''Instead of the steady growth we've been used to seeing, you're seeing a lot of choppiness,'' said Adam Steinberg, a gambling analyst with Morgan Joseph, an investment banking firm. ''One month revenues will be up, the next they're down.''
 That is prompting casino companies to pay more attention to the broader economy. 
 ''We're closely watching consumer confidence,'' said Pauline Yoshihashi, a spokeswoman for Pinnacle Entertainment. She described the performance of Pinnacle's six casinos, all of which are located outside Las Vegas, as a ''really mixed bag.'' 
 Keith Foley, who follows the gambling industry for Moody's, says that the unusual declines at some casinos are ''definitely something for us to keep an eye on.'' But he cautions that ''so far we've only got a couple of months worth of data to look at.''
 And then there is Las Vegas, which just goes to show how much it continues to defy its prophets of doom. 
 ''Our numbers are up, up, up,'' said William P. Weidner, the president of Las Vegas Sands, the parent company of the Venetian. With 4,000 rooms, the Venetian ranks as the one of the world's largest hotels, yet it has been operating at an occupancy rate of 98.6 percent, he said.
 The Venetian is set to add 3,200 suites in mid-January, with the formal opening of its Palazzo tower. Despite the big expansion, Mr. Weidner is confident his property will continue to operate at or near capacity. 
 ''Much of our gambling revenues are driven by very high-end foreigners, especially out of Asia,'' Mr. Weidner said. ''And the Asian economy has not really been affected by the fallout from subprime mortgages. We're doing a lot of outreach to areas around the world that are economically healthy.'' 
 That trend is most evident at the baccarat tables at the Venetian and other large properties in Las Vegas. Baccarat, the preferred game among many Asian players, produced four times more revenues for Strip casinos in October than in the same month last year, and it now competes with blackjack as the top table game. 
 International tourism is also crucial to the MGM's success, said James J. Murren, the president of the MGM Mirage, which operates 10 large properties on the Strip, including the Bellagio. 
 ''We feel the impact of a stressed consumer and concerns over everything from housing to oil to discretionary income falling,'' Mr. Murren said. ''On the other hand, we're able to take advantage of a weak dollar. America is on sale, and so international tourism is up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William P. Weidner, the president of Las Vegas Sands.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MCCARTEN/REUTERS)
Foxwoods Casino in Connecticut reported that slot-machine play was down in October and November. Slot revenue fell 7 percent at Foxwoods during those months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 An MGM Mirage project, CityCenter, under way last September in Las Vegas. The company operates 10 properties on the Strip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C4) DRAWING GRAPH: ''Success on the Strip'' Graph shows the change in Las Vegas gambling revenue from 2006. (Source: Nevada Gaming Commission)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (91%); CASINOS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RECESSION (77%); RETAILERS (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%); MIDWEST USA (56%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007



619 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Tighter Lending but Not a Squeeze

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY; Victoria Burnett in Madrid, James Kanter in Paris and Julia Werdigier in London contributed reporting.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
Ralf Friedrichs's business in shipping finance has hit a rough patch.
 Mr. Friedrichs, a managing director at HCI Capital, based in Hamburg, sets up funds that allow small investors to buy shares in the gigantic container ships that carry goods between Europe and Asia.
 For every euro that an investor brought to the table, Mr. Friedrichs landed two in bank financing, enabling his fund to raise the millions needed for each ship. But these days, his bankers are more focused on navigating the global credit crisis than on financing new container ships. 
 ''This market has stagnated or ground to a halt entirely,'' Mr. Friedrichs said. ''The hope is that financing will come back, but new deals of the sort we did earlier this year are unimaginable right now.''
 Mr. Friedrichs's situation is typical of the plight of European businesses that rely on heavy lending but not typical -- for now at least -- of the European economy as a whole. 
 Over all, an outright credit squeeze, broadly defined as a situation in which even solid borrowers cannot obtain cash, has not arrived in Europe, according to business leaders, economists and central bankers.
 That contrasts with the situation in the United States, where figures collected by the Federal Reserve have shown an abrupt contraction of credit since August.
 But European confidence has its limits, especially since an end to turbulence in the credit markets is not yet in sight. 
 As in the United States, interest rates for short-term lending among banks in Europe have remained elevated as banks have hoarded liquidity and gobbled up new infusions from central banks. Borrowing costs in euros eased last week after huge central bank cash injections, but they remain far higher than normal, and at some point banks will have to pass the borrowing costs on to corporate customers.
 ''If this does not change in the next few weeks,'' said Jochen Felsenheimer, head of credit strategy at UniCredit in Munich, ''then the credit market will leave much deeper footprints in the real economy than it has so far.''
 The European Central Bank's most recent lending survey of the 13-nation euro area, conducted in late September, showed tighter lending standards for corporate borrowers and home buyers, but easier credit for consumers. That result reflected a global effort by banks to ferret out losses linked to securities backed by shaky United States mortgages and to build up a buffer of liquidity to protect themselves in uncertain times.
 But since then, despite tumultuous conditions recently in very short-term, interbank lending -- known as the money market -- banks in the euro zone have continued to lend at the pace that prevailed before the crisis erupted in early August, central bank officials said. 
 ''Neither price nor quantity of credit extended in the euro area has changed much,'' Lucas D. Papademos, vice president of the central bank, said this month. ''Up till this point, the spillover effects from money markets to credit markets have been very modest.''
 British lenders have also reduced corporate credit availability over the three months through September and said they expected recent market developments to reduce significantly their capacity to extend corporate credit for the rest of the year, according to the latest figures from the Bank of England.
 Still, only about 35 percent of companies expect less credit will be available in the coming months, according to a survey by GfK and the Confederation of British Industry.
 Close to Americans in their free-spending spirit, British consumers have perhaps felt the most direct pain. 
 Credit card companies have started to reject more applications because they are increasingly worried about consumers who use credit cards to pay off other debts, like mortgages. Rejections increased 17 percent in the six months through September from the six months through March, according to the financial comparison Web site MoneyExpert.com.
 ''There's a lot more scrutiny from banks,'' said Neil Munroe, external affairs director for Equifax, which tracks consumer creditworthiness. ''Minor misdemeanors, such as missing one payment in your mobile phone bill or credit card,'' he said, ''are now more critical when applying for a mortgage.''
 The leaders in London finance are feeling squeezed as well. 
 Fund-raising for leveraged buyouts has slowed to $41 billion this year, from $112 billion last year, according to the European Venture Capital Association. About 100 billion euros, or $144 billion, in buyout loans is still on bank balance sheets waiting for syndication, figures from the European High Yield Association showed.
 Some companies recently abandoned private equity bidders in favor of initial public offerings. Among them were Hamburger Hafen und Logistik, a German port operator, and Pronova BioPharma, a Norwegian pharmaceutical company.
 Traces of turmoil in credit markets are not hard to find in Spanish real estate.
 Colonial, a large Spanish property developer, said recently that it was in talks to merge with Gecina, the French property arm of Colonial's Spanish rival, Metrovacesa, a deal that could produce one of the biggest property groups in Europe. Colonial's debt of nearly 9 billion euros ($13 billion), equivalent to 66 percent of net assets, makes the company one of the sector's most highly leveraged, and the merger would help it reduce its debt-to-asset ratio and tap new financing.
 That money will come only from banks that are imposing much tougher conditions than in years past.
 So-called covenant-lite contracts, in which creditors give up certain rights but impose conditions on a borrower's balance sheet, are harder to come by, while banks are slowly forcing down leverage ratios. With an eye to possible defaults, they are also reluctant to lend against small slices of land that would be harder to liquidate than bigger tracts.
 ''The real estate sector has been hardest hit here by the credit crunch,'' said Robert Tornabell, a professor of finance at the Esade business school in Barcelona, Spain. ''Companies are having to refinance short-term debt and finding that it is extremely expensive to do so.''
 Some Spanish banks have 60 percent of their loan portfolios tied up in real estate, but Spanish finance experts said they did not expect a crisis similar to that in the United States. 
 The Banco de Espana said in a November report on financial stability that the banking sector had laid in enough capital to ride out the subprime storm.
 Distress in areas like real estate has led banks to deploy their best sales pitches for the clients that are the best credit risks. Jurgen Fitschen, Deutsche Bank's senior executive in Germany, told makers of machine tools in September that banks would stand by these world-class exporters, which form the backbone of Germany's fabled Mittelstand, or small and medium-size companies. 
 Since then, many such companies, usually family owned, have had banks chasing their business, keenly aware that with full order books for the year ahead, they are among the best risks around.
 ''I don't have the impression that we can speak of a credit crunch,'' said Josef Trischler, director for financial issues at VDMA, the machine tool makers' trade association. ''That would mean there is just no money out there, and that is not the case.''
 But owners of small businesses that lack the track record of the experienced entrepreneurs of Germany are not so lucky.
 Aurelie Giraud, the director and founder of Jironimo.com, a site that allows companies and computer experts to exchange services, said the credit crisis was stiffening the reluctance of French banks to lend money for online projects.
 Ms. Giraud, who started her business in 2005, said that she needed financing to develop client databases and to generate publicity, but that banks preferred to lend to more traditional businesses. So she is sounding out sources other than banks, like ''business angels'' with venture capital and state subsidy funds.
 ''I see a lot of my peers struggling to get credit from banks these days,'' Ms. Giraud said. ''I've decided that I just don't see banks as partners anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lucas Papademos of the European Central Bank saw little change in euro-area credit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN LEISSL/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Hamburger Hafen und Logistik, which runs port operations in Hamburg, turned to an public offering rather than private bidders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAI-UWE KNOTH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); EURO (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); HCI CAPITAL AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007



620 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: An Iranian In India, Encouraging Dialogue

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
''I've lived here on and off for two years, with imprisonment in between.''
 Ramin Jahanbegloo, an Iranian philosopher, described his Indian sojourn this way, and even as he agreed to an interview this month on condition that he not be asked to talk about his home country, which imprisoned him last year, it kept creeping into the conversation, quite uninvited, like a gnome.
 In Iran Mr. Jahanbegloo, 50, was accused of collaborating with Americans to destabilize the state, kept in solitary confinement for four months and released on bail.
 Out of jail, but with the charges still pending, he returned here to finish his latest book, ''India Revisited: Conversations on Contemporary India,'' a collection of 27 interviews with 27 remarkable Indians that the Indian arm of Oxford University Press has just published. The book is ostensibly about Indian subjects -- dance, caste, Parsis, democracy -- but it inexorably engages many of the issues that vex Mr. Jahanbegloo's homeland, including tradition, pluralism, the West and freedom. 
 Born in Tehran, Mr. Jahanbegloo discovered India in childhood. His father was an economist, his mother a playwright. The Indian ambassador in Tehran was a guest at family dinner parties when Mr. Jahanbegloo was young, and the library in his home contained the works of Rabindranath Tagore and Jawaharlal Nehru; both had visited Iran.
 Mr. Jahanbegloo said that he liked to think of himself as an Indian, without the citizenship, but with what he calls an Indian's ''metaphysical view of the world.'' One would be hard-pressed to find a more eloquent promoter of the idea of India.
 ''India is a country where you find a dialogue of cultures in a very deep sense of the term,'' Mr. Jahanbegloo said. ''I try to understand this spirit. I try to follow this spirit. Even if you find a lot of tension, riots, killings, that spirit itself brings India back.''
 Mr. Jahanbegloo's intellectual home in India, the Center for the Study of Developing Societies, where he has had a faculty appointment for the last two years, is also home to a number of other iconoclasts, like Ashis Nandy, a political psychologist, who likewise appears in the new book. Mr. Nandy explains where Gandhi sits in Indian consciousness. D. L. Sheth, another scholar at the center, discusses the shifting meanings of caste. A filmmaker from Calcutta, Mrinal Sen, occasionally reprimands Mr. Jahanbegloo for not properly understanding his oeuvre.
 Kapila Vatsyayan, a cultural historian, offers an elegantly simple explanation of India's survival. ''India has so far demonstrated the capacity to hold together two lifelines, one an original, primal, or indigenous, almost immutable line, and the other of 'change,''' she tells Mr. Jahanbegloo. ''No single unit or dimension is totally 'insular' or 'static.'''
 Mr. Jahanbegloo finds this an especially trenchant lesson for Middle Eastern countries, which he says have not been able to accommodate a dialogue of cultures. Instead, he says, they have suffered either a modernization from above, as in the case of Iran under the Shah, or a virulent assertion of fundamentalism from below, as with the Taliban of Afghanistan.
 ''Iranians, like Arabs, have not been able to digest modernity because they did not find a way to create a permanent dialogue between the two concepts,'' he said. ''It's either created authoritarian modernity or authoritarian traditionalism.''
 Mr. Jahanbegloo credits Indian thinkers for their ''soft reading of modernity, not a violent reaction to it.'' Missing from his glowing appraisal is sufficient explanation for the violence that persists in Indian life, whether in the guise of Maoist insurgents or Hindu radicals or home-grown Islamist terrorist groups. 
 ''This is what I think is so important to people of the Middle East, particularly Turks, Iranians and Arabs,'' he said. ''They want to keep their own identity. They want to be proud of their past. But it's very important to open up to other cultures. Democracy is a result of this. Democracy is a government of dialogue.''
 Mr. Jahanbegloo studied philosophy at the Sorbonne in Paris, and stayed on in France for 20 years. Among his first books were works on the 19th-century German philosophers Arthur Schopenhauer and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. His inquiries were very much European, from the making of the modern European state to the idea of revolution. And he was very much engaged with what he called ''philosophies of violence.''
 As Mr. Jahanbegloo recalls it now, the violence of the 1979 Iranian revolution kindled his interest in nonviolent ways of making change, though it was not until the early 1990s, when he returned home to Tehran, that his mind returned to the philosophers of nonviolence. In 1998 he wrote a book on Gandhi; in 1999 a book on nonviolence. He invited thinkers from across the world, from Richard Rorty to the writer V. S. Naipaul, to his independent institution, the Cultural Research Bureau, in Tehran. He also published a scholarly journal called Goftegu, or Dialogue.
 As it happened, dialogue landed him in prison. In April 2006, while he was on his way to a conference in Belgium, he was arrested at the Tehran airport and sent to the notorious Evin prison; he had recently returned home from Delhi for a vacation. At the time the Iranian information minister was quoted as saying Mr. Jahanbegloo had had ''contacts with foreigners.'' He was released after confessing that foreign agents might have exploited his expertise. Mr. Jahanbegloo says he told Iranian authorities that he had attended conferences with plenty of foreigners but never with an ''antistate agenda'' and never to divulge anything to foreign intelligence officials. 
 ''There were no names I could give,'' he said in the interview here. ''I could give only names of philosophers. There was no way I could reveal any secrets. There were no secrets.''
 Other scholars, including two Iranian-Americans, Haleh Esfandiari, the director of the Middle East program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, and Kian Tajbakhsh, an urban planner with ties to the Open Society Institute, were arrested in May on similarly vague accusations of plotting a foreign-sponsored ''velvet revolution.''
 All three appeared on Iran's state-run television in July, making statements that could have been interpreted to suggest that they had tried to overthrow the Iranian government. Mr. Jahanbegloo's televised statement, recorded during his detention in 2006, included the admission that on trips outside Iran he had become acquainted with Americans and Israelis, many of whom, he said on television, were ''intelligence figures.''
 Ms. Esfandiari and Mr. Tajbakhsh were released in September. 
 In prison, as a way to get his mind out of his cell, Mr. Jahanbegloo wrote as many as 2,000 aphorisms on the backs of tissue boxes. They will be published soon in Iran in a collection called ''A Mind in Winter,'' a title that he described as ''a metaphor for being alone, hibernating also.'' 
 Next he plans to return to a book he began, but didn't finish, on Iran and modernity. By early next month Mr. Jahanbegloo, who also holds Canadian citizenship, will move to Toronto with his wife and daughter and join the faculty at the University of Toronto. 
 David Malone, the Canadian high commissioner here, credits Mr. Jahanbegloo in ''India Revisited'' for compelling so many Indian scholars ''to speak in short, clear, largely jargon-free sentences,'' as he wrote in an e-mail message. 
 ''It allows the lay reader to access how thoughtful Indians (and there are so many!) struggle with notions of democracy, multiculturalism, the caste system and the situation of minorities, religious and otherwise, all important issues in India, most of which are mirrored in the West,'' he wrote.
 For Mr. Jahanbegloo, more than 16 months after his release, the nightmares have begun to dissipate. ''Breathing the Indian air brings me health, at least mental health,'' he said wryly. ''Sometimes I get really mad at the corruption, the Delhi traffic, how people drive, honking all the time. But the absence of nervousness and psychological violence gives you a peaceful life. In many other countries, like America and Iran, people are very nervous, psychologically very nervous.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ramin Jahanbegloo, an Iranian philosopher, in New Delhi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); PRISONS (78%); WRITERS (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); HISTORY (72%); BAIL (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (73%); KOLKATA, INDIA (58%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007



621 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Judge Hands I.R.S. Victory In Tax Shelter

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
A civil court has ruled that a popular tax-avoidance scheme known as Son of Boss was abusive and any deductions claimed for it were invalid, an important victory for the Internal Revenue Service in its battle against questionable tax shelters sold to wealthy individuals. 
 The decision, by the United States Court of Federal Claims, covers one of the most widely used aggressive tax shelters of the late 1990s through recent years. 
 The ruling, issued on Friday and discussed by an I.R.S. spokesman for the first time Wednesday, also could have significance for Deutsche Bank, the German bank that is under criminal investigation by Manhattan federal prosecutors over its work with questionable tax shelters that the I.R.S. considers similar to Son of Boss. 
 Deutsche Bank officials could not be reached immediately last night for comment. 
 The ruling, in a case that was closely watched by tax specialists, concerned an entity known as Jade Trading, which sued the I.R.S in the Court of Federal Claims in 2003 for a refund after the agency ruled its claims for tax deductions invalid.
 Jade Trading was a partnership controlled by Robert W. Ervin of Sturgis, Ky., and was used by him and his brothers in 1999 to help offset income taxes due on $40 million in profit from the sale of their cable television business. 
 The Ervin brothers paid fees to the American International Group and to Sentinel Advisors, an investment firm, among others, for a Son of Boss shelter that they then used to generate around $40 million in artificial tax losses.
 The 75-page ruling, by Judge Mary Ellen Coster Williams, also said that a key part of the transaction ''was devised and marketed by a tax accounting group, BDO Seidman's 'Tax Sells' Division, as a tax product, not by an investment adviser as a vehicle to earn profit.''
 Son of Boss, which the I.R.S. formally disallowed in 2000 and has never considered valid for deductions, involves creating artificial losses that are then used improperly to offset legitimate gains. The scheme is based on an older shelter, bond and options sales strategy, or Boss.
 Mr. Ervin and his partners had tried to claim that they had made $450,000 in investments that had generated $40 million in losses. 
 Judge Williams's ruling said that the losses claimed by Mr. Ervin and his partners were ''purely fictional.'' 
 She further wrote that the transaction's ''fictional loss, inability to realize a profit, lack of investment character, meaningless inclusion in a partnership and disproportionate tax advantage as compared to the amount invested and potential return, compel a conclusion that the spread transaction objectively lacked economic substance.''
 One definition of an abusive tax shelter is a tax-motivated transaction that lacks economic substance.
 By 2005, the I.R.S. had persuaded more than 1,200 people who bought Son of Boss tax shelters to come forward and pay $3.7 billion in taxes owed or risk being prosecuted by the government. The government can be expected to use the ruling in this case to pressure additional taxpayers to settle.
 Tax shelters similar to Son of Boss are at the center of the government's criminal case against former employees of the accounting firm KPMG. That case, which federal prosecutors once billed as the largest tax fraud case in history, has faltered since the judge dismissed charges against 13 defendants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); JUDGES (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SALES PLAN (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (69%); COMPANY STRATEGY (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (55%); ACCOUNTING (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007



622 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-16
 Migrants to Poor Nations From Even Poorer Ones
 Haitians risking their lives to move to the Dominican Republic are part of a global trend of some 74 million migrants across the developing world who move to poor countries from even poorer ones. Their numbers and hardships are often overlooked. A1 Malnutrition Rising in Darfur
 Child malnutrition rates have increased sharply in Darfur, even though it is home to the world's largest aid operation, according to a United Nations report. A12 2 Accept Afghan Expulsion 
 Two senior political officers working for the European Union and the United Nations aid mission in Afghanistan will leave as ordered by the Afghan government after talks failed to resolve a dispute over whether they had met with the Taliban. A3 Sentence for Workers in Chad
 Six French aid workers were sentenced in Chad to eight years of hard labor for trying to take to Europe 103 children who they claimed were orphaned in the conflict in Darfur. A10 
 More Strikes on Kurd Rebels
 Turkish warplanes attacked Kurdish rebel camps in northern Iraq, the Turkish military said, acknowledging its second cross-border airstrike this week. A14 
 Blast Kills 4 Iraqi Volunteers
 Four members of a local neighborhood watch group in Diyala Province were killed when a house they were raiding exploded, the police said. A14 
 Manhunt for Gunmen in Africa
 Law enforcement officials in Mali, Mauritania and Senegal are searching for three men linked to a North African affiliate of Al Qaeda and suspected of killing four French tourists. A10 
 Thai Party Forms Coalition
 The winning party in Thailand's general election said it had agreed with coalition partners to form a government but would wait until official election results were released before giving details. A18 
 NATIONALA18-25 
 A Look at the McCains, A Close 7-Child Brood
 Among the Republican candidates, Senator John McCain of Arizona has the greatest number of children, who span four decades, numerous states and a broad swath of the political spectrum. But they are largely absent in a primary battle in which families are central ornaments. A1 
 After a lull for Christmas, the Democratic and Republican presidential campaigns roared back to life with a barrage of new advertisements, closing campaign arguments and more than a few attacks as they girded for the eight days leading up to the first vote of 2008 in Iowa. A27 
 Changes Allowed for Retirees
 The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission said that employers could reduce or eliminate health benefits for retirees when they turned 65 and could obtain Medicare. A1 
 States' Expansion Slows
 The bursting housing bubble squelched expansion in some of the nation's fastest-growing states in the fiscal year that ended July 1, according to an analysis of census figures. A20
 Inquiry on Tiger Escaping Zoo
 Now considered a crime scene, the San Francisco Zoo was closed to visitors as police investigators swept the grounds searching for evidence to explain how a Siberian tiger escaped its open-air grotto, killing one young man and seriously injuring two others. A20 
 Six Killed Near Seattle
 Six people were found shot to death at a home in a rural part of King County, east of Seattle, and investigators have arrested two people they say are responsible for the killings, law enforcement officials said. The victims include two children. A24 
 Washington Needle Exchange
 President Bush signed legislation on lifting a ban that for nearly a decade has prevented Washington officials from using local tax money for needle exchange programs. A24 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-6
 New Police Policy Puts Recruits on Tough Beats
 Each of the 914 New York City police recruits being sworn in this year will be sent onto the streets of some of the city's toughest neighborhoods as part of a broad anti-crime operation that the authorities say has helped produce historic drops in crime, city officials announced.A1 
 Mayoral Investments
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, seeking to bolster his charitable giving, has reached a new agreement with the New York City Conflicts of Interest Board that will allow him to move his money into more aggressive investments.B1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-10 
 An Instant Payoff Habit
 With the popularity of traditional lotteries waning, many states are turning to instant payoff tickets and increasing their values to maintain revenue. Yet critics worry that scratch-off tickets may become to the lottery what crack is to cocaine. A1 
 Despite higher energy prices, a volatile stock market, a slumping housing market and fears of coming recession, Las Vegas gambling revenue is way up this year. By contrast, casino revenue elsewhere is down, sometimes by 5 percent or more. C1 
 A Tale of Retail Woes
 As the nation's merchants began poring -- or weeping -- over holiday sales receipts, a surprising pattern emerged: even brands that have inspired the undying devotion of shoppers felt the pinch of tightening wallets. A1 
 Apple's Retail Formula
 Apple stock, which briefly reached a record high of $200 a share, now derives 20 percent of its revenue from its stores, and the proportion is growing. That is leaving other electronics makers, like Dell, Nokia and Sony, struggling to find the right retail formula. C1 
 Business DigestC2 
 SPORTSTHURSDAYD1-6
 A Dangerous Road Rally
 With 49 deaths in 29 years, the annual Dakar Rally off-road race has been condemned by the Vatican newspaper as ''the bloody race of irresponsibility.'' But each year, Ronn H. Bailey is drawn to the race, which will cover more than 5,700 miles, over the west coast of Africa. D6
 ARTSE1-14
 Grooming a Teenage Auteur
 To a degree that would make any adult desperate to get into the film industry jealous, Malcolm Mays has mustered the support of studio executives, a powerful producer and a top talent agent. They all say they hope to get as much out of Mr. Mays as he gets out of them. E1
 EDITORIALA26-27
 Editorials: State without pity; fuel for Bushehr; protection for endangered whistle-blowers; throwing the book at them.
 Column: Roger Cohen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRENDS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MALNUTRITION (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (76%); HOME SECURITY (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); FAMILY (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); TALIBAN (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); MEDICARE (75%); BOMBINGS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CENSUS (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); AL-QAEDA (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); SENTENCING (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (67%); WILD CATS (66%); CRIME PREVENTION (65%); CHRISTMAS (64%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (63%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (60%); HOUSING BUBBLE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); AL-QAEDA (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) SUDAN (94%); HAITI (92%); TURKEY (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); CHAD (92%); MALI (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SENEGAL (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); THAILAND (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007



623 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Fastest-Growing States Show Slower Expansion

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Steve Friess contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The bursting housing bubble squelched expansion in some of the nation's fastest-growing states in the year that ended July 1, according to an analysis of census figures released Wednesday. 
 Nevada regained the title of fastest growing, from Arizona, but both states expanded more slowly than they did the year before. Nevada's annual growth, like Florida's, was its lowest since the decade began.
 Wyoming bumped Florida from the list of the top 10 fastest-growing states. Only 35,000 Americans moved to Florida from elsewhere in the United States, compared with nearly five times as many the year before. 
 Michigan and Rhode Island registered their second consecutive annual losses in population. But Louisiana -- which declined by more than 250,000 in the year that ended July 1, 2006, in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina -- recorded a gain of nearly 50,000 in the latest year.
 The statewide population shifts hint at further realignment in Congressional districts after the 2010 census. 
 If nearly decade-long trends endure, Texas will gain as many as four Congressional seats and Florida's delegation will grow by two, while New York and Ohio will lose two seats each, said Andrew A. Beveridge of Queens College of the City University of New York.
 ''Seventy percent of the decade has passed,'' Dr. Beveridge said, ''and there would have to be massive reversal of population trends for this not to happen.''
 California's 53-seat delegation will remain the largest. But for the first time in its history, it may not grow after Congressional reapportionment. 
 ''That's right in line with what we've seen for the entire decade,'' Tim Storey, redistricting analyst for the National Conference of State Legislatures, said of Dr. Beveridge's reapportionment analysis. ''There's going to be a shift of more seats to the Sun Belt and to the West.''
 Still, that shift appears to have been tamped down by the subprime mortgage crisis. Nevada, Florida and California have posted among the highest foreclosure rates in the country.
 The outflow of residents from high-cost states like California, New York, New Jersey and Massachusetts to more affordable states slowed last year. 
 ''The higher cost of housing in southern Nevada has created a disincentive to relocate there,'' said Jeremy Aguero of Applied Analysis, an economic consulting firm in Las Vegas, ''although more than 33 percent of the people who relocate to southern Nevada come from California, where housing prices are even higher.''
 Nevada's state demographer, Jeff Hardcastle, said the decline in growth there might reflect the fact that no major new hotel-casinos had opened in Las Vegas.
 ''The population growth in Nevada is entirely driven by job growth,'' Mr. Hardcastle said. ''When you open up one of those hotels, it represents roughly 1.5 new jobs per room directly and one job indirectly.''
 The slower housing construction market may have lowered numbers a bit, Mr. Hardcastle added, but that weakness may have been offset by jobs created by casino-hotel construction projects currently under way.
 Nevada's growth rate, 2.9 percent, was the greatest of any state -- a record it has held for almost all of the past two decades. Arizona, Georgia, Idaho, North Carolina, Texas and Utah also each grew 2 percent or more. 
 More Californians -- 263,000 -- left their state than did residents of any other state. Texas attracted the most newcomers -- 141,000 -- from elsewhere in the United States. Texas also drew 109,000 new foreign residents, third behind California and New York. 
 Texas grew by nearly 500,000 people. Nevada gained about 73,000.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: A SLOWER GROWTH: While Nevada and Arizona remained the nation's fastest-growing states this year, Nevada's growth rate was the lowest in seven years, and Arizona's fell below Nevada's. (Sources: Census Bureau
 William H. Frey, Brookings Institution) Graph showing that faster-growing states really means slower growth rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); TRENDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); FORECLOSURE (61%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%) NEVADA, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (96%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007



624 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 797 words

 BODY:
FAVORED BRANDS AFFECTED Disappointing results for holiday retailers have begun to be seen even in those brands that for years have inspired the undying devotion of shoppers. Chains like Coach, Target, Starbucks and Abercrombie & Fitch are settling for ho-hum growth this winter. 
 SCRATCH-OFF GAMES GO BIG Many state lotteries are turning to high-priced instant games -- including a $50 scratch-off game -- to lure new players and raise revenue. Critics say the instant games take particular advantage of the poor and members of minority groups. [A1.] 
 In Las Vegas, gambling revenue on the Strip is up this year, despite higher energy prices and recession fears. But casinos in other parts of the country are reporting slowing growth or declines. [C1.] 
 I.R.S. WINS TAX-SHELTER RULING The Internal Revenue Service has won an important victory in its battle against questionable tax shelters sold to wealthy individuals, through a civil court ruling that a notorious tax-avoidance scheme known as Son of Boss was abusive and invalid for deductions. [C1.]
 APPLE, OVER THE COUNTER The popularity of Apple's iPhone and iPod has helped push the company's stock up nearly 135 percent for the year, but the real bonus for the company has been its success in retailing, through its 204 Apple stores. [C6.] 
 WHERE SMOKING IS ENCOURAGED As a nationwide ban on smoking in public areas begins in France, Altadis, the European tobacco giant, has produced an online site for smokers that is part social networking site, part data resource and part virtual pep rally. [C1.] 
 FASTER DECLINE IN HOME PRICES The decline in home prices accelerated in October to 6.1 percent, and spread to more regions of the country, according to new data. [C1.] 
 HEALTH LEEWAY FOR EMPLOYERS Employers can reduce or eliminate health benefits for retirees when they turn 65 and can obtain Medicare, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission said. [A1.] 
 SALLIE MAE TO RAISE CAPITAL Sallie Mae, the troubled student loan giant, said that it would raise $2.5 billion by selling stock and would use most of the money to pay off a disastrous bet that the company made on its common stock price. [C5.] 
 A PAPER TRAIL GOES DIGITAL The historical record of the United States government will soon be more accessible. A partnership including the Boston Public Library will make digital copies of the library's government documents collection, which will then be available on the Internet. [C3.] 
 FROM A POOR LAND TO ANOTHER Millions of migrants move to poor countries from even poorer ones. They earn less than migrants to rich countries, and are more likely to travel illegally, but their earnings help sustain some of the poorest people on the globe. [A1.] 
 BETTER LIFE FROM CHEAP GOODS Inexpensive Chinese products are flooding China's southern neighbors like Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam. Items like cheap motorcycles that can help bring produce to markets are transforming the lives of Asia's poor. [A4.] 
 SIGNS OF TIGHTER CREDIT Some European businesses that rely on heavy lending are beginning to feel the pinch of a credit squeeze. [C2.] 
 2 CHINESE AUTOMAKERS IN DEAL Two of China's biggest automakers -- the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation, known as SAIC, and the Nanjing Automobile Corporation -- will combine their production assets to compete in global markets. [C5.] 
 CHINA TARIFF ON STEEL EXPORTS China, which makes one-third of the world's steel, said that it would introduce export tariffs on some steel products and increase rates on other items to rein in a record trade surplus. [C5.] 
 BROKERAGE FIRM TO SETTLE 
 MF Global, the futures and options brokerage firm, agreed to pay more than $77 million to settle federal charges filed by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission that it had failed to watch over a hedge fund charged with fraud more than two years ago. [C10.] 
 PRINT OUT, DON'T CLIP OUTValassis Communications, which distributes discount coupons through newspaper inserts and the mail, will take a giant leap onto the Internet by introducing a portal for coupons called RedPlum.com. Advertising. [C3.] 
 WALL STREET UNINSPIRED Stocks finished largely flat as investors returned from the Christmas holiday to news of weaker-than-expected retail sales and a jump in oil prices. [C8.] 
 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY DRUG Researchers in the Netherlands -- from universities and a Dutch company, Prosensa -- have developed a drug that may eventually be used to treat children with a severe and fatal type of muscular dystrophy. [A14.] 
 ASSIGN THE BOSS A RESOLUTION If you could assign a new year's resolution to a business leader to improve the lot of the overstressed, less-than-balanced worker, what would that resolution be? Life's Work: Lisa Belkin. [E2.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SMOKING (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); COMMON STOCK (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); SMOKING BANS (73%); TAX FRAUD (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); LITIGATION (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); LIBRARIES (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); SMARTPHONES (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); TOBACCO MFG (64%); EMPLOYMENT (63%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (62%); MEDICARE (62%); HISTORY (61%); STUDENT LOANS (61%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (60%); LOTTERIES (57%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (93%); APPLE INC (68%); ALTADIS SA (54%); SLM CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (93%); AFT (FRA) (93%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (68%); SLM (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (68%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (68%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (68%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (68%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2121 CIGARS (54%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (54%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (78%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007



625 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: In Their Own Words

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, speaking Wednesday in Mount Pleasant, Iowa.
 '' This is the very first day and the first event of what we're calling 'Big Challenges, Real Solutions' -- that's our theme, that's what we believe this election is about. ... 
 It's not going to be easy, this job never is -- it's the hardest job in the world. But it's a job that I believe is going to make such a difference again in the lives of Americans. 
 On Jan. 20, 2009, someone will raise his or her hand to take the oath of office in front of our Capitol. And then that person will go to the Oval Office. And on the desk in the Oval Office will be a stack of problems. Ending the war in Iraq. Trying to figure out how to get the economy working again for middle-class and hard-working Americans. Trying to make good on our hope and goal of providing health insurance to the 47 million without it, and the millions more who have it -- except their insurance company won't give them the help they need when their doctors say they require it. ...
 Picking a president starts in eight days with the caucuses right here in Iowa. You have an awesome responsibility. The entire country, and even the world, will be watching. I want you to ask yourself, who will be the best president? Who, if something happened that none of us can predict now, would be there able to respond and act on behalf of our country immediately? Who can use experience and qualifications and contacts and ideas and plans to get us moving together again? If you will go and stand up for me, I will stand up for you every single day in the White House. ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); POLITICS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); IRAQ WAR (70%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); ROBERT W BEST (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007



626 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: You Must Remember This

BYLINE: By WILLIAM FALK. 
William Falk is the editor in chief of The Week magazine.

 BODY:
IT was a year of miraculous events. President Bush invited Al Gore to the Oval Office for a friendly chat about global warming. France elected a president who likes and admires Americans. Eliot Spitzer discovered the virtue of humility. In mid-rant, Hugo Chavez was finally told to shut up. The cute little Canadian dollar -- the ''loonie'' -- became worth more than a greenback. 
 People rooted for Kevin Federline to get the kids. After electing 43 consecutive white male presidents, Americans seriously considered a woman, a black man and an Italian-American from New York on his third marriage. 
 Amid such strange occurrences, one could be excused for missing news of more subtle -- but lasting -- importance. Here are a few developments you haven't heard the last of:
 HOW DRY WE ARE One of the consequences of global warming for the United States, climatologists warn, will be prolonged droughts. This summer, more than 40 percent of the country found itself in the grip of ''extreme or moderate'' drought. In the Southwest, seven years of rainless skies and warmer temperatures left the Rockies without much snow pack, and created alarming bathtub rings around the Lake Mead and Lake Powell reservoirs. 
 In the Southeast, a drought of a severity not seen in more than a century destroyed crops and turned rivers and lakes to dust in several states; Atlanta's primary source of drinking water, Lake Lanier, fell to a record low, setting off a water war between Florida and Alabama. Things got so bad that Gov. Sonny Perdue of Georgia staged a prayer ceremony. ''God, we need you,'' he beseeched the heavens. ''We do believe in miracles.'' The heavens have yet to respond. 
 NOT-SO-BENIGN NEGLECT After a 40-year-old highway bridge in Minneapolis collapsed on Aug. 1, dropping 50 cars and trucks into the abyss and killing 13 people, the public was surprised to learn that engineers had given 74,000 other bridges in the United States the same rating as the fallen span: ''structurally deficient.'' Engineers and state officials clamored for repairs to these aging bridges, but estimates of the total cost were as high as $188 billion. Representative Jim Oberstar, Democrat of Minnesota, proposed a temporary five-cent gas tax to pay for the repairs, but his legislative colleagues argued that Congress and the states simply had to spend existing highway funds more wisely, instead of wasting them on earmarks for pet projects. Instead, Congress allocated $1 billion to inspect and repair deficient bridges, about $13,500 per bridge. 
 In the same bill that established the bridge fund, Congress voted to spend $7.4 billion on such earmarks as a National First Ladies' Library in Canton, Ohio; a project to improve ''rural domestic preparedness'' in Kentucky; and a high-speed ferry to the remote Matanuska-Susitna Borough in Alaska. 
 GAY PRAIRIE Culture warriors may be fighting over gay marriage, but acceptance of gays and lesbians is growing even in the most conservative states. The gay population of Nebraska jumped 71 percent from 2000 to 2005, according to a new analysis of Census Bureau statistics. In Kansas, the number of people who said they were gay rose 68 percent. In Iowa, the increase was 58 percent. 
 It's not that more people are gay, or that there's been a huge migration of gays from San Francisco and New York to the Farm Belt, demographers say. Gay people are simply ''coming out'' in places where they once hid or fled.
 BUILDING WALLS, NOT BRIDGES As presidential candidates vow ''to secure the border,'' the Department of Homeland Security has already started work on a 700-mile ''wall'' along the 1,952-mile Mexican border. Half of the new wall, extending from Tecate, Calif., to Laredo, Tex., will consist of barriers like 15-foot-high fences made of sheet metal and solid concrete. For about 150 miles in the remote desert, the border will be guarded by a high-tech ''fence'' of cameras, light towers, underground sensors and radar. 
 The biggest opposition so far has come from local ranchers and farmers, who say the fence is cutting off parts of their land and blocking access to the Rio Grande. Homeland Security officials say they'll try to accommodate local concerns, but that national security trumps property rights.
 SPAM, SPAM, SPAM, SPAM Four years ago, Bill Gates of Microsoft predicted that the problem of unsolicited commercial e-mail, or spam, ''will be solved by 2006.'' It wasn't. Spammers, in fact, figured out several ways to evade anti-spam software and other efforts to stop them, and are now sending out close to 200 billion messages a day. About 70 percent of all e-mail is now spam. In weary resignation, the average Internet user spends three minutes a day hitting the delete button on the scores of spam messages that evade the filters. 
 EXPORTING THE CAR CULTURE In the West, ''going green'' may be all the rage, but in China and India, the automobile is being discovered all over again. The two countries each have populations of more than a billion, booming economies and rapidly expanding middle classes, and an unsated appetite for Western goodies -- including cars. In India, Tata Motors is introducing the People's Car, with a sticker price of $2,500. Over the next 12 years, some economists predict, more than 150 million Indians will buy cars. China, meanwhile, may have 140 million cars on its roads by 2020. 
 If this all comes to pass, climate experts say, it will be impossible to make meaningful, worldwide reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. China and India already account for 70 percent of the worldwide increase in energy demand over the last two years. ''This is a very worrying message,'' said Fatih Birol, chief economist for the International Energy Agency, which provides policy advice to industrialized nations. ''China and India are transforming our energy markets. We have a window of opportunity of 5 to 10 years before it becomes unsustainable and irreversible.'' In other words, get used to praying for rain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); DROUGHT (90%); LAKES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); MEN (75%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (67%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (67%); WATER RIGHTS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); AL GORE (73%); ELIOT SPITZER (72%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); JIM OBERSTAR (58%); SONNY PERDUE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2007



627 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Letters: The Drawbacks of Free Trade Pacts

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Trade and Prosperity'' (editorial, Dec. 23), you equate opposition to trade agreements like Nafta with protectionism. While there are protectionists among the opponents of so-called free trade agreements, most opposition is based on the fact that these agreements have little to do with the exchange of goods and much more to do with empowering corporations to override national laws protecting workers and the environment in other countries.
Agreements like Nafta and Cafta extend patents well beyond the provisions set out in United States law, inhibiting the ability of other countries to combat public health crises such as AIDS. These are the reasons that there is such widespread opposition to free trade agreements not just in the United States, but also in countries with which such agreements are promulgated. 
 Tony Avirgan Silver Spring, Md., Dec. 23, 2007 The writer is global policy organizer at the Economic Policy Institute.
 To the Editor:
 We hear it so often it must be true: free trade is good for us all. But your editorial, as almost everyone does, presents us with theory, not facts.
 How can it be good for workers to be subjected to competition from low-wage countries? How can it be good for manufacturers to be subjected to competition from countries that don't ask employers to pay for their employees' health care? How can it be good for any of us to eat food, wear clothes and play with toys that could never pass an American government inspection?
 Is it free trade that's made us so prosperous, or is it our ability, so far, to pay for many of our imports with IOUs? 
 David Raines Lunenburg, Mass., Dec. 23, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial implies that universal health care and education and job training are ''social safety nets.'' A more fitting description in an era of high productivity and economic globalization would be ''rungs on the prosperity ladder.''
 As you have pointed out, workers have not benefited from trade (except maybe as shoppers). But owners and C.E.O.'s have. This should lead to a trade policy everyone could get behind. In exchange for government regulations that encourage the growth in free trade and maintain historically low taxes, big business could pay for universal health care and improved public education and job training.
 No matter which party wins the presidency, having a work force in America that is healthy, educated, rested and happy is good for all.
 James Forbes San Francisco, Dec. 23, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Current trade agreements preclude and sometimes reverse the very safety net you propose to ameliorate their damage, as new Congressional leaders recognize. Trade pacts undermine access to affordable medicines and offer new levers of power to the drug, tobacco, alcohol, health care and processed food industries. These industries dominate United States federal trade advisory committees and influence trade policy to promote the bottom line over health.
 The public, the candidates and The Times are right to call for affordable health care. We also need a new, sustainable trade model that does not destabilize public health benefits where they exist or are emerging among our trading partners. These are the genuine keys to prosperity. 
 Ellen R. Shaffer San Francisco, Dec. 23, 2007 The writer is co-director of the Center for Policy Analysis on Trade and Health.
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial concludes, ''All the Democratic candidates agree that trade agreements should be amended to attach provisions about minimum labor standards. These changes would do virtually nothing to protect American workers from the disruptions wrought by trade, technology and other economic forces. A protectionist agenda would hurt them.''
 Maybe so, but it would certainly help the millions of workers who suffer the effects of exploitive labor conditions. That should count for something. 
 Irving Feiner Nyack, N.Y., Dec. 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); WRITERS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009



628 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. to Comply In Waiver Inquiry

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency signaled Thursday that it was prepared to comply with a Congressional request for all documents, including communications with the White House, concerning its decision to block California from imposing limits on heat-trapping gases. 
 The agency's general counsel directed employees in a memorandum to preserve and produce all documents related to the decision, including any opposing views and communications between senior agency officials and the White House.
 The memorandum was in response to Congressional inquiries, said an agency spokeswoman, Jennifer Wood.
 Last week, the agency administrator, Stephen L. Johnson, rejected California's request to put into effect rules on tailpipe emissions of heat-trapping greenhouses gases like carbon dioxide. As many as 16 states would have been free to do likewise if California had received approval.
 Mr. Johnson said that a new federal automobile fuel economy requirement achieved what California wanted to accomplish.
 The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, both led by Californians, have demanded the documents.
 The memorandum to agency employees was made public by Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); APPROVALS (73%); LAWYERS (56%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007



629 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1834 words

HEADLINE: Pleasure Without Guilt: Green Hotels With Comfort

BYLINE: By GREGORY DICUM

 BODY:
''HEY there's no schwag!'' my wife, Nina, exclaimed from the bathroom of our room at the Gaia Napa Valley Hotel. 
 The Gaia, which advertises itself as ''Napa Valley's first fully environmentally sustainable hotel,'' has eschewed the tiny plastic bottles of lotion, shampoo and conditioner, instead using wall-mounted dispensers. I breathed a sigh of relief that neither the collection in our bathroom at home nor the infamous raft of plastic garbage in the middle of the Pacific, which I imagine to consist largely of hotel amenities, would grow larger from this stay.
 The idea of luxury has long been intertwined with -- even confused with -- profligate waste. But with green consciousness making its way to center stage, some hotels are changing their ways. They face a delicate balance: when does greening go so far as to cut palpably into the feeling of luxury? 
 Conversely, with hotels around the country and the world claiming environmental concern -- even when all they may actually be doing is inviting guests to forgo clean towels -- how can guests be assured that green claims are sincere? 
 There is no single system for evaluating a hotel's environmental friendliness. The best starting point is the so-called LEED certification program (for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) of the United States Green Building Council, a program that evaluates everything from materials to energy use to recycling in the construction and operation of a building. A LEED certificate displayed in the lobby means the establishment is serious about being green. Although only five hotels in the United States have this certification, many in the planning stages are incorporating materials and systems intended to gain it. 
 Beyond that, the best way to ensure that you are at a truly green hotel is to ask questions. When I stayed recently at four hotels that call themselves green, I found that everyone on their staffs, from managers to maids, was well-informed about the green features. 
 ''You can't just send out a memo,'' Stefan Muhle, the general manager of the Orchard Garden in San Francisco, told me when I called him after my stay. ''All the staff have to be included, front to back. Their heart has to be in it.''
 Because I live in California -- the home of much environmental action, hope and hype -- I didn't have to travel far from home to check out green hotels. Not all of them are LEED-certified, but they all featured green design elements, nontoxic materials and cleaning supplies, low-flow showerheads and toilets, and in-room recycling. I never once saw an incandescent light bulb.
 The Ambrose Hotel,
 Santa Monica
 The Ambrose opened in 2003 and began its green conversion the next year.
 ''We were nervous about how guests would react,'' said Deirdre Wallace, the owner. ''But they were relieved. People have been recycling at home for 10 years, so why not in a hotel?''
 In a comfortable Southern California-style marriage of disparate design currents, a cozy Craftsman drawing room opens onto a small garden designed for sustainability, with drought-tolerant native plants maintained with rakes instead of leaf blowers. Arching above are big red feng shui banners. 
 The Ambrose has installed energy-efficient lighting and appliances, economical ventilation equipment and low-flow sprinklers. It has switched to nontoxic cleaning products, paints and sealants, and buys part of its power from sustainable wind projects. It composts and has done away with disposable dishes and cups. Guests can rent bicycles or catch rides to nearby destinations in a biodiesel-powered London-style taxi.
 My one true green-inspired inconvenience took place at the Ambrose. I forgot my toothpaste, and the front desk was out of their preferred eco-friendly brand, so I was forced to go on a midnight stroll to Walgreens.
 Nonetheless, the hotel has greened itself with virtually no change in the experience for guests (who still enjoy Aveda amenities in those bottles destined, in my mind at least, for the nearby Pacific). The rooms, with comforting dark wood accents, long decks outside sliding glass doors and comfortable furniture, are well suited to the business travelers the hotel attracts.
 Ms. Wallace expects LEED certification soon and plans to extend the Ambrose into a green brand by building more LEED-certified hotels. 
 ''There's an emerging green style,'' she said, but added, ''Simply not washing sheets and towels does not cut it.''
 The Ambrose, 1255 20th Street, Santa Monica, Calif.; (310) 315-1555; www.ambrosehotel.com; rates from $229.
 The Orchard Garden,
 San Francisco
 This is the Prius of hotels: distinctly green, but in a way that enhances the user experience beyond mere eco-karma. Among the features that helped the Orchard Garden earn LEED certification when it opened last year were extra layers of insulation that not only reduce heating and cooling costs, but make the hotel -- on a busy downtown street -- blissfully quiet. In our room on the eighth floor, we heard no outside sounds and, even though we were next to the elevators, barely a peep from the hallway.
 The bathroom, which unfortunately contained more of those earth-destroying tiny plastic bottles, is ample. Blond wood furniture in the room matches the palette of soft greens and khakis. A huge mirror expands the space and lets you gaze at yourself luxuriating in the big, just-right bed. 
 The Orchard Garden seems all about cocooning. Its public spaces are little more than utilitarian. The small roof deck offers a chance to hear the city noise you've been missing; the lobby is little more than a corridor; and the restaurant, which features sustainably produced local food, is unremarkable in light of the culinary delights a block in any direction.
 A feature I liked was just inside the room's door: a slot where a guest slips the key card to activate the lights and temperature control. When leaving the room, guests remove the card and everything turns down. It's a system common in Europe and Asia, where energy costs are higher, and it has an additional benefit: I never misplaced my key card.
 Mr. Muhle, the general manager, said the green features had helped the hotel stabilize its occupancy and earn repeat customers faster than the standard of 18 to 24 months from opening. 
 ''We're not just another boutique hotel in San Francisco,'' he said. ''Green had a huge impact on our launch, and that's money in the bank for the owner.''
 Orchard Garden Hotel, 466 Bush Street, San Francisco; (415) 399-9807; www.theorchardgardenhotel.com; rooms from $229.
 Gaia Napa Valley Hotel and Spa, Napa Valley
 It is an indication of how far the concept has come that the greenest hotel I visited was also the closest to that of a mass-market chain. Though Napa vineyards are not far away, the Gaia (pronounced GUY-ah) is a collection of plain-looking beige buildings surrounded by tract housing and big-box stores. Its halls and rooms look almost precisely like those in any other particularly nice hotel in its price range.
 Yet it is one of the greenest buildings in the country. Opened this year, the hotel has earned the LEED gold certification, only the second hotel ever to do so. (The Len Foote Hike Inn, north of Atlanta, was first.) The Gaia's list of green features is inspirational: solar panels, low-emission paints, adhesives and sealants; certified sustainably harvested wood; recycled-content carpets; recycled tiles and stone; low-energy windows; tubular skylights; a chemical-free landscape of native plants.
 The combination of nontoxic materials and eco-friendly cleaning supplies made for noticeably fresh-feeling rooms. Though everything -- the carpets, the curtains, the furniture, the paint -- is obviously new, the air inside the hotel smells like -- air. And there were those nonwasteful toiletry dispensers. 
 But the most impressively green aspects of the hotel are behind the scenes. Guests can get some idea of them from big screens in the lobby that track the hotel's energy, water and carbon dioxide balances. 
 At the center of the Gaia complex is a big pond of recycled water limned with native plants and home to a pair of bemused swans. The night we stayed there, Nina and I sat in the hot tub gazing at the pond and listened to giddy wedding-goers sing along to ''Brick House'' in the banquet room. 
 With road sounds in the distance, an orange glow on the low clouds above us and the wedding music, we could have been anywhere in America. An eco-friendly, nontoxic America, that is.
 Gaia Napa Valley Hotel and Spa, 3600 Broadway Street, American Canyon, Calif.; (888) 798-3777, www.gaianapavalleyhotel.com. From $79.
 Cedar House Sport Hotel, Truckee
 Situated on a pine-and-snow-covered slope in the Sierra Nevada, the Cedar House is an elegant yet cozy assemblage of natural materials, including peeled cedar logs, uncoated and gracefully rusting recycled steel and warm cast concrete. High-tech materials like strandboard, made from sawmill waste, and burgundy-colored Richlite paper composite, and lots of coated insulating glass, lend a lightness to the structure. 
 Part of the roof supports beds of native plants that provide habitat for birds and insects while keeping the building cool in summer. (Firsthand experience with green materials and fixtures is a bonus with these hotels; I, for one, no longer fear low-flow toilets.)
 The hotel, opened last year by a married couple who live on the property, has the intimate, generous feel of a family place. Sipping an Irish coffee by the fireplace (the bartender uses fresh whipped cream) is the most pleasant introduction to green living conceivable.
 Guest areas in the main lodge and in four other buildings are all modeled on modern Alpine lodges. A system of hot-water tubes heats the floors, which we found comfortable on the snowy night we stayed there. Patty Baird, one of the owners, said that the efficiency in having tankless water heaters close to the bathrooms -- water does not have to travel so far and is preheated by the floor-heating system -- helped to cut the hotel's utility costs to half of what a traditional design might have produced. 
 The extravagance of a steaming outdoor hot tub surrounded by snow can hardly be offset by the bathroom soap dispensers (similar to the Gaia's), but Ms. Baird said the tub is heated by the same tankless system as the bathrooms, consuming half the energy of a conventional system. 
 The Cedar House plans to add more green features, including solar panels, and will apply for LEED certification next year, she said, adding that green goes over well with guests. 
 ''People are responding very positively,'' Ms. Baird said. ''They're learning that you're not sacrificing comfort in order to go green. I think it will become the norm in hotels. People will expect it.''
 Cedar House Sport Hotel, 10918 Brockway Road, Truckee, Calif.; (866) 582-5655; www.cedarhousesporthotel.com; rates start at $180 in winter high season. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SEEING GREEN A terrace at the Orchard Garden, in downtown San Francisco. (pg.F1)
 A NEW REGISTER Screens in the lobby of the Gaia Napa Valley, one America's greenest hotels, track energy usage. (pg.F4) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); GREEN BUILDING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL AMENITIES (78%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (72%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007



630 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Trouble With Trade

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
While the United States has long imported oil and other raw materials from the third world, we used to import manufactured goods mainly from other rich countries like Canada, European nations and Japan. 
 But recently we crossed an important watershed: we now import more manufactured goods from the third world than from other advanced economies. That is, a majority of our industrial trade is now with countries that are much poorer than we are and that pay their workers much lower wages.
 For the world economy as a whole -- and especially for poorer nations -- growing trade between high-wage and low-wage countries is a very good thing. Above all, it offers backward economies their best hope of moving up the income ladder. 
 But for American workers the story is much less positive. In fact, it's hard to avoid the conclusion that growing U.S. trade with third world countries reduces the real wages of many and perhaps most workers in this country. And that reality makes the politics of trade very difficult.
 Let's talk for a moment about the economics.
 Trade between high-wage countries tends to be a modest win for all, or almost all, concerned. When a free-trade pact made it possible to integrate the U.S. and Canadian auto industries in the 1960s, each country's industry concentrated on producing a narrower range of products at larger scale. The result was an all-round, broadly shared rise in productivity and wages.
 By contrast, trade between countries at very different levels of economic development tends to create large classes of losers as well as winners. 
 Although the outsourcing of some high-tech jobs to India has made headlines, on balance, highly educated workers in the United States benefit from higher wages and expanded job opportunities because of trade. For example, ThinkPad notebook computers are now made by a Chinese company, Lenovo, but a lot of Lenovo's research and development is conducted in North Carolina. 
 But workers with less formal education either see their jobs shipped overseas or find their wages driven down by the ripple effect as other workers with similar qualifications crowd into their industries and look for employment to replace the jobs they lost to foreign competition. And lower prices at Wal-Mart aren't sufficient compensation.
 All this is textbook international economics: contrary to what people sometimes assert, economic theory says that free trade normally makes a country richer, but it doesn't say that it's normally good for everyone. Still, when the effects of third-world exports on U.S. wages first became an issue in the 1990s, a number of economists -- myself included -- looked at the data and concluded that any negative effects on U.S. wages were modest. 
 The trouble now is that these effects may no longer be as modest as they were, because imports of manufactured goods from the third world have grown dramatically -- from just 2.5 percent of G.D.P. in 1990 to 6 percent in 2006. 
 And the biggest growth in imports has come from countries with very low wages. The original ''newly industrializing economies'' exporting manufactured goods -- South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore -- paid wages that were about 25 percent of U.S. levels in 1990. Since then, however, the sources of our imports have shifted to Mexico, where wages are only 11 percent of the U.S. level, and China, where they're only about 3 percent or 4 percent.
 There are some qualifying aspects to this story. For example, many of those made-in-China goods contain components made in Japan and other high-wage economies. Still, there's little doubt that the pressure of globalization on American wages has increased.
 So am I arguing for protectionism? No. Those who think that globalization is always and everywhere a bad thing are wrong. On the contrary, keeping world markets relatively open is crucial to the hopes of billions of people. 
 But I am arguing for an end to the finger-wagging, the accusation either of not understanding economics or of kowtowing to special interests that tends to be the editorial response to politicians who express skepticism about the benefits of free-trade agreements.
 It's often claimed that limits on trade benefit only a small number of Americans, while hurting the vast majority. That's still true of things like the import quota on sugar. But when it comes to manufactured goods, it's at least arguable that the reverse is true. The highly educated workers who clearly benefit from growing trade with third-world economies are a minority, greatly outnumbered by those who probably lose.
 As I said, I'm not a protectionist. For the sake of the world as a whole, I hope that we respond to the trouble with trade not by shutting trade down, but by doing things like strengthening the social safety net. But those who are worried about trade have a point, and deserve some respect. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); OFFSHORING (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%)

COMPANY: LENOVO GROUP LTD (82%)

TICKER: 0992 (HKSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); EUROPE (92%); INDIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007



631 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Says North Is Likely to Miss Nuclear Deadline

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
North Korea is likely to miss a year-end deadline to declare all of its nuclear activities and disable its main nuclear site, the South Korean foreign minister said Thursday. 
 The comment by the foreign minister, Song Min-soon, came a day after North Korea warned that it would slow work to disable its main nuclear complex at Yongbyon, north of Pyongyang, the capital, because of delays in deliveries of aid. 
 Delays are a regular feature of carrying out any deal with North Korea but the latest setback will create fresh doubt about a deal previously seen as one of the few diplomatic successes of the Bush administration. 
 In agreements struck in February and fine-tuned in October, North Korea promised to disable its Yongbyon nuclear facilities and give a complete declaration of all its nuclear programs by the end of the year in return for fuel and other aid. 
 ''Our target date was the end of December, but we may not make it,'' Mr. Song told reporters in a news conference four days before the Dec. 31 deadline. ''We face hurdles both in the nuclear disablement and nuclear declaration.'' 
 The likely delay comes at a delicate time in South Korean politics. The transitional team of President-elect Lee Myung-bak, who won the Dec. 19 election with a pledge to get tough on North Korea, has begun to review his country's policy toward the North. 
 Last month, North Korea began disabling its sole operating nuclear reactor and two other plutonium-producing facilities at Yongbyon, under the supervision of American experts.
 The Bush administration, which had once designated North Korea as part of an ''axis of evil'' and refused to deal with it, embraced those agreements as a diplomatic breakthrough at a time when its diplomacy remained bogged down in Iran, another ''axis of evil'' country suspected of nuclear weapons development. 
 On Thursday, Mr. Song said more negotiations were required to solve the dispute that set off the nuclear crisis with North Korea five years ago: whether North Korea has tried to enrich uranium in addition to its known program of making bombs with plutonium. 
 In 2002, the United States confronted North Korea with what it called evidence that the North Koreans were trying to build a uranium enrichment program using centrifuges made of aluminum tubes. In recent talks, however, North Korea failed to give American officials a satisfactory explanation about its uranium enrichment program.
 If that issue is not resolved, the United States and its allies may end up disabling North Korea's plutonium program but may leave it with a potential alternative route to building nuclear bombs with highly enriched uranium. 
 American suspicions about the uranium program -- and the North's denials -- led to the collapse of a 1994 nuclear agreement with North Korea that froze its plutonium program. North Korea revived its plutonium program in 2002 and tested a nuclear device in October 2006. 
 North Korea acknowledges that it imported tons of high-strength aluminum tubes from Russia, and has even provided the United States with samples, saying that they had nothing to do with uranium enrichment. But American officials reportedly found traces of uranium on those samples, though they remained unsure about their origins.
 Kim Sung-han, a North Korea expert at Korea University in Seoul, said, ''As long as North Korea flatly denies that it has had a uranium enrichment program, there cannot be advancement toward the next steps'' -- the dismantling of North Korea's nuclear facilities and the United States' normalization of ties with North Korea. 
 ''North Korea must give an explanation the United States can accept,'' he said. ''There can't be a compromise on this.'' 
 While negotiators continued haggling, Hyun Hak-pong, a vice director general at North Korea's Foreign Ministry, said Wednesday that North Korea had ''no choice but to take measures to adjust'' the disablement work at Yongbyon because aid shipments promised under the October deal were not arriving fast enough, according to Japanese media reports from Pyongyang. 
 In Washington, a State Department spokesman, Gonzalo Gallegos, said that he was not aware of any slowdown in aid and that the United States expected ''further heavy fuel oil shipments and other energy assistance to move forward in the near future.'' 
 North Korea had been promised the equivalent of one million tons of heavy fuel oil in return for disabling its nuclear facilities. It has so far received 150,000 tons of oil and 5,010 tons of steel products to renovate its power plants. 
 Mr. Kim, the Korea University professor, said North Korea's strategy appeared to be to ''minimize'' its nuclear declaration and ''maximize'' the economic rewards it could get from the Yongbyon plant's disablement. North Korea may also stall on the process to increase leverage against the new South Korean government, which will be inaugurated in late February, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (85%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); POLITICS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); CENTRIFUGES (64%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007



632 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Office-Building Workers Again Threaten a Strike

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The union representing 26,000 janitors, doormen and other workers at 1,000 Manhattan office buildings renewed its threats to strike on New Year's Day after a negotiating session ended with little progress on Thursday.
 With hundreds of union members rallying outside the Midtown hotel where the negotiations were being held, the union's president insisted that the workers needed a sizable raise because New York is such an expensive city to live in. 
 At a four-hour negotiating session at the hotel, the Sheraton New York, building owners sought to persuade the union, Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, to scale back its demand for raises exceeding the rate of inflation -- which was 4.3 percent nationally over the past 12 months. 
 The two sides said the session on Thursday ended with considerable differences remaining over wages.
 ''We're making some progress, but we're still a long way apart,'' said Mike Fishman, Local 32BJ's president. Another bargaining session was set for Friday. 
 In an interview, Mr. Fishman defended the union's demands, noting that the workers had received raises totaling 5 percent over three years in their current contract, well below the total inflation, 10 percent, over those three years.
 ''The cost-of-living is not enough for a raise,'' Mr. Fishman said. ''We have some catching up to do. This is a time when working people are being forced to move out of the city because it's so expensive. We don't want to go from being in the middle class to the working poor.''
 In many ways, the union and the building owners seem to be talking past each other. The union's repeated refrain is that the city's real estate industry, with the highest rents per square foot, is the richest in the nation. Management counters that the union's members are the highest-paid building service workers in the nation, and have the best benefits -- they do not have to contribute toward their health insurance premiums, for example.
 James F. Berg, president of the owners' group, the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations, said the workers averaged $40,500 a year in wages and $55,000 a year when the value of health and pension benefits was included.
 He said that, taken together, the wage and benefit increases in the current contract exceeded the inflation rate because of unusually large contributions the building owners made to rescue the union's health plan.
 Paul Salvatore, general counsel to the Realty Advisory Board, said the building workers have beaten the cost of living most years.
 The building owners and the union have what is often called a mature bargaining relationship, meaning the two sides have bargained for decades, often understand each other's perspectives and almost always resolve disputes without a strike. 
 The union last struck the city's commercial buildings in 1996, under volatile circumstances. At the time, management was intent on securing a lower starting wage for new hires, while Local 32BJ's president, contemplating a run for the presidency of the parent union, wanted to flex his muscle. 
 ''We're in extraordinary times when they've made extraordinary profits,'' Mr. Fishman said. ''Two diametrically opposed things are happening. Our members are being squeezed while the industry is getting wealthier. That means that even with a mature relationship, this is going to be a difficult negotiation.''
 Real estate officials in New York acknowledge that their industry is thriving, but worry about giving generous raises when the nation faces a possible recession and the real estate business in much of the nation has stumbled.
 ''It's true that we get the highest sales price per square foot, but that means the people we're dealing with paid the highest per square foot,'' Mr. Berg said. ''That makes it harder for them to pay substantial increases.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); STRIKES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INFLATION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%); LAWYERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007



633 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Officials Cite Confessions in Killings of 6

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: CARNATION, Wash. 

 BODY:
Wayne Anderson bought the trailer next door to his house near here in 2005 with the idea that his youngest daughter might come home to live there, according to the woman who sold him the property. 
 Two years later, on Christmas Eve, the daughter, Michele K. Anderson, and her boyfriend walked the 200 yards from the trailer to the house and opened fire, killing Mr. Anderson, his wife, Judy, his son and daughter-in-law and two grandchildren, investigators said in court papers filed Thursday.
 Ms. Anderson and her boyfriend, Joseph T. McEnroe, both 29, were being held Thursday at the King County Jail. Investigators said the couple admitted to the six killings. They are expected to be charged Friday. 
 ''She felt she wasn't loved enough and everyone didn't appreciate her and she was pushed out of everyone's life,'' Ben Anderson, a grandson of Wayne and Judy Anderson, told reporters late Wednesday.
 Ben Anderson said family tensions over money might have played a role. He did not offer specific reasons; the court papers offered no motive. 
 After a court hearing for the two suspects on Thursday, Mr. Anderson hugged a friend from church, cried and walked away alone in the rain, refusing to comment further. 
 Investigators said that Ms. Anderson shot her father with a 9 millimeter handgun, and that Mr. McEnroe shot him with a .357 revolver and then shot Mrs. Anderson twice. The couple dragged the bodies to a shed in the backyard ''in an attempt to hide them,'' the investigators said.
 About an hour later, when the Andersons' son Scott arrived with his family for a visit, the couple shot and killed him; his wife, Erica; and their children, Olivia, 6, and Nathan, 3, the investigators said, ''knowing that Scott and his family were potential witnesses.''
 ''She killed Scott and Erica, and McEnroe killed the children,'' the court papers said. ''Both suspects have confessed.''
 Local news outlets have reported that a 911 call was made from the property late in the afternoon on Monday. Officers were dispatched at the time but said they could not enter the property because a gate was locked at the end of a driveway. 
 Officials with the King County Sheriff's Office have said that the call appeared to have come at the end of the shooting but that they were investigating why it was not pursued further.
 The court records said that Ms. Anderson and Mr. McEnroe ''tried to flee to Canada after the murders.'' They apparently failed to do so and returned to the Anderson property on Wednesday after investigators had begun examining the scene. It was unclear why the couple returned. 
 Ms. Anderson was listed as unemployed and Mr. McEnroe as having worked as a clerk at a Target store in Issaquah.
 Many people in Carnation, about 20 miles east of Seattle, said Thursday that they knew Judy Anderson, a local mail carrier, though fewer immediately recalled others in the family.
 ''It's just a shock,'' said Sandy Hansen, who runs an espresso shop where Mrs. Anderson used to order a ''triple, 20-ounce white chocolate'' after her deliveries. ''But I have no idea what their problems were.''
 Susan Malin, whose parents lived in the trailer on the Anderson property until they died in 2003, said that she sold the trailer to the Andersons in 2005. She said Wayne Anderson, a former engineer for Boeing, was a contentious negotiator and it was clear that there was tension in the family, though she was not sure of the specific causes. 
 Michele Anderson, she said, ''seemed like a normal gal.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Detectives on Thursday at the property near Carnation, Wash., where six members of a family were killed on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Joseph T. McEnroe, above, and Michele K. Anderson are expected to be charged on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT EKLUND/SEATTLE POST-INTELLIGENCER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); MURDER (76%); SHERIFFS (75%); WITNESSES (75%); CHRISTMAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007



634 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: In Fatal Blast In Midtown, Inquiry Blames Pipe Blockage

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The deadly steam pipe explosion that shook Midtown Manhattan on July 18 was caused by a combination of heavy rainfall, leaks in underground water and sewer pipes and debris that clogged two critical devices designed to let water out of the steam main, according to an extensive investigation whose findings Consolidated Edison released on Thursday.
 In response to the findings, the result of a $1.3 million independent study by two consulting firms hired by the utility, Con Edison promised major changes on Thursday in how it operates the Manhattan steam distribution system. By far the country's largest, the 105-mile system dates to 1882 and provides about 7 percent of the company's $12 billion in annual revenue. 
 Among other changes, Con Edison recently replaced all 1,654 steam traps -- the devices designed to release water from steam mains -- and required its safety patrols to remove manhole covers and check for water in areas traditionally prone to flooding. Previously, the crews merely drove by the manholes to check for vapor. Vapor is a telltale sign -- but not the only sign -- of water accumulation around steam pipes. The utility is also exploring ways to improve the design of the steam traps and better inspect and test them.
 ''Our goal is to ensure this does not happen again,'' Ronald H. Bozgo, vice president for engineering at Con Edison, said in an interview on Thursday at the company's headquarters near Union Square. ''We're going to learn from this. It's a horrible thing. There are no words to express how saddened we are by this event.''
 The late afternoon explosion, in the intersection of East 41st Street and Lexington Avenue, sent a boiling geyser shooting upward, rained debris and mud onto the street and left a crater 37 feet wide and 20 feet deep. A fleeing woman suffered a fatal heart attack, two other people were severely burned and Midtown businesses sustained millions of dollars in economic damages. 
 Critics of Con Edison were not mollified by the investigation. ''This report shows that Con Ed's poor maintenance contributed to this deadly explosion -- that their own repair job clogged valves and kept vital backup systems from functioning,'' said City Councilman Eric N. Gioia, a Queens Democrat whose constituents lost electric power during a blackout in 2006. 
 Under normal circumstances, small amounts of water gather in steam pipes as steam condenses from the loss of heat to the surrounding environment. The condensation is normally drained and then discharged into the sewer system through devices known as steam traps.
 But in the hours before the steam pipe rupture on July 18, two traps malfunctioned after becoming clogged by debris, most of it from a chemical resin that had been used to seal leaks in a nearby joint connecting two sections of pipe. The finding that the resin had blocked the steam traps was reported on Thursday in The Daily News.
 The pipe that exploded was 20 inches in diameter and had been installed, about 20 feet below street level, in 1924. Surprisingly, the investigation found that the pipe, despite its age, was in good condition, with minimal corrosion. The pipe was strong enough to withstand a total applied pressure of about 1,200 pounds per square inch, well above the normal pressure of the steam flowing through it, which was about 160 pounds per square inch.
 The pipe itself was not the problem, but rather the equipment around it, according to the investigation. 
 In the early hours of July 18, water began to accumulate around the steam main, cooling the pipe and causing condensation to form, as often occurs when it rains. 
 Images from a security camera near the site of the explosion showed vapor rising from a manhole at the intersection from 9 a.m. until about 10:05 a.m. on July 18. After that, vapor was no longer visible. 
 A Con Edison safety patrol visited the site around 11:30 a.m. looking for vapor. Seeing none, the crew drove off.
 Meanwhile, a perilous situation was developing underground. So much water had gathered around the steam main that the pipe itself cooled, no longer sending off the telltale vapor.
 Condensed water had collected inside the pipe as well. Normally, that water is drained away from a low point in the main and pushed upward and through steam traps, which release the water while containing the steam. But the two traps near the steam main had become clogged by the resin, known as an epoxy, which a contractor had used on March 14 to seal a leaking joint.
 That set the stage for the accident.
 Just before the explosion, at 5:56 p.m., a routine adjustment in steam flow caused some steam to enter the cooled water that had collected inside the main, creating a steam bubble. 
 Upon contact, the steam bubble condensed very rapidly, creating a vacuum and causing water to rush in and fill the void. Water rushing from one direction slammed into water rushing from another, creating a phenomenon known as a ''water hammer,'' a ''large momentary pressure pulse,'' according to the investigation. 
 The pressure from that water hammer most likely exceeded 1,200 pounds per square inch, causing the steam main to burst. It was the greatest disruption of the city's steam network since a steam main exploded near Gramercy Park on Aug. 19, 1989, killing three people. 
 The main findings in the investigation came from ABS Consulting Group of Stratham, N.H., a risk management company that is part of the ABS Group of Houston. A second company, Lucius Pitkin Inc. of Manhattan, conducted metals testing, a key element of the investigation.
 The two reports were completed on Dec. 18 and presented to the state's Public Service Commission and aides to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg the next day.
 Bob McGee, a Con Edison spokesman, said the utility planned to announce the findings, along with the company's action plan for averting future accidents, in early January, but the company made all three documents available on Thursday after The Daily News reported the findings about the resin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); PROCESS STEAM UTILITIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WEATHER (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); BURN INJURIES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); DAMAGES (61%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007



635 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; OBITUARY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2088 words

HEADLINE: Benazir Bhutto, Who Weathered Pakistan's Political Storm for 3 Decades

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS; Reporting was contributed by David E. Sanger, Jane Perlez, David Rohde and Helene Cooper.

 BODY:
Benazir Bhutto, who was assassinated at age 54 on Thursday in the Pakistani city of Rawalpindi, spent three decades navigating the turbulent and often violent world of Pakistani politics, becoming in 1988 the first woman to be democratically elected to lead a modern Muslim country. 
 A deeply polarizing figure, the self-styled ''daughter of Pakistan'' was twice elected prime minister and twice expelled from office amid a swirl of corruption charges that ultimately propelled her into self-imposed exile in London, New York and Dubai for much of the past decade. She returned home only two months ago, defying threats to her life as she embarked on a bid for election to a third term in office, billing herself as a bulwark against Islamic extremism and a tribune of democracy. 
 The combined bombing and shooting attack that killed her as she left a political rally, standing through the open roof of her car to greet milling crowds of supporters, came as Ms. Bhutto staged a series of mass meetings across Pakistan. She did that despite her aides' appeals for caution in the wake of a double suicide bombing that narrowly failed to kill her on the night of her return from exile in October. That attack, which killed more than 130 people, came as she drove from the airport in Karachi to her home on the city's seafront, and provoked a characteristic response.
 ''We will continue to meet the public,'' she said as she visited survivors of the bombings at a Karachi hospital. ''We will not be deterred.''
 When asked to explain the courage -- or stubbornness, as some of her critics saw it -- that she displayed at critical junctures in her political career, Ms. Bhutto often referred to the example she said had been set by her father, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. He was a charismatic and often demagogic politician who was president and prime minister from 1971 to 1977, before being hanged in April 1979 on charges of having ordered the murder of a minor political opponent. 
 Mr. Bhutto was the founder in 1967 of the Pakistan Peoples Party, the political vehicle that he, and later his daughter, rode to power. Like his daughter, Mr. Bhutto battled for years with Pakistan's powerful generals. He was ousted from office, and ultimately executed, on the orders of Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, one of the long succession of military rulers who have dominated Pakistan for nearly 40 of the 60 years since it emerged as an independent state from the partition of British India. 
 Under house arrest at the time, Ms. Bhutto was allowed to visit her father before his execution at Rawalpindi's central prison, only a short distance from the site of the rally where she was killed nearly three decades later. In a BBC interview in the 1990s, she said seeing her father preparing to die steeled her for her own political career, which some biographers have suggested was driven, in part, by a determination to avenge him by outmaneuvering the generals. 
 A History of Violence
 Violence ran like a thread through her family life, to an extent that caused her admirers to compare the Bhuttos, in the contribution they made to Pakistan's political life, and in the price they paid for it, to the Kennedys -- and her enemies, pointing to the Bhuttos' bitter family feuds, to compare them to the Borgias. The younger of Ms. Bhutto's two brothers, Shahnawaz, died mysteriously of poisoning in 1995, in an apartment owned by the Bhuttos in Cannes, France. French investigators said they suspected that a family feud over a multimillion-dollar inheritance from Zulfikar Bhutto was involved, but no charges were filed. 
 Ms. Bhutto's other brother, Murtaza, who along with Shahnawaz founded a terrorist group that sought to topple General Zia, spent years in exile in Syria beginning in the 1980s. When Murtaza finally returned to Pakistan, in 1994, he quickly fell into a bitter dispute with Ms. Bhutto over the family's political legacy -- and, he told a reporter at the time, over the money he said his father had placed in a Swiss bank when he was prime minister. In 1996, Murtaza was gunned down outside his home in Karachi, and his widow, Ghinva, blamed Asif Ali Zardari, Ms. Bhutto's husband. Ms. Bhutto's Iranian-born mother, Nusrat, sided in the dispute with Murtaza, and was dismissed by Ms. Bhutto as the Peoples Party chairman. ''I had no idea I had nourished a viper in my breast,'' she said of her daughter at the time. 
 Born on June 21, 1953, Ms. Bhutto, the first child in her family, reveled in telling friends that she was her father's favorite. One of her most cherished anecdotes about her childhood involved her father's encouraging her to set aside traditional Muslim views of a woman's role and to have ambitions beyond the home, a message she said he conveyed with stories about Joan of Arc and Indira Gandhi. 
 After attending a private Christian-run school in Karachi, where the family maintained a luxurious mansion, Ms. Bhutto studied at Radcliffe College, earning a Harvard B.A. in 1973, and later at Oxford, where she gained a second B.A. in 1976. At Oxford, she was the first woman to become president of the Oxford Union, the prestigious debating society that nurtured several British prime ministers.
 In her memoir, she described what life as a young woman at Harvard felt like. ''I was amongst a sea of women who felt as unimpeded by their gender as I did,'' she wrote. At Oxford, she adopted a Westernized way of life, spending winters at the Swiss ski resort of Gstaad. She said later that her passions at the time included reading royal biographies and ''slushy'' romances, and browsing at the London department store Harrods -- a habit she maintained throughout the rest of her life.
 From Oxford, Ms. Bhutto was thrust abruptly into the heart of Pakistani politics by General Zia's arrest of her father in 1977, and by his execution 18 months later. Ms. Bhutto wrote in her memoir of her last meeting with her father, through a metal grille at the Rawalpindi Prison. ''But I did not cry. Daddy told me not to,'' she recalled. 
 From that moment on, Ms. Bhutto said in later years, she resolved to oust General Zia from power. But in August 1988, the general and the American ambassador, Arnold L. Raphel, were killed when their military plane exploded and crashed in southern Pakistan. Three months later, when she was 35, Ms. Bhutto won a general election and formed her first government, only to be ousted by Pakistan's president in 1990, having served less than half her term. In 1993, she won a second election, but was again dismissed in 1996. 
 Her accomplishments in office were few. She claimed in later years that she had clamped down on Islamic militants, established a strong basis for democracy by paring away many of the restrictions on civil liberties imposed by the generals, and provided a boost to the economy, especially in her second term, by attracting a flow of foreign investment. But on both occasions, she was dismissed, under pressure from the military on charges of corruption and incompetent governance. Her ouster, on both occasions, sparked only sporadic protests across Pakistan.
 Complexity and Contradictions
 A woman of complex and often contradictory instincts, Ms. Bhutto was a politician who presented herself on public platforms as the standard-bearer for Pakistan's impoverished masses, for civil liberties and for an unfettered democracy. But she made enemies with her imperious and impulsive manner as prime minister in dealing with government officials, diplomats and reporters, and by what hercritics described as an instinct for political vindictiveness. She recalled how her father taught her the importance of deceit in politics, lessons she said she had rejected in favor of openness. But American officials were troubled by her account of her role in Pakistan's secret nuclear weapons program. She maintained in recent years that the Pakistani military had kept her in the dark about the weapons program, and that the first she knew of it was in a CIA briefing in Washington in 1989.
 In an interview two years ago for a documentary produced by The New York Times and the Canadian Broadcasting Company, she said she also did not know, when in office, that A. Q. Khan, the head of the Pakistani nuclear program, was selling nuclear technology to other states, including Libya and North Korea. But according to accounts given by Dr. Khan's associates, Ms. Bhutto, after visits to North Korea in the 1990s, returned to Islamabad with North Korean missile designs intended to be mated to the Pakistani bomb.
 In ''Daughter of Destiny,'' her 1989 memoir, she rebuked reporters for calling attention to her dress, almost always the traditional loose-fitting robe favored by Pakistani women, saying she did not care about matters like dress. But among her aides and Pakistani diplomats, who often accompanied her on shopping trips abroad, she gained a reputation for buying expensive jewelry and shoes and at elite stores in Beverly Hills, London and Paris.
 Her critics often attributed her flushes of haughtiness and her expensive tastes to a sense of entitlement, as Zulfikar Bhutto's daughter and as the pre-eminent member of a wealthy land-owning family from the cotton-growing southern province of Sindh. The egalitarian credo Ms. Bhutto preached as a politician found little echo in the lives of the impoverished men and women, many of them indentured workers, who worked the family's ancestral lands.
 After her second dismissal from office in 1996, a friend said Ms. Bhutto's sense of herself as inseparable from the fate of Pakistan contributed to actions that led Pakistani investigators to accuse her and Mr. Zardari of embezzling as much $1.5 billion from government accounts.
 British and American private investigators working for the government of her political rival Nawaz Sharif, produced a thick volume of documents tracing what they said were multimillion-dollar kickbacks paid to the couple in return for the award of government contracts, and a web of bank accounts across the world that were used to hide the money. Ms. Bhutto and Mr. Zardari vehemently rejected the allegations, saying their accusers wanted to drive her from power.
 Criminal probes of the couple's financial dealings were opened in Britain, Spain and Switzerland, among other places. But the cases against the couple in Pakistan languished for years in the courts, and the cases against Ms. Bhutto were ultimately quashed by an amnesty granted by Pakistan's president, Pervez Musharraf, as part of an American-brokered deal that cleared the way for Ms. Bhutto to return to Pakistan in the fall to participate in elections that Mr. Musharraf set for January. 
 The American bid to restore her to power in Islamabad reflected her tireless efforts to maintain a network of the powerful among the political media elite in Washington and in London. 
 Among her friends, Ms. Bhutto's marriage to Mr. Zardari, who was in Dubai when she was killed, was seen as central to understanding much that went awry in her life in the years after her father was hanged. The marriage in 1987 was an arranged one, in the Muslim tradition; her mother acted as marriage broker. Mr. Zardari came from a modest business family that owned a cinema.
 Ms. Bhutto herself spoke soberly of what an arranged marriage entailed, saying that her five years under house arrest -- and, briefly, in prison -- under General Zia, had left her with little opportunity for courtship. But friends watched with fascination as her relationship with Mr. Zardari developed. Handsome, with a macho style that Ms. Bhutto told friends she thought at first was ridiculous, he became an important figure in her two governments, serving in her cabinet in her second term in a role that gave him a major role in approving foreign investment.
 Mr. Zardari's nickname among Pakistanis, Mr. 10 Percent, spoke for the widespread sense that he had led Ms. Bhutto into the financial irregularities that played an important role in her decision to go into exile. Mr. Zardari, arrested before she left, spent eight years in jail but never faced trial and was freed by Mr. Musharraf and eventually allowed to leave Pakistan. Ms. Bhutto never wavered in defense of her husband. ''Time will tell he is the Mandela of Pakistan,'' she said. The couple had two sons, Bilawal and Bakhtwar, and a daughter, Aseefa. Bilawal, 19, began studies in the fall at Oxford. The two younger children remained with their father in Dubai.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Friday for Benazir Bhutto, the former prime minister of Pakistan, incorrectly described her children. She had one son, Bilawal, and two daughters, Bakhtwar and Aseefa, not two sons and one daughter. It included the wrong year for the death of her brother Shahnawaz. It was in 1985, not 1995. It also gave the incorrect name for the entity that broadcast an interview about the sale of Pakistan's nuclear technology to other states. It was the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, not Company. 
An obituary on Dec. 28 about Benazir Bhutto, the former prime minister of Pakistan, misstated the location of her detention at the time her father, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the former president and prime minister, was hanged by the military authorities in April 1979. It was a deserted police training camp at Sihala, Pakistan, a few miles from the Rawalpindi District Jail where her father was hanged; she was not under house arrest.
 The obituary also misstated a precedent set by Ms. Bhutto when she attended Oxford University, where she gained a B.A. in 1976. She was the first Asian woman -- not the first woman -- to become president of the Oxford Union, the prestigious debating society.
 And the obituary overstated what is known about the August 1988 military plane crash in southern Pakistan that killed Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, the Pakistani ruler who had ordered Mr. Bhutto's execution. While investigators suspected sabotage, it was never established that the plane exploded.

GRAPHIC: HOMECOMING Two suicide bombers attacked Ms. Bhutto's homecoming convoy in Karachi in October. ASSOCIATED PRESS EXILE Ms. Bhutto in August, weeks before her return. AAMIR QURESHI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES WITNESS TO POWER Ms. Bhutto, left, as her father, Pakistan's president, shook hands with Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India in 1972. Ms. Bhutto said her father's death vigil prepared her for her political career. RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES PRIME MINISTER Ms. Bhutto took the oath of office in Islamabad on Dec. 2, 1988, to become the first female leader in the modern Muslim world. ASSOCIATED PRESS A FAMILY'S DESTINY At left, the Bhutto family in 1978, with Benazir on couch, right of her father, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. Above, Ms. Bhutto in 1976 as president of Oxford Union. NORBERT SCHILLER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BOMBINGS (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MURDER (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); RELIGION (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); HOUSE ARREST (71%); ARRESTS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%)

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007



636 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-15
 Bhutto Is Slain at a Rally; New Turmoil for Pakistan
 Benazir Bhutto, the Pakistani opposition leader and twice-serving prime minister, was assassinated as she left a political rally in Rawalpindi, a scene of carnage that plunged Pakistan deeper into political turmoil and threatened to ignite widespread violence by her enraged supporters. A1 
 Ms. Bhutto, who was 54, spent three decades navigating the turbulent and often violent world of Pakistani politics, becoming in 1988 the first woman to lead a modern Muslim country. A14 
 U.S. Kills 11 Sadr Loyalists
 American soldiers raided a neighborhood in the southern Iraqi city of Kut, killing 11 members of the Mahdi Army, the militia loyal to the anti-American Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, the American military said. A8 Election Tests Kenyan System
 Millions of Kenyans voted in a presidential election that is predicted to be the tightest race in the country's history and perhaps the greatest test yet of its young democracy. A3 
 North Korea May Miss Date
 North Korea is likely to miss a year-end deadline to declare all of its nuclear activities and disable its main nuclear site, the South Korean foreign minister said. A9 
 Threats Limit Algerian Press
 With attacks by Islamic militants rising in Algeria and the government's repression of Islamists continuing, Algerian journalists find themselves in the middle, and under increasing threat from both sides. A8 Toll in Mudslides Reaches 80
 Mudslides have killed at least 80 people in remote mountain villages in Central Java since Wednesday morning. A4 
 NATIONALA16-21 
 Campaigns Spend More On Broadcast Ads
 One week before Iowa kicks off the presidential nomination contest, the campaigns are spending three times as much money flooding the airwaves and the Internet as candidates did in 2004, hoping to sway undecided voters after months of campaigning. A1 
 Senator John McCain kicked off his first full day of a brief campaign swing through Iowa, hoping his ascendancy in recent polls in New Hampshire would help propel him in Iowa, where he has struggled. A21 
 A Rise in Attacks on Clinics
 A rash of attacks on abortion and family-planning clinics has struck Albuquerque this month, the first such violence there in nearly a decade. A16 
 Couple Held in Killings of 6
 A man and a woman were being held at the King County Jail pending investigation of six counts of murder. Investigators say the couple admitted to the killings in Carnation, Wash. A17 
 Wall at Zoo Deemed Too Low
 The director of the San Francisco Zoo, where a Siberian tiger killed one teenager and mauled two men , said that the cement wall surrounding the exhibit where the animal was held is nearly four feet shorter than the recommended national standard. A16 
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 Decoding Genetic Diseases
 With technology that can now scan each of an individual's 46 chromosomes for minute aberrations, doctors are providing thousands of children lumped together as ''autistic,'' or ''developmentally delayed'' with distinct genetic diagnoses. A1 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-6
 Man Jailed for 17 Years Is Released on Bail
 Martin H. Tankleff, 36, walked free from a Suffolk County courthouse after being imprisoned nearly half his life for the murders of his parents -- crimes he insists he did not commit. Relatives posted a $1 million bond, and celebrated with Mr. Tankleff and other supporters at a victory party. B1
 Move Shows Aide's Sway
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg named Robert C. Lieber, a protege of Daniel L. Doctoroff, to succeed Mr. Doctoroff as deputy mayor for economic development. The move underscores Mr. Doctoroff's continued influence over city development. B1
 BUSINESS DAYC1-9A Post-Google Fraternity
 A growing network of Google veterans is getting even richer by bankrolling technology start-ups throughout Silicon Valley. C1 
 E-Tailing Growth Slows
 Holiday e-commerce sales grew 19 percent over last year, but that is a lower rate of growth than over the last few years. Retailing analysts blame the tight economy and a changing curve in online shopping. C4 
 Gloom on Wall Street
 Stock markets tumbled after the assassination of the Pakistani opposition leader Benazir Bhutto, but analysts blamed the sell-off more on a shaky economy than fear of upheaval from the slaying. C1
 Insurer Curbs a Payment
 The health plan manager Aetna is curtailing payment for the use of a powerful anesthetic during a common form of colon cancer screening. C2 
 Business DigestC2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (83%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MAMMALS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WOMEN (77%); WILD CATS (72%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELIGION (70%); FAMILY PLANNING (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); MURDER (58%); HISTORY (53%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); ALGERIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007



637 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Iowa Saturated by Political Ads In 11th-Hour Bid for Undecided

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: DES MOINES 

 BODY:
One week before Iowa kicks off the presidential nomination contest, the campaigns are spending three times as much money flooding the airwaves and the Internet as candidates did in 2004, hoping to sway the huge number of undecided voters after months of on-the-ground appeals.
 In one of her single biggest television expenditures here, advisers said Thursday, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, is spending more than $20,000 to broadcast a two-minute taped message during every 6 p.m. newscast in Iowa on the eve of the caucuses, Jan. 2, which will be seen by an estimated 515,510 adults in the state. 
 Mitt Romney is preparing a new advertising blitz this weekend in hopes of stemming the momentum of his 11th-hour breakaway Republican rival here, Mike Huckabee.
 And, signaling the sharpening tone of the advertising wars, Rudolph W. Giuliani's campaign released a commercial Thursday invoking imagery of Sept. 11, a tactic President Bush's campaign was criticized for in 2004. 
 The campaigns are still unsure whether to use negative advertisements against opponents here. For now, they are calibrating their mainly positive advertisements to reflect the themes playing out here: change vs. status quo politics, new ideas on domestic concerns and Iraq vs. old thinking, the need for fresh leadership, and their respect for the first-in-the-nation Iowa caucuses.
 ''I believe that on the night of Jan. 3, you're going to say enough is enough,'' another Democrat, John Edwards, says in one of two television spots that began running Thursday. ''There's going to be a rising that begins right here in Iowa,'' he says, ''and it's going to spread across America, and it will be a wave of change that cannot be stopped.''
 The Democrats are spending by far the most on television advertising here, and smashing records in the process. Senator Barack Obama of Illinois has spent the most, at $8.3 million, Mrs. Clinton has spent $6.5 million, and Mr. Edwards, of North Carolina, has spent $2.7 million, according to an analysis by CMAG, a firm that tracks political advertising spending. Over the last week, Democratic candidates combined have spent at least $565,000 on television advertising, for a total of $23.7 million this year. In the 2004 race, Democratic candidates set a record by spending a combined $9.1 million for the entire campaign in Iowa.
 And the number of advertisements has increased accordingly: they have run 44,600 times in Iowa this cycle, compared with a total of 28,054 four years ago.
 Republican candidates -- Mr. Romney, Fred D. Thompson and Mr. Huckabee -- have spent a total of $9.5 million so far on Iowa advertising. Mr. Romney has spent by far the most, $6.5 million on more than 8,000 spots, though his considerable and early investment has not helped him maintain his initial lead in polls; Mr. Huckabee, a former Arkansas governor, now appears to hold the lead, and he and Mr. Thompson, a former senator from Tennessee, have each spent just over $1 million on advertising. (President Bush did not face opposition in Iowa in 2004.)
 The spending means that when Iowans sit down to watch prime-time shows or the evening news, they face an unending barrage of political advertisements. Based on current turnout predictions, the Democrats may end up spending $140 to $150 on advertisements per caucusgoer, and the Republicans $95 to $105.
 While the candidates are largely refraining from attacking one another in their advertisements, Iowans are seeing negative spots from independent groups, like a commercial critical of Mr. Huckabee's record on taxes by the Club for Growth, an antitax group.
 The advertising onslaught is hardly expected to end when the voting is over in Iowa. The candidates are also breaking records in New Hampshire, which holds the first primary, on Jan. 8. Mr. Romney, the former governor of neighboring Massachusetts, has spent about $6 million there on advertising, more than twice as much as his chief rivals in the state, Senator John McCain of Arizona and Mr. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City. Among Democrats, Mr. Obama has spent slightly more than Mrs. Clinton, about $3.7 million. Altogether, the candidates from both parties have spent about $21 million there.
 Indeed, campaign spending for political messages on television, radio and other media is expected to reach a record $3 billion in the 2008 cycle, according to a recent report by PQ Media, which tracks political advertising.
 Many candidates hope this barrage of advertising will give them early momentum coming off the Iowa caucuses. Yet each party's candidates differ in what they hope to accomplish with their advertisements.
 The advertising strategy of the three leading Democrats reflects a similar goal: to convince Iowans that each candidate represents the best chance to win the White House and change Washington politics. Mrs. Clinton emphasizes her experience and ability to deal with big challenges, like restoring the economy and America's global ''greatness,'' while Mr. Obama focuses on his vision and judgment, including opposing the Iraq war from the start. Mr. Edwards is trying to position himself as an outsider less beholden to Washington interests than his two leading opponents, who are sitting senators.
 ''We think the question that people should be asking is, Who would be the best president, what are the stakes ahead for the country, and who has the steady leadership to bring about change?'' said Mandy Grunwald, the advertising adviser for the Clinton campaign, which began running a new spot on Thursday. ''We believe this ad makes it clear that Hillary Clinton is that candidate.''
 Mr. Obama, meanwhile, began running a spot last week highlighting his candidacy as a break from the past and promising change for people who are ''struggling paycheck to paycheck'' and losing jobs because their companies are moving overseas. ''Enough is enough,'' he says in closing the spot.
 According to an analysis of the commercials in Iowa, Mr. Edwards is emphasizing words like ''America,'' ''health care'' and ''work''; Mrs. Clinton is emphasizing ''change,'' ''ready'' and ''health;'' and Mr. Obama is repeatedly mentioning ''America,'' ''need,'' ''people'' and ''Washington.'' All three have avoided overtly negative themes, although some Clinton spots have suggested that she has more experience than her rivals, and the new Edwards advertisements are positioning him as the candidate who will ''tell the truth.''
 The Republican advertisements emphasize taxes, while the Democrats have not mentioned income or property taxes. And several Republicans, in various broadcast and online commercials, have frequently portrayed Mrs. Clinton's election as a dark possibility facing Americans.
 While the candidates are relying on YouTube and other Internet sites to promote their messages, television and radio remain the favored venues in Iowa.
 And, by and large, the candidates have avoided the sort of attacks that helped curdle support for Howard Dean of Vermont and Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri in the 2004 contest here.
 ''Just about everyone has gone to uplifting, positive ads about themselves and their vision, assuming, I think correctly, that Iowans will not tolerate this very long race getting ugly in the end,'' said Bruce Gronbeck, a University of Iowa professor who has studied the advertisements. ''It's as if they've resigned themselves that, barring a last-minute anxiety attack on the candidate's part, they have to win this on a positive message.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 29, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Friday about the late blitz of political advertisements in Iowa misidentified the state where the Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards lives. It is North Carolina -- not South Carolina, where he was born.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (78%) IOWA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007



638 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Weak Data Puts Shares In a Tailspin

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
American stock markets tumbled and oil prices surged on Thursday as investors grappled with weak economic data and concerns about financial fallout from the assassination of the Pakistani opposition leader, Benazir Bhutto. 
 The Dow Jones industrials dropped at the opening bell, just over an hour after Ms. Bhutto was pronounced dead after being attacked by a suicide bomber near Islamabad. The sell-off accelerated in the afternoon, and the blue-chip benchmark ended the day down 192.08 points, or 1.42 percent, at 13,359.61. 
 The sell-off continued in Asia, where all benchmarks dropped early Friday. The Nikkei 225 stock average closed down 1.7 percent in a shortened session on the last trading day of the year in Japan. 
 The attack set the tone for a gloomy day on Wall Street, though analysts blamed shaky reports about the economy for the sell-off. Orders of durable goods came in weaker than expected in November, a sign that businesses were losing confidence in consumers' willingness to buy. New claims for unemployment benefits also ticked up last week, suggesting a weakening labor market.
 Financial companies were hit particularly hard after a Goldman Sachs analyst said the subprime mortgage crisis could cause three of its major Wall Street rivals to write off an additional $34 billion in the value of their securities. Shares of the three banks, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Merrill Lynch, fell more than 2 percent. 
 ''It's a thinly traded market and it doesn't take much in terms of negative news to skew the market on the downside,'' said Quincy Krosby, chief investment strategist at The Hartford, a financial services firm. ''We had a constellation of negative news today.''
 Oil prices jumped above $97 a barrel after the Energy Department said domestic petroleum supplies dropped last week. Crude futures eventually settled at $96.62, a 65 cent gain and the highest price in more than a month. Oil prices have gained more than $5 in the last two weeks.
 Most of the increase came after the disappointing inventory report, and some analysts said the violence in Pakistan had little effect on the market. 
 ''We've always understood how volatile and dangerous that place is,'' said Larry Goldstein, a director at the Energy Policy Research Foundation. ''This confirms what we already know.''
 Pakistan is not a major oil producer, but Middle East politics often play an influential role in the petroleum trade. 
 ''There's no direct relationship between crude oil and what happens in Pakistan,'' said Tom Bentz, senior energy analyst at BNP Paribas. ''But any political unrest, and the fact that they do own nuclear weapons, certainly raises tensions a little bit.''
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a broader measure of large American companies, had modest gains earlier in the week, a traditionally quiet period encompassing the Christmas and New Year's break. On Thursday, the index lost 1.43 percent, or 21.39 points, to close at 1,476.27. The Nasdaq composite index, which is weighted toward technology stock, finished at 2,676.79, down 47.62 points, or 1.75 percent. 
 New orders of large-scale commercial goods like appliances, airplanes and machinery rose 0.1 percent last month, far short of analysts' forecasts. Orders of products outside the transportation sector, which tend to be less volatile from month to month, dipped 0.7 percent after a 0.9 percent decline in October, the Commerce Department said.
 The gloomy news overshadowed a small uptick in consumer confidence. Americans were more hopeful this month that economic conditions would eventually improve, according to the Conference Board, though the group's survey remained near its lowest level in two years. 
 Anxiety over the attack in Pakistan that killed Ms. Bhutto and at least a dozen others may have led investors into more conservative corners of the market. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 20/32, to 
 100 13/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.20 percent from 4.27 percent late Wednesday. Gold prices also moved higher, but analysts said any long-term financial effect from the bombing would be small.
 ''The markets have become kind of jaded,'' said Brian Gendreau, an investment strategist at ING Investment Management. 
 ''How many traders know where she fits into the political spectrum in Pakistan, and how many would be able to digest what the risk would be for that area of the world?'' he said. ''I don't think very many.''
 The major European markets appeared to shrug off the news, with a benchmark London index ending the day in positive territory. French and German markets also retained their gains.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of five-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE
THE FAVORITES
FREDDIE MAC YIELDS
TAX-EXEMPT TIELDS
 FIVE-YEAR TREASURY NOTES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FUTURES (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (51%); SUBPRIME LENDING (51%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007



639 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 720 words

 BODY:
GIULIANI UNDER SCRUTINY In 2002, the drug maker Purdue Pharma hired Rudolph W. Giuliani and his consulting firm to help stem the controversy about OxyContin. Among Mr. Giuliani's missions was convincing public officials that they could trust Purdue because they could trust him. 
 MOVIE RENTALS FROM APPLEDespite the fact that Apple's chief executive and co-founder, Steven P. Jobs, has been publicly skeptical about movie rentals in the past, several people said that more than one Hollywood studio would appear onstage at the company's MacWorld exhibition to endorse a new Apple movie rental service. [C7.] 
 OLYMPIC SECURITY Some American companies are helping the Chinese government design and install high-tech public surveillance systems for the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing. But after the visitors leave, security industry experts say, the surveillance equipment will provide Chinese authorities with new tools to track not only criminals, but dissidents, too. [C1.]
 THE MILLIONAIRES CLUB Three years after Google went public, a fast-growing network of company veterans is fanning out across Silicon Valley, hoping to parlay their newfound wealth into even greater riches by bankrolling technology start-ups. V. C. Nation. [C1.]
 STOCK MARKET TUMBLES The assassination of the Pakistani opposition leader, Benazir Bhutto, set the tone for a gloomy day on Wall Street, though analysts blamed the sell-off on shaky reports about the economy. The Dow Jones industrials ended the day down 192.08 points, or 1.42 percent, at 13,359.61. [C1.]
 CREDIT CRISIS REDUX In the days of easy money that prevailed until this summer, subprime lending showed similarities to other forms of lending: the smug confidence that nothing could go wrong and that credit quality did not matter could be seen in many other markets. High & Low Finance: Floyd Norris. [C1.]
 RED CARPET WORRIES Even as the Hollywood Foreign Press Association gives reassurances that the star power of the Golden Globes, the organization's annual awards ceremony, will not be dimmed, Hollywood has watched the industry's deepening labor dispute bring its annual movie awards race to a near halt. [C1.]
 AETNA TO LIMIT USE OF DRUG After similar moves by other insurance companies, Aetna said that it planned to classify a powerful anesthetic used during a common form of colon cancer screening as ''medically unnecessary'' for most such procedures. [C2.]
 GENERAL RE SUBPOENAS A judge has ruled that Berkshire Hathaway and its General Reinsurance unit must comply with subpoenas to turn over documents to defense lawyers for the subsidiary's former chief executive, Ronald E. Ferguson, whose fraud trial begins Jan. 7. [C2.]
 SLOWER GROWTH ONLINE Holiday sales on the Internet were robust, industry analysts said, but the sales growth of 19 percent was down sharply from the 25 to 30 percent rates in recent years, making the holidays of 2007 a vivid symbol of the changing growth curve for online sales. [C4.]
 ESSENCE EDITOR TO LEAVE Hoping to devote more time to her foundation, which mentors young adults, Susan L. Taylor, the longtime editor and driving force behind Essence magazine, is leaving the publication. [C7.]
 SEAFOOD STANDARDS IN CHINA As part of an effort to ensure consumers and importers that the country's seafood products are safe and healthy, China said that it would introduce an array of production standards to improve product safety and guard against the use of illegal veterinary drugs. [C4.]
 DISCOVER NURTURES PARENTS The Discover credit card is attempting to attract parents with a campaign offering time-management tips in Parents magazine and on its Web site. Advertising. [C7.]
 WARNER'S UNRESTRICTED MUSIC In a deal to sell songs and albums without anticopying software through Amazon's digital-music service, the Warner Music Group becomes the latest major music corporation to scale back its use of so-called digital rights management software and offer its catalog in the MP3 format. [C7.]
 A DISAPPOINTING RISE The Commerce Department reported that orders for durable goods increased just 0.1 percent last month, falling short of expectations for a much bigger gain. In other economic news, more people signed up for unemployment benefits last week, a sign that the job market was softening as the economy lost speed. [C9.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); FILM (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (85%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); CANCER (73%); INSURANCE (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (69%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); STOCK INDEXES (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (63%); COLORECTAL CANCER (60%); INTERNET RETAILING (60%); REINSURANCE (60%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (50%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); GOOGLE INC (56%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (51%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); BRK.B (NYSE) (51%); BRK.A (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (51%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (51%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (91%); STEVEN JOBS (71%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2007



640 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1793 words

HEADLINE: Eyes on Olympics (The Wired Kind)

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
In preparation for the Beijing Olympics and a series of other international events, some American companies are helping the Chinese government design and install one of the most comprehensive high-tech public surveillance systems in the world.
 When told of the companies' transactions, critics of China's human rights record said the work violated the spirit of a sanctions law Congress passed after the Tiananmen Square killings.
The Commerce Department, however, says the sophisticated systems being installed, by companies like Honeywell, General Electric, United Technologies and I.B.M., do not run afoul of the ban on providing China with ''crime control or detection instruments or equipment.'' But the department has just opened a 45-day review of its policies on the sale of crime-control gear to China.
 With athletes and spectators coming from around the world, every Olympic host nation works to build the best security system it can. In an era of heightened terrorism concerns, it could be argued, high-tech surveillance will be an indispensable part of China's security preparations for the Olympics, which runs Aug. 8 to 24. And given China's enormous economic potential, corporations are always eager to get a foothold here; the Olympics provides a prime opportunity. 
 But China's regime, the most authoritarian to hold an Olympics since the Soviet Union's in 1980, also presents particular challenges. Long after the visitors leave, security industry experts say, the surveillance equipment that Western companies leave behind will provide the authorities here with new tools to track not only criminals, but dissidents too. 
 ''I don't know of an intelligence-gathering operation in the world that, when given a new toy, doesn't use it,'' said Steve Vickers, a former head of criminal intelligence for the Hong Kong police who now leads a consulting firm.
 Indeed, the autumn issue of the magazine of China's public security ministry prominently listed places of religious worship and Internet cafes as locations to install new cameras.
 A Commerce Department official who insisted on anonymity said that the agency was reviewing its entire list of banned exports, including military equipment, although the sale of crime control gear to China is on a special, fast-track review. Asked whether equipment identified as commercial by Western manufacturers could have crime control applications, the official replied, ''There may be users in China who figure out law enforcement uses for it.''
 Multinationals are reluctant to discuss their sales to China's security forces, but they say they have done everything necessary to comply with relevant laws.
 Information is not easy to come by, but an outline of China's mammoth effort can be found in interviews with engineers at the public security ministry's biennial convention, in visits to Chinese surveillance camera factories and police stations, and in reports on China prepared for member companies of the Security Industry Association, a trade group based in Alexandria, Va. 
 Interviews with security experts and executives in Asia and the United States also provided previously unknown details about the systems American companies are providing.
 Honeywell has already started helping the police to set up an elaborate computer monitoring system to analyze feeds from indoor and outdoor cameras in one of Beijing's most populated districts, where several Olympic sites are located. 
 The company is working on more expansive systems in Shanghai, in preparation for the 2010 World Expo there -- in addition to government and business security systems in Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Nanjing, Changsha, Tianjin, Kunming and Xi'an.
 General Electric has sold to Chinese authorities its powerful VisioWave system, which allows security officers to control thousands of video cameras simultaneously and automatically alerts them to suspicious or fast-moving objects, like people running. The system will be deployed at Beijing's national convention center, including the Olympics media center.
 I.B.M. is installing a similar system in Beijing that should be ready before the Olympics and will analyze and catalog people and behavior.
 Julie Donahue, I.B.M.'s vice president for security and privacy services, told a technology news service in early December that by next summer I.B.M. would install in Beijing its newly developed Smart Surveillance System, a powerful network that links large numbers of video cameras. Company officials declined repeated requests to answer questions about the system or discuss Ms. Donahue's remarks.
 United Technologies flew three engineers from its Lenel security subsidiary in Rochester to Guangzhou, the biggest metropolis in southeastern China, to customize a 2,000-camera network in a single large neighborhood, the first step toward a citywide network of 250,000 cameras to be installed before the Asian Games in 2010. The company is also seeking contracts to build that network.
 Critics argue that all these programs violate the spirit, if not the letter, of the American law written in response to the military crackdown at Tiananmen Square in 1989.
 The Commerce Department, charged with developing regulations that put the law in effect, stands by its rules. The department bars exports whose sole use is law enforcement, like equipment for detecting fingerprints at crime scenes. But video systems are allowed if they are ''industrial or civilian intrusion alarm, traffic or industrial movement control or counting systems,'' according to the regulations.
 Since multinationals increasingly manufacture some security systems in China, export rules are irrelevant. But the post-Tiananmen law also prohibits companies from using American security technology anywhere in the world to supply China with banned products. 
 The companies note that the products they provide are not banned by the government. Honeywell said that it complies with the letter and spirit of the laws in every country where it operates. G.E. said it had reviewed the VisioWave sale to China and believed that it has complied fully with both the letter and spirit of the law.
 United Technologies said that the equipment it is selling for Guangzhou is not banned under the legislation. I.B.M. said only that it complies with American regulations.
 James Mulvenon is the director of the Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis, a government contractor in Washington that does classified analyses on overseas military and intelligence programs. He said the companies' participation in Chinese surveillance ''violates the spirit of the Tiananmen legislation.'' 
 Representative Tom Lantos, Democrat of California who is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said United States companies ''obviously don't know the meaning of decency if they're seeking out ways to wriggle through the loopholes in our laws to capitalize on the market opportunities presented by the Olympics.'' 
 He added that his committee would continue its investigation into what he sees as American corporate assistance for political repression.
 Mr. Mulvenon said that the pace of technological change means that products with mainly civilian applications, like management computer systems with powerful video surveillance features, had blurred the distinction between law enforcement and civilian technologies. But he said the Commerce Department tended to define narrowly the technologies that qualify as crime control and prevention under the Tiananmen legislation.
 The Commerce Department official said the department's Bureau of Industry and Security had prevented the export of a ''medium-tech'' product to China for the Olympics that was clearly intended for law enforcement use. The official declined to identify the product and insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to speak for the department.
 Olympics security spending increased rapidly this year, after China's little-noticed decision last winter to create a nationwide ''safe cities'' program, establishing surveillance camera networks in more than 600 cities. 
 A table in the security ministry's magazine suggested the number of surveillance cameras needed in each community, based on its size, international prominence and location -- from 250,000 to 300,000 cameras in metropolises like Beijing and Shanghai to 1,000 to 5,000 cameras for small towns and rural counties.
 London already has as many as 500,000 cameras, if the count includes video systems at banks, supermarkets and other commercial locations. But government agencies in London have installed smaller, separate systems of a few hundred cameras at a time, in contrast with the highly integrated approach of the Chinese government. 
 By comparison, in New York City, the police are trying to assemble a network of 3,000 public and private cameras below Canal Street to discourage terrorism in Lower Manhattan; they are starting with 100 cameras.
 Even China lacks enough security guards to watch the video feeds from so many cameras. So authorities have been shopping for foreign computer systems that automatically analyze the information, security executives said.
 At this year's security equipment convention -- in Shenzhen, the center of China's security industry -- multinationals competed with Chinese companies to offer high-tech products, as police officials from around the country browsed the booths.
 Part of the sales pitches from American companies is that their systems can protect the local police in incidents of alleged police abuse. When a car in Beijing hit an elderly foreign tourist, the police used Honeywell systems to check a nearby street camera and discovered that the tourist had been jaywalking, said He Han, a Honeywell engineer who had worked on the system.
 ''We were one of the first to introduce foreign advanced products and management practices,'' Mr. He said. ''We have the biggest user network in China.''
 If American companies do not sell security systems here, Chinese companies will; the Shenzhen conference drew a handful of American companies, but about 800 of the nearly 1,000 exhibitors were Chinese -- and they were aggressively pursuing contracts.
 The young engineers in jacket and tie at the American booths stood in sharp contrast, for example, to a Chinese company's booth with a half-dozen young women in black patent-leather boots and metallic silver micro-mini dresses.
 China is likely to emerge from the Olympics with remarkable surveillance capabilities, said Mr. Vickers, the former Hong Kong police official. 
 ''They are certainly getting the best stuff,'' he added. ''One, because money talks, and second, because whatever the diplomatic issues, the U.S. wants to supply the Olympics.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Security cameras displayed in Shenzhen, China. The Chinese authorities have shopped for systems to analyze video feeds. (pg.C1)
 A sales representative explained the features of security equipment at a convention last month in Shenzhen, China. The convention drew multinationals as well as Chinese companies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIMOTHY O'ROURKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C5) GRAPH: Filming the Street China's Ministry of Public Security recently published a list suggesting how many government surveillance cameras are needed in cities across China. Locations would include government offices, banks, schools, hospitals, big supermarkets, hotels, Internet bars, places of religious worship and large roads. (SOURCE: CHINA PUBLIC SECURITY QUYUARTERLY, MINISTRY OF PUBLIC SECURITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (77%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); POLICE FORCES (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); RELIGION (61%); TERRORISM (53%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



641 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: Shame of Imported Labor In Kurdish North of Iraq

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KAMBER

DATELINE: SULAIMANIYA, Iraq 

 BODY:
The tiny Filipino woman's hands trembled. She was in hiding, fearing capture at any moment. 
 She and a friend had come to Iraq's semi-autonomous Kurdish north as guest workers six months earlier. Now they worried they would be forcibly returned to Erbil, where they had been locked in a house for a month and made to work for free, they said, after their passports, cellphones and plane tickets were taken away. 
 The two had escaped by begging their captor to let them attend church, then making contact with other Filipino workers, who spirited them away.
 Thousands of foreign workers have come to the Kurdish districts in the last three years, a huge turnaround for a place that had hardly any before, making it one of the fastest growing Middle Eastern destinations for the world's impoverished. They come from Ethiopia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Bangladesh and Somalia, supporting an economic boom here that is transforming Kurdish society. 
 But nearly all foreign workers interviewed over a two-week period here said they had been deceived by unscrupulous agents who arrange the journeys. Unable to communicate, some arrive not knowing what country they are in. Once here, their passports are seized by their employment agencies, and they are unable to go home. 
 Some are satisfied with their decision to come here, but agents' fees are high, often as much as two years' wages. To come up with the money, many borrow at high interest rates and find that their wages are equal only to the interest. In essence, they say, they end up working for free.
 While war rages to the south, mile after mile of new buildings are rising here, and wages for Kurds have risen sevenfold since 2003. Billions of dollars in investment are flowing in from Turkey and the United States, and large-scale oil exploration has just begun.
 For the Kurds -- guest workers themselves in Europe for generations -- the newly arrived Asians and Africans are met with ambivalence. There are too few Kurds to take all the low-paying menial jobs, and many are uncomfortable hiring local Arabs, given the longstanding animosity between the groups.
 Foreign women are integral to another transformation. As in some wealthy Persian Gulf states, the traditional Kurdish lifestyle is adopting some European ways: the rich and powerful want live-in maids, nightclubs need non-Muslim women to serve alcohol and men want intimate relationships before marriage -- all roles largely forbidden for Kurdish women. 
 Importing such workers relies on a far-reaching network of recruiters in poor countries, and for most of the 150 Bangladeshis cleaning the streets here, the journey to Kurdistan began at 5 Bonany Road in Dhaka, Bangladesh, the headquarters of the Travel Mix agency. 
 ''They said at the agency that I would make $300 a month and work as a waiter in a restaurant,'' said Tufazil Hussan. He said that he took out a $3,000 loan with monthly interest of $150 to pay the agency, but that upon his arrival his passport was taken and he was put to work sweeping the streets seven days a week for $155 a month. 
 Optimistic, Mr. Hussan, 30, thinks he will soon get a better-paying job; other Bangladeshis say he will probably sweep the streets until the end of his three-year contract, then go home with little or nothing.
 His supervisor, Abdul Khadar, is not much better off. A farmer from Tangai, Bangladesh, he makes $185 a month. Mr. Khadar said he borrowed $4,000 to pay Travel Mix. He estimates that for his first two years in Kurdistan, he will work only to pay off his loan. 
 For the city, the guest workers fill a manpower shortage while saving money. ''We need 1,500 cleaners; we have 350,'' said Razgar Ahmed Hussein, Sulaimaniya's director of cleaning operations. ''I never wanted to bring foreign workers to this city, but we had no other option. Kurds do not want the jobs.''
 The city pays the local Lion Gate agency $325 per month for each cleaner. ''The company takes more than half of that,'' Mr. Hussein said. ''It's not a fair arrangement. Groups of Bangladeshis have tried to run away to Turkey. If you pay them what they need, they won't run away. Three months ago the situation was so bad, they were living in a garage, their food was so little. They were begging for money in the street.''
 Lion Gate officials said conditions had never been bad and were getting better. ''We pay for the workers' housing, food, electricity and plane tickets,'' said Nizar Mustafa Chawjwan, director of the company's Sulaimaniya office. ''We take care of the workers' health, and we have brought a cook from Bangladesh for them.''
 As for allegations that Lion Gate business partners in Bangladesh cheated workers, Mr. Chawjwan said, ''If Bangladeshi agents take money from them, we don't know anything about the deals they make over there.''
 Nisha Varia, an investigator with Human Rights Watch, said the combination of unscrupulous brokers in the workers' home countries and labor practices in Kurdistan left the workers with few options. 
 ''Each side denies that it knows what other is doing,'' she said. ''In reality, they are much more interconnected than that. They are dong business together, and that leads to these recruiting fees and debts, and puts the workers at risk of forced labor.''
 Mr. Chawjwan argued that the wages workers got were higher than those in the Persian Gulf, and that his company had good reason to hold the workers' passports. ''We keep the passports to stop them from running away to Turkey,'' he said. ''We spend a lot of money to bring each one here.''
 But Ms. Varia rejected that argument. ''It is a violation of international law to take someone's passport,'' she said. ''You don't own a person because they signed a contract.''
 Guest workers are a new phenomenon here, and government workers acknowledge that there is no agency to monitor their labor conditions.
 An agent who has brought in hundreds of Asian and African women in their teens and early 20s said that some had complained of unwanted sexual advances. She told of one client who expressed interest in an exceptionally beautiful young Ethiopian woman, offering extra money for her. He disappeared with the woman for several months, then inexplicably sent her home at his own expense. ''I suspect he got her pregnant,'' the agency manager said, insisting on anonymity.
 Another Filipino, who gave her name only as Kikay for fear of retribution from her employer, said she and other young women came expecting $600 a month to work in restaurants in Kurdistan, which they were told was near Greece.
 ''In the Philippines, they said we get the contract in Dubai, then in Dubai the agent said the contract is at the airport,'' she said. ''At the airport, they grab our luggage and push it through the X-ray machine, then they start shouting at us, 'Go, go, your contract in Kurdistan.' We are confused. We don't know what to do.''
 In Sulaimaniya, Kikay said, an agent from the Qadamkher employment agency met them at the airport. He was carrying a gun and was friendly with the police and immigration officials. 
 ''They took our passports and then drove us to a house,'' she said. ''We couldn't understand what they were saying. We were very scared.'' Once there, Kikay said, the women were presented with a contract paying them $200 a month to work in a hotel. 
 If the women wanted to leave, they say now, they had to pay $2,000 to get their passports back. Cold and hungry, clad only in T-shirts in the winter chill, they signed the contract. As with the Bangladeshis, Kikay says, her wages are about equal to the interest on the loans she took out to come to the region, which she was surprised to learn is part of Iraq. 
 The local Qadamkher agency rejected allegations that workers were brought here without their knowledge or consent. But several of their contracts specified that foreign workers must pay $100 to $350 for every month left on the contracts if they break them. Most contracts run two or three years.
 Sana Muhammad, a Qadamkher employee, said business was growing rapidly. The agency collects a one-time fee of $2,500 from Kurdish families for each domestic worker. 
 ''We have requests for 10 Indonesian girls right now that we're trying to fill,'' she added. ''We have Ethiopian girls available but clients don't want them. They say their faces are ugly -- the black skin is unfamiliar.'' (Similarly, the city cleaning supervisor said the Bangladeshi cleaners had to be moved away from the market because they were being racially harassed.)
 Eva Enju is one of the Indonesian women in demand here. This fall, shortly after her 18th birthday, she arrived here believing she had landed in Turkey. She makes $150 a month and has had the good luck to be placed as a maid with Latifah Noori, a kind and funny 75-year-old who is partly paralyzed. 
 ''I came here so that I could save money to buy a house,'' Ms. Enju explained.
 Ms. Noori says Ms. Enju has been a godsend, working around the clock without complaint. ''Enju has no one here,'' she said. ''She has just me to serve.''
 But Kikay's situation is less amicable. ''My manager has my passport and identification,'' she said. ''Do you think they will let me leave at the airport without it?'' If not, she said, ''then I am trapped, and there is no future for me here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM ETHIOPIA: Yobdar Abu, 23, arrived in the Kurdish region in October via Dubai, having been told she was headed for Turkey.
FROM INDONESIA Eva Enju, left, is among the more fortunate workers, having been assigned to Latifah Noori, 75, who is kindly.
 FROM BANGLADESH Tufazil Hussan, a street sweeper, shares a workers' dormitory with 50 men. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: IN SULAIMANIYA Workers say their passports were taken. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (90%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); TRAVEL TICKETS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (71%) PHILIPPINES (94%); BANGLADESH (94%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); GULF STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



642 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: With Bold Museum, a Virginia City Aims for Visibility

BYLINE: By PAMELA J. PODGER

DATELINE: ROANOKE, Va. 

 BODY:
Since the 1980s, this old railroad and manufacturing city has been trying to transform itself into a magnet for white-collar families, who expect amenities like the ballet and symphonies.
 The downtown area has been revitalized, and wine bars, boutiques and condominiums have replaced empty storefronts.
 The latest addition is the new $66 million Art Museum of Western Virginia, one of the most expensive and controversial projects in the city's history. The museum's avant-garde architecture is a gamble intended to put Roanoke on the nation's cultural map. 
 Nationwide, other mid-size cities, including Milwaukee and Biloxi, Miss., hope similarly bold museums will revitalize their downtowns, replicating the success of the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain.
 ''Bilbao really opened people's eye because it was visible on the worldwide stage,'' said Jim Hackney, an Atlanta fund-raiser for new museums. 
 The Roanoke museum's zinc, glass and steel spires rise like an abstract sculpture as workers prepare for an opening next November. 
 Designed by the Los Angeles architect Randall Stout, a protege of Frank Gehry, the museum's architecture contrasts with the historic red-brick downtown with its farmers market, refurbished neon signs and faded billboards for powder-milk biscuits. 
 Detractors liken its architecture to the ''wreck of the Flying Nun'' or the crash of a flying saucer, a mishmash of jutting angles. They express fears of operating shortfalls if the museum fails to draw the projected 500 visitors a day. But many Roanoke leaders are betting that the museum will be an economic engine for this city of 92,500, strengthening its arts community and increasing tourism.
 Pam Floyd, who recently opened a gallery in a former tattoo parlor, said the 82,000-square-foot museum, first proposed in 1999 to replace a smaller museum, is itself a work of art. ''We knew that was going in across the street,'' Ms. Floyd said. ''I wanted to be downtown when the arts are a growing presence.''
 Mayor Nelson Harris predicts that the new museum will draw people for repeated visits to this city, roughly halfway between Washington and Charlotte, N.C.
 Georganne Bingham, the museum's executive director, wants to erase the perception that wealthy patrons foisted the museum on the city. She said modest admission fees of $7 to $9, school programs and family nights would attract local residents to the museum's 19th- and 20th-century American art and a special exhibit of Rembrandt paintings and etchings. 
 ''Art museums are usually considered elitist,'' Ms. Bingham said, ''but we're determined to break the feeling.'' 
 Mr. Stout, the architect, sees the museum as reflecting Appalachia's undulating hills, cascading waterfalls and linear rail lines. He said he thought it could contribute to the city's revival. 
 ''I hate to think one building takes the heat for transforming an entire city,'' he said, ''but I think it's a contributing factor to the cultural richness of the city.'' 
 Not everyone agrees. 
 ''It looks kind of weird,'' said Brenda Gooden, a payroll clerk and lifelong resident of Roanoke. ''And there's not much else here in Roanoke, so I doubt it'll be that much of a draw.''
 Michelle Bennett, who has worked for several local arts organizations, said many residents feared that the museum's capital campaign had drained Roanoke's art patrons, leaving little money for the building's operations and other causes. 
 ''The money is so tight now,'' said Miki Overcast, a gallery owner. ''I wonder what will happen when they have to pay the heating and air-conditioning bills.'' 
 John Reburn, whose gift shop is next to the new museum, said sentiment softened this summer as the building took shape.
 ''Because of my location, I get all of the nay-sayers and the happy museum people,'' Mr. Reburn said. ''In the last few months, even the locals who were grumpy stare at it. It's like children: you have to hand it to them before they appreciate the gift.''
 The Milwaukee Museum of Art gained attention after a new pavilion designed by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava opened in May 2001. 
 Attendance surged initially, to nearly 540,000 in 2002 from 165,000 in 2000, before dropping to about 300,000 annually in recent years. 
 Russell Bowman, the museum's former director, said the $125 million pavilion helped residents see their working-class city in a more cosmopolitan light. But Mr. Bowman said he was not sure a building alone could transform a city into a tourist destination.
 Curiosity seekers may come once, he said, but the trick is attracting repeat visitors.
 ''Certainly, the challenge is to keep the interest alive through programs, exhibitions and events,'' Mr. Bowman said.
 Private donations are covering most of the cost of Roanoke's new museum. Officials said $51 million of the project's $66 million cost had been raised from about 175 arts patrons. A $3 million endowment for operations has also been acquired. City, state and federal governments are providing $12 million. The city also donated the museum's one-acre site, valued at $1.1 million. 
 Nicholas F. Taubman, a Roanoke native who is the United States ambassador to Romania, and his wife, Jenny, who heads the museum's capital campaign, contributed $25 million. 
 ''I think the museum will be a hinge on which the economic future of downtown Roanoke will swing, as well as the region,'' Mr. Taubman said. ''It's just the right thing in the right place.''
 Mr. Hackney, the Atlanta fund-raiser, said residents would embrace the new museum as it progressed from blueprints to steel beams. ''People hated the Eiffel Tower when it first went up, and now it is cherished,'' he said. ''I'm predicting the same turnaround in sentiment for Roanoke.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The new $66 million Art Museum of Western Virginia, designed by Randall Stout and shown above, is scheduled to open in November in Roanoke, Va. City boosters have high hopes for it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RANDALL STOUT ARCHITECTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); FAMILY (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); HISTORY (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); SCULPTURE (76%); PAINTING (76%); RETAILERS (72%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); TOURISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROANOKE, VA, USA (94%); BILOXI, MS, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (66%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (90%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



643 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2551 words

HEADLINE: Beijing's Olympic Quest: Turn Smoggy Sky Blue

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; Zhang Jing, Ma Yi and Huang Yuanxi contributed research.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Every day, monitoring stations across the city measure air pollution to determine if the skies above this national capital can officially be designated blue. It is not an act of whimsy: with Beijing preparing to play host to the 2008 Olympic Games, the official Blue Sky ratings are the city's own measuring stick for how well it is cleaning up its polluted air.
 Thursday did not bring good news. The gray, acrid skies rated an eye-reddening 421 on a scale of 500, with 500 being the worst. Friday rated 500. Both days far exceeded pollution levels deemed safe by the World Health Organization. In Beijing, officials warned residents to stay indoors until Saturday, but residents here are accustomed to breathing foul air. One man flew a kite in Tiananmen Square.
 For Beijing officials, Thursday was especially depressing because the city was hoping to celebrate an environmental victory. In recent years, Beijing has steadily increased its Blue Sky days. The city needs one more, defined as scoring below 101, to reach its goal of 245 Blue Sky days this year. These improving ratings are how Beijing hopes to reassure the world that Olympic athletes will not be gasping for breath next August. 
 ''We're definitely hoping for the best,'' said Jon Kolb, a member of the Canadian Olympic Committee, ''but preparing for the worst.''
 For the world's Olympians, Beijing's air is a performance issue. The concern is that respiratory problems could impede athletic performance and prevent records from being broken. For the city's estimated 12 million residents, pollution is an inescapable health and quality-of-life issue. Skepticism about the validity of the Blue Sky ratings is common. Moreover, the concern is whether the city can clean itself up long after the Games are over. 
 Beijing has long ranked as one of the world's most polluted cities. To win the Games, Beijing promised a ''Green Olympics'' and undertook environmental initiatives now considered models for the rest of the country. But greening Beijing has not meant slowing it down. Officials also have encouraged an astonishing urbanization boom that has made environmental gains seem modest, if not illusory. 
 Beijing is like an athlete trying to get into shape by walking on a treadmill yet eating double cheeseburgers at the same time. Polluting factories have been moved or closed. But auto emissions are rising as the city adds up to 1,200 new cars and trucks every day. Dirty, coal-burning furnaces have been replaced, lowering the city's sulfur dioxide emissions. But fine-particle pollution has been exacerbated by a staggering citywide construction binge that shows no signs of letting up.
 China's unsolved riddle is how to reconcile fast economic growth with environmental protection. But Beijing's Olympic deadline means the city needs an immediate answer. The ruling Communist Party envisions the Games as a public relations showcase and is leaving no detail untended. Scientists are cross-breeding chrysanthemums to ensure that flowers bloom in August.
 Now Beijing is also going to try to manipulate air quality. For months, scientists have treated the city like a laboratory, testing wind patterns and atmospheric structure, while pinpointing local and regional pollution sources. Olympics contingency plans have been approved for Beijing and surrounding provinces. Details are not public, but officials have discussed shutting down factories and restricting traffic during the Games. 
 ''We are determined to ensure that the air conditions meet the necessary standards in August 2008,'' Liu Qi, president of the Beijing Organizing Committee for the Games, told the International Olympic Committee's executive board this month.
 Beijing residents overwhelmingly support the Games and take for granted that officials will do what is necessary to ensure clean air. Last August, the city removed a million cars from roads during a four-day test intended to gauge pollution and traffic. But people also know that any emergency measures have a limited shelf life.
 ''Yes, I heard about it,'' said an engineer at one factory that may temporarily be shut down. He refused to identify himself because he was criticizing government policy. ''It is like you invite some guests to your home, and hide all your children underneath the bed to make the house look nicer. If all the polluting factories are shut down for the Olympics, there will be a major pollution outbreak afterward when all the factories restart, right?''
 Beijing officials say the Olympics will have a lasting and positive environmental legacy on the city. International Olympic Committee officials acknowledge that air quality remains a problem, but they say the air would be far worse without improvements made for the Games. ''The general trend is improvement,'' said Simon Balderstone, an environmental adviser for the I.O.C.
 But pollution is expected to remain a major, long-term challenge as Beijing's population may eventually exceed 20 million people. Scientists also say the city will never be able to clean itself up if surrounding industrial provinces are not cleaned up, too. 
 Blue skies, in other words, will remain a challenge.
 Growth Offsets Gains
 In July 2001, Beijing won the right to serve as the host of the 2008 Games, a victory that carried a touch of vindication. Eight years earlier, the International Olympic Committee had rejected Beijing's first bid for a variety of reasons, including the city's polluted environment. 
 This time, Beijing organizers promised a ''Green Olympics.''
 ''Beijing has come a long way since its last bid in 1993,'' said Wang Wei, a senior Beijing Olympics official, speaking at the city's final Olympic presentation in Moscow in 2001. ''The city has taken giant steps to fight pollution caused by industrialization and economic growth.''
 Beijing's environmental program had begun in 1997 and became the centerpiece of the city's Olympic environmental commitments. Urban sewage treatment has doubled since 2001. Use of natural gas has jumped 38-fold as city officials have converted thousands of dirty coal-fired furnaces and boilers. Factories have been shut down or relocated to the suburbs. Millions of trees have been planted.
 ''For many years, the city had few environmental rules,'' said Mr. Balderstone, the I.O.C. environmental adviser, who regularly consults with Beijing officials. ''It's like they are playing catch-up on a lot of these measures.''
 But Beijing's Olympic bid also intensified a stunning urban boom. Since 2000, Beijing's gross domestic product has jumped 144 percent, according to Beijing Olympic officials. New office buildings and apartment towers seem to rise every week. More than 1.7 billion square feet of new construction has been started since 2002, most of it unrelated to the Olympics. 
 Cleaner Coal, but More of It
 The emerging cityscape is often dazzling, but also energy intensive and polluting. Beijing now requires factories and power plants to burn cleaner, low-sulfur coal, but it had also hoped to reduce overall coal consumption in the years before the Olympics. Instead, the city's coal consumption peaked at 30 million tons last year. Beijing also has only one office tower that qualifies under international and national energy efficiency standards as a green building. Construction, meanwhile, is expected to continue at a rapid pace.
 ''I think there will be another 20 to 30 years of urbanization,'' said Wu Weijia, a professor at Tsinghua University's Institute of Urban Studies. ''The scale of construction in Beijing will not slow down after the Olympics.''
 Meanwhile, an explosion of car ownership has wrought gridlocked traffic and a halo of auto fumes. Beijing now has more than three million vehicles and is adding more than 400,000 new cars and trucks each year. The city's reliance on cars and trucks leaves its air with few reprieves. As in other Chinese cities, heavy trucks can only enter at night. Diesel exhaust is so severe that Beijing's levels of PM 2.5, a tiny particulate deemed potentially harmful to health, is highest between midnight and 3 a.m., according to one survey. 
 Beijing is fighting auto pollution by instituting China's highest vehicle emissions standards. Nearly 79,000 new taxis with lower emissions have replaced older, outdated models. But Beijing has been unwilling to discourage private car ownership by instituting exorbitant fees as Shanghai has done. Depending on the car, license plates in Shanghai can cost as much as $7,000; as a result, Shanghai adds about one-fourth as many cars per year as Beijing.
 Beijing's problems are compounded because its public transportation system was neglected for years. Now, the city is expanding subway lines and finishing a rail line from the airport to downtown, but car ownership is expected to keep rising.
 ''If you discourage people from having a car, the public transportation system would be overburdened,'' said Mr. Wu, the Tsinghua professor.
 Taking Pollution's Measure
 Mr. Kolb, the Canadian Olympic official, spent much of August in Beijing trying to answer the question hanging over the city as the Games approach: Has air quality actually improved?
 An environmental physiologist, Mr. Kolb visited several stadiums, and sneaked into a few others, to measure pollution with a small monitoring device. On Aug. 5, his measurement of fine particles pollution, or PM 10, reached 200, roughly four times above the level deemed safe by the World Health Organization.
 ''We're worried,'' Mr. Kolb said. Of Beijing air pollution, he added: ''There's no doubt about it. It's off the charts.''
 A decade ago, Beijing introduced the Blue Sky program to measure sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and PM 10. Under the system, monitors take regular readings of each pollutant and then calculate a 24-hour average for each. The daily Blue Sky rating is determined by whichever pollutant has the highest 24-hour average. 
 For China's authoritarian government, the system represented a breakthrough. But it is less stringent than air-quality indexes in the United States. Indeed, a day that rates ''good'' in Beijing would usually be rated polluted in the United States. 
 In 1998, Beijing recorded only 100 Blue Sky days. Each ensuing year, the city has improved the number until reaching the current 244 and pending. Cleaner coal has helped reduce sulfur dioxide by 25 percent since 2001. Nitrogen dioxide is also down. But Beijing's biggest problem is PM 10 and other particulates, which are attributed to construction, industry and cars.
 Average daily levels of PM 10 exceed national and W.H.O. standards. In 2004, the concentration of airborne particulates in Beijing equaled that of New York, Los Angeles, Washington, Chicago and Atlanta combined, according to the United States Embassy in Beijing. Earlier this year, a report by the United Nations Environment Program concluded that ''air pollution is still the single largest environmental and public health issue affecting the city.''
 ''Particularly worrying are the levels of small particulate matter (PM 10) in the atmosphere, which is severely deleterious to public health,'' the report stated. 
 The Blue Sky system sets a maximum rating of 500, meaning that on the worst days the actual pollution level could be even higher. ''Good'' air in Beijing is any Blue Sky rating below 101. But even good air is often not very good; this year, Beijing has had 65 days that rated between 95 and 100. That bulge just inside the break point has attracted attention on Web sites and even at one foreign embassy, which compiled a statistical analysis casting doubt on the Blue Sky results, though the embassy's officials refuse to discuss the findings.
 Du Shaozhong, deputy director of Beijing's Environmental Protection Bureau, said the ratings were not manipulated. ''People used to ask me if the ratings are scientific, or if we are playing any tricks,'' Mr. Du said. ''But this is most advanced equipment in the world.''
 Mr. Kolb said Olympic athletes were worried about ozone, which can inflame the respiratory tract and make it more difficult to breathe. But Beijing's monitoring system does not measure ozone, nor does it measure the finer particulates known as PM 2.5.
 This year, a team of Chinese and American scientists analyzed air quality issues for the Olympics and found that Beijing's daily concentrations of PM 2.5 rated anywhere from 50 percent to 200 percent higher than American standards. Their study, published in the journal Atmospheric Environment, also found that ozone regularly exceeded levels deemed safe by American standards. 
 Studies are under way to assess the health impact of pollution in Beijing. One 2003 study warned that air pollution could be a major contributor to premature deaths related to chronic pulmonary disease, especially in the winter. Another study showed that visits to hospital emergency rooms rose on days with higher pollution levels. 
 On a recent afternoon at Beijing Hospital, Dr. Li Yi, a respiratory specialist, said he now saw 50 patients a day for respiratory problems compared with about half that a decade ago. He said asthma cases had increased sharply, as had the number of patients with nonsmoking-related lung cancer.
 ''You can't say that pollution is the only reason,'' Dr. Li said. ''But nonsmoking-related lung cancer is now increasing more quickly.''
 Beyond the Olympics
 In August, Beijing marked the one-year countdown to the Games with a celebration at Tiananmen Square and several test competitions at different sites. Jacques Rogge, president of the I.O.C., applauded Beijing's preparations, but also cautioned that pollution might force the postponement of some endurance sports. 
 Hu Fei, director of the Institute of Atmosphere Physics in Beijing, said any concern was misplaced. ''Don't worry about the Olympics,'' Mr. Hu said, expressing confidence that contingency plans would produce clean air for the Games. ''We need to be concerned about the long term.''
 Mr. Hu said finding a long-term fix is difficult because of Beijing's geography. Surrounded by mountains on three sides, Beijing depends on strong winds to disperse pollution. Yet winds also draw pollution into the city. The study in Atmospheric Environment estimated that as much as 60 percent of ozone detected at the National Stadium could be traced to outside provinces.
 ''Beijing is a pollution source itself, and it is surrounded by other pollution sources,'' Mr. Hu said. ''When you have wind, it brings in pollution from other sources. When you don't have wind, the local pollution cannot disperse.''
 Xu Jianping, 55, a business consultant, does not need to be told that Beijing is overrun with cars and construction. He is an avid in-line skater who enjoyed skating to work until pollution left him spitting out black phlegm. He went online and ordered a gas mask.
 ''But I don't want to wear it,'' said Mr. Xu, fearing his mask would be misinterpreted as a protest against the Olympics. ''It would hurt China's image.''
 So until the Games are over, Mr. Xu is taking the bus to the office. He plans to vacation outside the city during the Games. Then, when life in Beijing returns to normal, he plans to resume skating to work -- with his mask, if necessary.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Beijing residents in Tiananmen Square, used to pea-soup smog, ignored a citywide stay-indoors warning on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ODED BALILTY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
ADDED CARS, LOST HORIZONS: The rush-hour haze in western Beijing one morning this month. An additional 1,200 cars and trucks roll into Beijing every day.
 BUILDING VERSUS BREATHING: As National Stadium rises for the Olympics, top, its construction adds to the level of harmful particulates in the air. Stadiums measured by an Olympic official had four times the safe level of particulates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARRON KUO-DEEMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A6) CHART: BEIJING'S OFFICIAL BLUE SKY COUNT: China has pledged to reduce Beijing's air pollution in time for the 2008 Summer Olympics. Each year since 1998, the city has steadily increased its number of Blue Sky days, days of acceptably low pollution, based on levels of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and PM 10. But critics complain that the rating does not reflect the reality of a city that, last year, recorded an average sulfur dioxide concentration 10 times that of Los Angeles. (SOURCES: China's State Environmental Protection Administration, Beijing Environmental Protection Bureau, South Coast Air Quality Management District) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); AIR QUALITY INSTRUMENTS (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); PARTICULATE MATTER (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); URBANIZATION (73%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (73%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); WALKING & JOGGING (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (55%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



644 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1088 words

PERSON: G. D.Warrington 

HEADLINE: G. D.Warrington, 55, Transit Executive, Dies

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
George D. Warrington, the passenger rail executive who ushered in the Acela high-speed service when he headed Amtrak and the double-decker cars when he was chief executive of New Jersey Transit, died Monday at his home in Mendham, N.J. He was 55. 
 The cause was pancreatic cancer, said a New Jersey Transit spokeswoman, Lynn Bowersox. 
 During more than 30 years in public transportation, Mr. Warrington shaped the day-to-day experience of millions of commuters in the heavily traveled northeastern United States. His influence can be felt particularly in New Jersey, where, as executive director of New Jersey Transit from 2002 until this year, he championed major projects like the Secaucus Junction station, the Midtown Direct line to Montclair, the Seventh Avenue concourse in Pennsylvania Station and the renovation of the cramped, dreary train station in Trenton. 
 New Jersey Transit greatly expanded under Mr. Warrington, and he saw to it that riders and employees had a say concerning features like seat upholstery and lighting on the new trains. By adding double-decker cars in 2006, he was able to increase capacity by 15 to 20 percent without forcing riders to sit three abreast, as they still must in the older cars. 
 In addition to holding the top positions at Amtrak and New Jersey Transit, Mr. Warrington was from 1992 to 1994 the executive director of the Delaware River Port Authority and its rail system, known as Patco, which operate the bridges and train lines connecting Philadelphia and Camden. 
 Former colleagues said Mr. Warrington thought that well-kept, safe and inviting passenger trains could be an engine of growth for the broader economy. This, he said, justified major expenditures of public money, a position that put him in conflict with politicians who opposed appropriations for Amtrak. 
 Mr. Warrington's toughest battles were fought at Amtrak, a private corporation whose stock is primarily held by the federal government. He joined it in 1994 as head of its Northeast Corridor unit, the strongest of its three regional divisions. He was named acting president of Amtrak in December 1997, when the previous president, Thomas M. Downs, resigned after months of labor unrest and political turmoil. 
 Amtrak had by then become a prime battleground in the partisan tax-and-spending wars in Washington. One month before Mr. Warrington was named acting president, the Republican Congress made $2.3 billion in financial aid for Amtrak contingent on a boardroom overhaul; previously, all nine board members had been appointed solely by President Clinton. 
 That year Congress also enacted a mandate that Amtrak become financially self-sufficient by the end of 2002, a requirement suggesting that big cutbacks were in store. 
 Mr. Warrington did not deny that Amtrak had major financial problems, but he argued that starving the railway would only make things worse. Instead, he began a big expansion, adding new services and bolstering existing ones. He said the improvements would generate more revenue over time, eventually helping Amtrak grow its way out of its chronic deficits. 
 The addition of the Acela high-speed trains was a centerpiece of this effort. 
 ''We have made a conscious decision that Amtrak had a long history of expecting others to bail us out,'' Mr. Warrington said in an interview with The New York Times in 2001. ''Frankly, I made a decision that that's not the way we're doing business any more.'' 
 Over all, Mr. Warrington's expansion did succeed in increasing revenue and reversing a long decline in ridership, but it did not make Amtrak self-sufficient. The 2002 deadline came and went with the railway still operating at a deficit. 
 Mr. Warrington said it had been unrealistic to expect Amtrak to turn a profit. 
 ''There is not a transit system in the world that can operate profitably in the commercial sense,'' he said in an interview with The Times in 2002. ''The underlying economics of transit service require a public investment.''
 Martin E. Robins, a longtime colleague, said he thought that Mr. Warrington had come by his views as a young man when, armed with a master's degree in public administration from Syracuse University, he went to work for the New Jersey Department of Transportation. 
 It was 1975 and a low point for passenger rail service in the state. New Jersey Transit did not yet exist, and the state was paying three private railways to operate commuter services under contract. The system was a huge drag on the regional economy, Mr. Robins said. Neglected for years, the crumbling private railroads were constantly asking for more state money, eventually went bankrupt and provided poor service. 
 Mr. Robins, now director of the Voorhees Transportation Policy Institute at Rutgers, recalled going to a public hearing with Mr. Warrington where more than a thousand angry commuters booed and hissed the officials. 
 Not long after that, the state began the long process of taking over passenger service from the three private railways, creating New Jersey Transit to operate a single system. 
 Mr. Warrington, who by then had caught the eye of the state transportation commissioner, Louis Gambaccini, traveled the state in 1979 to drum up support for a $450 million bond issue. Three previous attempts to raise what was then a huge sum had failed, Mr. Robins said, but that one succeeded.
 ''George really cut his teeth on the efforts to change a hopeless, broken-down system into something that commuters really could appreciate,'' Mr. Robins said. He served as New Jersey Transit's first executive director in 1980 and made Mr. Warrington his deputy. 
 George David Warrington was born in Bayonne, N.J., in 1952 and grew up in Ridgefield Park. He earned an undergraduate degree in journalism at Syracuse University and a master's degree at its Maxwell School of social science. 
 In early 2002 he stepped down as Amtrak chief to lead New Jersey Transit. By then the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center had forced the closure of PATH train service between Newark and Lower Manhattan, and Mr. Warrington began many projects intended to add capacity and ease the overcrowding on New Jersey Transit's lines into Midtown. 
 In February, before learning that he had cancer, Mr. Warrington left New Jersey Transit to found a strategic consulting firm, Warrington Fox Shuffler. 
 He is survived by his wife, Hope; his son, David; his stepdaughters, Brittany Wood and Kendall Wood; and a brother, Marc. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George D. Warrington (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, 2005) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); TRAINS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); POLITICS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); RESIGNATIONS (67%); HARBORS & PORTS (66%); CANCER (57%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (57%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%)

BILL CLINTON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

CATEGORY: Labor

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



645 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Harvard's Aid To Middle Class Pressures Rivals

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Just days after Harvard University announced this month that it would significantly expand financial aid to students from families earning as much as $180,000 a year, William G. Durden, president of Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa., got a query from a student's father, asking whether the college would follow Harvard's lead.
 ''He even said, 'I know this costs a lot of money, but you should do it anyway,' '' Dr. Durden said. The president replied that Dickinson, a small liberal arts college where the full annual cost of tuition, fees, room and board nears $45,000, did not have the money to match Harvard's largess.
 Because of Harvard, Dr. Durden said ruefully in recalling the exchange, ''a lot of us are going to be under huge pressure to do these things that we just can't do.'' 
 By substantially discounting costs for all but the very wealthiest students, Harvard shook up the landscape of college pricing. Like Dr. Durden, officials of other colleges say its move will create intense pressure on them to give more aid to upper-middle-class students and will open the door to more parental price haggling.
 Some colleges had already been moving to eliminate loans from all their financial aid packages and replace them with grants. In the weeks since Harvard's announcement, a stampede of additional institutions -- the University of Pennsylvania, Pomona, Swarthmore, Haverford -- have taken the same step, which will help middle- and upper-middle-income families. 
 But Harvard, in adopting that practice, has also gone far beyond it: for families earning $120,000 to $180,000 a year, costs will now be limited to about 10 percent of income, meaning that students from such families will pay a maximum of $18,000, a deep discount from the university's full annual cost of more than $45,600.
 Officials at colleges without anything like Harvard's $35 billion endowment say a rush to give tuition discounting to the middle and upper middle class at institutions like theirs could end up shifting financial aid from low-income students to wealthier, make pricing seem even more arbitrary and create pressure to raise full tuition to pay for all the assistance.
 ''Harvard has started to redefine the financial aid landscape, and it's redefined it in a way that is quite beneficial to the wealthiest institutions,'' said Jenny Rickard, dean of admissions and financial aid at Bryn Mawr. ''It is just a handful of schools that can really respond this way, but it leaves others kind of pulling their hair.''
 In the competitive scramble for prestige and rankings, numerous colleges already try to lure some top students away from the Ivy League by showering them with ''merit aid'' even if they are well off and can afford full tuition. The practice is controversial, with some college administrators scorning it as a way of ''buying'' a better incoming class, sometimes at the expense of lower-income students. 
 Some administrators say there will now be pressure to provide more merit aid to relatively wealthy high achievers, reducing the amount available to poorer students.
 ''It could lead to schools' doing this sort of thing because they want to be part of the top group,'' David W. Oxtoby, president of Pomona College in California, said of Harvard's move. If that meant those colleges had to reduce the number of their low-income students, Dr. Oxtoby said, ''that would be terrible, exactly the wrong outcome.'' (Pomona itself, where full costs are more than $45,000, does not provide merit aid.)
 Some academics who study higher education predict that Harvard's decision may even reduce economic diversity at Harvard itself, even though the university already allows any admitted student from a family earning $60,000 or less to attend virtually free of charge. 
 Donald E. Heller, director of the Center for the Study of Higher Education at Pennsylvania State University, said that if Harvard's new aid program encouraged more middle- and upper-middle-income students to apply, then the number of slots for low-income applicants in an entering class would probably decline. 
 ''They're just going to get crowded out,'' Dr. Heller said.
 William R. Fitzsimmons, dean of admissions at Harvard, said that the university was committed to helping poorer students attend but that years of research had shown that students from families in the middle and upper-middle class were not even applying, most likely because they had decided that the price was simply unaffordable.
 ''People were voting with their feet,'' Dean Fitzsimmons said. ''It was pretty clear that we were missing out on some pretty exciting students.''
 Parents and other critics have complained for years that tuition has steadily increased faster than the rate of inflation, and college affordability has become an issue in Congress. Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, has suggested that colleges be required to spend more of their endowments as a condition of keeping their tax-exempt status. And a bill approved by the House Education and Labor Committee last month would seek to shame, by listing publicly, those colleges that raise tuition significantly faster than their peers.
 But administrators at colleges without enormous endowments to help them cut student costs say they fear that Harvard may have created a wave of haggling by families and made college pricing and student aid packages seem even more opaque.
 ''It will educate those parents into thinking, 'Eighteen thousand dollars a year is what we ought to be paying; why should we have to pay more than that?' '' said John Strassburger, president of Ursinus College, where full costs are currently $43,160.
 Jonathan Burdick, dean of admissions and financial aid at the University of Rochester, where costs are nearly $45,000, said: ''Harvard has made it harder for everybody. They've given fuel to the argument that colleges are charging more than they should.''
 Ms. Rickard, dean of admissions and financial aid at Bryn Mawr, where total costs run over $45,000, said the college had so far resisted substituting grants for loans because it would make it harder to spread aid as widely. ''The reason we have the loans is it enables us to support more students,'' she said.
 For some public universities, Harvard's move provided a rationale to argue for more state assistance to hold the line on student costs. Robert J. Birgeneau, chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley, where total costs are roughly $25,000, said, ''My intention, frankly, is to use the Harvard announcement to try to exert pressure on the government of California to increase resources for financial aid.'' 
 And in New York, State Senator Kenneth P. LaValle, a Republican who heads the Senate Higher Education Committee, said he would introduce legislation to provide enough state aid to limit to 10 percent the amount of income that a middle-class family -- which he defined as one earning up to $150,000 -- would have to pay for college. 
 ''It's Harvard,'' Mr. LaValle said. ''They created a new paradigm. People will pay attention to it. And we need to pay attention to the affordability issue as it applies to middle-income taxpayers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William G. Durden, president of Dickinson College, said the college did not have the money to match Harvard, which has announced it will discount costs for all but the wealthiest students. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KALIM A. BHATTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



646 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Varied Home Markets Now Share a Slump

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE slide in American home prices is going national, rendering obsolete the old saying that the three factors that matter in real estate pricing are location, location and location.
 There are still important differences in the vibrancy of local economies, but those distinctions are being overridden by a mortgage market that has made it much more difficult for many would-be buyers to obtain financing. 
 The Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller indexes of home prices, which began in 1987 and now cover 20 broad metropolitan areas, have showed price declines in every market in only two months -- September and October of this year.
 Those falls came as the stringent mortgage rules began to take effect, leaving even vigorous local economies with financing problems for home buyers.
 The October figures, reported this week, showed that only three of the 20 markets still had year-over-year increases in prices: Charlotte, N.C.; Seattle; and Portland, Ore. Of those, only Charlotte's prices rose rapidly enough to offset inflation. The consumer price index excluding shelter costs was up 3.7 percent over the year, while Charlotte prices climbed 4.3 percent.
 September and October were the first months ever in which the S.& P./Case-Shiller indexes failed to show any market with at least a 5 percent annual gain, as is shown in the accompanying chart.
 While the current slowdown affects all markets, it is generally worse in those that went up the most in the housing boom. During the five-year period that ended in July 2006 -- when national housing prices peaked, according to the indexes -- seven markets showed compound annual gains of at least 14 percent. Since the peak, all seven markets are among the bottom eight. What goes up the most does come down the most, or so it appears.
 The exception to that rule is Detroit, home of the troubled American automobile industry. It was the worst performing market during the boom, and it is among the worst since.
 The figures shown in the chart are the annual rates of change over the 15 months since the peak, with the fastest rate of decline in the Tampa, Fla., region.
 But it is Miami, the other Florida market covered by the indexes, that has been going down at the fastest rate over the last year. Prices there fell 12.4 percent in the 12 months through October. That is the most rapid fall the indexes have ever recorded, exceeding the 11.2 percent decline the Boston area showed in the 12 months through February 1991.
 The indexes are compiled by comparing repeated sales of the same homes, and the 20 regions are broad enough to cover entire areas. The New York market, for example, stretches from New Haven to Trenton.
 The indexes cover only single-family home sales, not sales of condominium apartments. In the Florida markets, where condo prices have suffered badly because of speculative overbuilding, that means the indexes may be understating the distress.
 In the early 1990s there was something close to a national weakening of home prices during and after the 1991 recession. But at the low point, the S.& P./Case-Shiller indexes still showed annual price gains in five of the 17 markets the indexes then covered. And there were no months when at least one market did not show a gain from the previous month.
 Now prices appear to be weakening everywhere. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ''And the First Shall Be Last'' Home prices are now falling in most regional markets in the United States, according to the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller indexes. (Source: Standard & Poor's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); STATISTICS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (77%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



647 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: China Lets Currency Appreciate A Bit Faster

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
China's currency rose steeply against the dollar this week, feeding speculation that Chinese authorities, yielding to international pressure and economic realities at home, were allowing their currency to appreciate more rapidly.
 The currency, known as the yuan or renminbi, rose 0.9 percent this week -- faster than over any week since China stopped pegging it to the dollar on July 21, 2005. Thursday, the yuan rose 0.37 percent, the largest one-day increase since the peg ended. On Friday, it rose 0.18 percent, to close at 7.3041 to the dollar in Shanghai trading. 
 Yao Jingyuan, the chief economist of the National Bureau of Statistics in China, said Chinese officials were trying to figure out their next currency move. 
 ''It is certain that the yuan will appreciate -- the time frame and magnitude of the adjustment is difficult to confirm at the current time. We are busy studying this issue right now,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''What I can say is that it will be dependent on China's overall economic environment and outlook.'' 
 Yu Yongding, the director of the Institute of World Economics and Politics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and until last year a member of the monetary policy committee of China's central bank, said that rising inflation at home was making it much easier for the Chinese government to accept a stronger yuan.
 Until recently, the government worried that allowing the currency to rise would let in more imports and stifle exports, leading to deflation. But China's consumer price index was up 6.9 percent in November compared with a year earlier, led by an 18.2 percent rise in food prices.
 A sustained appreciation of the yuan could ease frictions somewhat with the United States, the European Union and Japan, all of which have criticized China for not allowing faster appreciation.
 To be sure, trade tensions could still increase if economies around the globe slow next year. And China has periodically allowed bursts of yuan appreciation in the past -- although not on the scale of this week's move -- only to pull the yuan down slightly or hold it nearly level for weeks afterward.
 But the comments by Mr. Yao and Mr. Yu are the latest in a series of hints from current and former officials that suggest the country's leadership is beginning to see some advantages to a stronger currency.
 On Thursday, the newspaper China Securities Journal reported that Ba Shusong, a deputy director at the government's elite State Council Development and Research Center, had called for yuan appreciation to slow the rise of food and fuel prices. China imports half of its oil, but relatively little of its food. And on Monday, a newspaper in Shenzhen reported that central bank officials had suggested to the State Council, China's cabinet, a one-time increase in the yuan's value.
 The central bank has long favored a stronger yuan, but the commerce ministry and interest groups have blocked it. Mr. Yu, like most of his Western counterparts, said the government is less likely to opt for a one-time revaluation and more likely to choose a faster pace of daily appreciation.
 The danger of allowing a steady rise in the yuan's value, instead of a quick jump, is that it may encourage speculators to pour more money into China in an effort to ride the increasing value. The country's foreign exchange reserves are already rising by roughly $1 billion a day, mainly because of a trade surplus that has continued to grow despite a 7 percent increase in the yuan against the dollar this year.
 By comparison, the yuan rose just 3.3 percent against the dollar in 2006.
 Mr. Yu said that China has become less attractive to speculators. He pointed to the ranking of China's stock markets as among the world's costliest in terms of price-to-earnings ratios; limits on foreign investments in already high-priced real estate markets; and restrictions on foreign money entering domestic money markets.
 Hong Liang, a Goldman Sachs economist based in Hong Kong, expects faster appreciation next year but not a one-time revaluation. 
 Bloomberg News found that the median estimate of 28 analysts was for the yuan to reach 6.88 to the dollar next year; that would mean a further increase of 6.2 percent from the close Friday.
 Stock markets fell across China Friday, partly in reaction to Thursday's stock market drop on Wall Street but also on the prospect that a stronger Chinese currency could narrow profit margins for many Chinese exporters. The Shanghai A share index declined 0.89 percent, the Shenzhen A share index fell 0.45 percent and the Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong plunged 1.7 percent.
 Opposition to faster yuan appreciation has come from three directions in China, according to Chinese political and currency experts.
 The most vocal bloc consists of exporters and their allies in the commerce ministry, who worry that an ever more valuable yuan will result in narrower profit margins. Chinese factories also face higher costs after Jan. 1 as a new labor law takes effect that could make it much harder to dismiss less productive employees -- although it is unclear how strictly the law will be enforced.
 But after years of having their prices beaten down by Wal-Mart and other big corporate buyers, Chinese factories have discovered this year that they can push through price increases.
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics price index for American imports from China fell steadily from when the American government began calculating the series at the end of 2003 until February of this year. But it jumped 2.4 percent from February through November as businesses in China experienced such strong demand that they were able to raise prices and still keep assembly lines full.
 Opposition to faster appreciation also has come from political leaders worried about urban unemployment and the potential for rioting if exporters lose sales and lay off workers -- or even if exporters simply hire fewer workers each year at a time when nearly 10 million migrant workers are pouring into China's cities each year from rural areas.
 But this worry seems to be abating as exporters have shown their ability to thrive even with currency appreciation, with Chinese exports 22.8 percent higher last month than a year earlier.
 Until very recently, the third obstacle to a much stronger yuan has been the danger that it would lead to cheap food imports that would drive down the prices realized by China's farmers. This has been particularly important because many officials, from President Hu Jintao on down, want to narrow the gap between rural and urban incomes.
 Higher food prices have benefited many peasant farmers this year, increasing their incomes as they sell their crops for more money. Not all peasants have gained, however, as part of the inflation has occurred because of an epidemic among Chinese pigs as well as drought in areas of southern China.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The yuan rose 0.9 percent this week, faster than over any week since China stopped pegging it to the dollar on July 21, 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FOOD PRICES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (77%); INFLATION (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DEFLATION (73%); STATISTICS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); MONETARY POLICY (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



648 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: A Winner, but Now With a Lot to Lose

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
EARLY this year, the two leading retailers of athletic footwear battled for the right to acquire Genesco, a shoe retailer whose strength is in other areas of the footwear market. Now the winner of that battle -- Finish Line -- has been ordered by a judge to complete the transaction against its will.
 The investment bank that advised Finish Line, UBS, claims now that the merged company would be insolvent. Nonetheless, it may be forced to lend the $1.5 billion needed to complete the deal. 
 The ultimate winners in all this seems likely to be Foot Locker, the other bidder, which started the battle with a hostile offer for Genesco, and possibly Genesco shareholders. If the deal was completed on the agreed terms, they would receive $54.50 a share in cash, above what the shares would be likely to sell for now.
 In a decision handed down late Thursday, Judge Ellen Hobbs Lyle of Tennessee Chancery Court ordered that the deal be closed, sending Genesco stock up sharply in trading Friday while shares of Finish Line plunged. The judge's ruling was not the final word, however, because she explicitly said UBS could walk away if a federal judge in New York ruled that the merged company would be insolvent.
 If UBS loses that battle, it appears that it will have to lend the money on terms agreed to in June, before the lending markets drastically tightened. UBS had planned to syndicate the loan, but that would probably be impossible now, particularly with UBS having claimed in court that the borrower would be unable to repay.
 To make matters worse for the investment bank, the judge faulted it for doing a poor job in advising Finish Line on the deal. She added that she did not believe some testimony by Evan Winkler, a UBS investment banker.
 If the deal is completed, the combined company would be run by Finish Line executives, who argued in court that they had been defrauded by Genesco executives. Judge Lyle rejected that claim. 
 On Friday, Genesco shares rose $5.44, to $38.50, while Finish Line shares fell 75 cents, to $2.30. Last spring, before the takeover war began, Genesco shares sold for about $43 and Finish Line shares traded for about $13. 
 The merger deal was signed in June, just before it became clear that Genesco's financial results were weakening. Finish Line and UBS argued that the weakening results constituted a ''material adverse event'' that gave them the right to back out of the deal. They also argued that Genesco, aided by its adviser, Goldman Sachs, committed fraud by concealing weak May results.
 A lawyer for Genesco, Michael Brille, a lawyer with Boies, Schiller & Flexner, said Genesco argued that it was the sudden change in the credit markets that led UBS to want to get out of its commitment.
 Judge Lyle held that when Finish Line and UBS asked about the May results, Genesco told the truth when it said they were not available. Finish Line, she said, never asked again before it signed the deal. 
 ''After a detailed analysis of the facts and the law, the court finds that Genesco and Goldman Sachs did not fraudulently conceal information,'' the judge wrote. ''Instead, the court finds that the fault is with Finish Line's adviser, UBS and its agents, whom Finish Line was relying upon to investigate Genesco.''
 She also ruled that the decline in Genesco's results came from economic forces, not company-specific issues, and that the contract carved out such events. So even if there were a material adverse event, it could not be used to back out of the merger.
 ''The court has concluded that the merger has a reasonable chance of succeeding,'' the judge wrote. ''If the combined companies would result in an insolvent entity, the New York lawsuit by UBS will halt the merger.''
 In a statement, Finish Line said it was considering an appeal. ''While the litigation proceeds,'' said Alan H. Cohen, its chief executive, ''we are continuing to operate our business in the ordinary course and are focused on implementing our product and branding strategies.''
 UBS issued a statement saying ''we respectfully disagree with the findings of the court and believe that there are material issues in our client's and UBS's favor in this matter. We have consistently stood with our client in its position on this transaction and have been prepared to fund the transaction if the conditions of the financing are met.''
 If it did have to finance the transaction, UBS probably would have to immediately record a loss, given its public arguments that the borrower would be unable to repay. That would provide the latest setback for a company that has already recorded more than $10 billion in losses from the subprime mortgage crisis and has decided to pay its dividend in stock rather than cash.
 Shares of UBS fell 45 cents Friday, to $46.10.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Finish Line is a retailer that specializes in athletic footwear. The company and Foot Locker bid for Genesco early this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY GARDINER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR (91%); SHOE STORES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); MERGERS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); SYNDICATED LOANS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (60%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BOIES SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP (50%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (91%); UBS (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



649 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: A Mixed Market as Energy Gains and Financials Fall

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Wall Street ended mixed Friday, with gains led by the energy sector and losses led by financial shares. 
 Exxon Mobil advanced for the seventh time in eight days and ConocoPhillips rose to a three-month high after higher natural gas prices bolstered their earnings outlooks.
 But Citigroup, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase, the biggest American banks, erased early gains and led financial shares lower after a report showed new-home sales fell to a 12-year low. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 2.12 points, or 0.14 percent, to 1,478.49.
 The Dow Jones industrial average added 6.26 points, or 0.05 percent, to 13,365.87. 
 The Nasdaq composite index decreased 2.33 points, or 0.09 percent, to 2,674.46. 
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies dropped 0.2 percent, to 771.76.
 Bond prices rose sharply. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose a full point, to 101 13/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.07 percent, from 4.20 percent Thursday. 
 The S.& P. 500 lost 0.4 percent for the week, while the Dow slipped 0.6 percent and the Nasdaq dropped 0.7 percent.
 Energy and mining companies have led the S.& P. to a 4.24 percent advance this year as speculation that the global economy will keep growing overshadowed a worsening housing slump. 
 Oil drillers, refiners and drilling services companies have rallied 34 percent in 2007, helping the S.& P. 500 Energy Index more than triple in five years.
 The Dow industrial average has risen 7.24 percent in 2007, while the Nasdaq is up 10.73 percent.
 Natural gas for February delivery rose 2.6 percent, to $7.386 per million British thermal units, the highest since Dec. 12. Crude oil for February delivery touched $97.92 a barrel, rising within $1 of its record close of $98.18 on Nov. 23, before falling 62 cents, to $96.
 ConocoPhillips added 53 cents, to $89.18. Exxon, also a producer of natural gas, increased $1.33, to $95. The rise in energy shares helped erase earlier losses spurred by concern falling home sales will cause a recession.
 ''We don't think the prices on the energy stocks are overdone at all,'' said Ted Baszler, who helps manage $3 billion at Heartland Advisors in Milwaukee. ''They definitely have more room to run here. The long-term story for oil remains very bullish.''
 But Richard I. Sichel, chief investment officer at Philadelphia Trust, which manages $1.5 billion, said energy was ''not the best leader to have because it's typically based on higher energy prices.''
 ''You would rather see consumer and financial stocks leading the way,'' he said. ''That would be a healthier environment.''
 Financial shares lost 0.5 percent in their third consecutive retreat. Citigroup fell 27 cents, to a five-year low of $29.29. Bank of America slid 36 cents, to a three-year low of $41.10. JPMorgan Chase declined 38 cents, to $43.26.
 Fannie Mae dropped $1.27, to $38.34.
 Banks and brokerage firms retreated even as traders increased bets that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates at its next two meetings. The odds of a quarter-point cut, to 4 percent, at the Jan. 30 meeting increased to 90 percent, from 76 percent, and the chances of a reduction to 3.75 percent on March 18 rose to 58 percent, from 44 percent, future contracts indicate. 
 D. R. Horton and Centex, two of the four largest builders by revenue, led home builders in S.& P. indexes to a 2.6 percent decline. D. R. Horton fell 56 cents, to $13.10. Centex lost 75 cents, to $24.97.
 MBIA and Ambac Financial, the largest bond insurers, declined the most in the S.& P. 500 on news that the investor Warren E. Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, had started a rival company to insure only municipal bonds.
 MBIA and Ambac, which began as municipal bond insurers, are struggling to maintain the AAA credit ratings that allow them to do business after downgrades of mortgage-related securities they also guarantee.
 MBIA, which is down 74 percent this year, fell $3.53, to $18.74. 
 Ambac, which is down 72 percent this year, declined $4.02, to $25.12.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jone Industrial average a 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); SALES FIGURES (79%); BONDS (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); MINES & MINING (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (95%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (75%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (95%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (75%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (95%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (95%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (95%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (95%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (66%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



650 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BIGHAM, THOMAS J., JR. (JAKE)

 BODY:
 BIGHAM--Thomas J., Jr. (Jake), of Portland and Rowena, Oregon, died accidentally while windsurfing, one of his great passions, in extreme conditions off the coral reef at Cabo Pulmo, Baja, Mexico on December 22, 2007. Beloved husband of Judith O'Connor and devoted father of Raina, Louisa, and Idabelle. Born July 26, 1957 and raised in New York City. Son of the late Rev. Thomas J. Bigham and Julia Scribner Bigham. Graduated from Salisbury School, Hamilton College and the University of Oregon School of Architecture. Architect in Portland and the Columbia River Gorge. Board member and former chairperson of the Oregon Investment Board for the protection and support of the Columbia River Gorge economy. He was recently appointed a trustee of the Northwest Academy in Portland. Those who knew him appreciated his ever-present sense of humor and ability to lift the spirits of those around him. He was a true leader whose absence will leave a permanent void in the lives of his family and many friends. Survived by his sisters Hildreth McCarthy, M.D., of New Orleans, LA, Mary Binks of Nairobi, Kenya, and Anda Hutchins of New Canaan, CT. A memorial service will be held in Hood River, OR, on Sunday, December 30th, and burial will be in New Marlboro, MA, in the summer. Donations may be made to Columbia River Keeper at www. columbiariverkeeper.org. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); RIVERS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (70%); NAIROBI, KENYA (51%) OREGON, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (70%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (91%); MEXICO (91%); KENYA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



651 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Sales of New Homes Plummeted to a 12-Year Low in November

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Home builders are sharply curtailing construction and cutting prices across the country as they struggle to break out of the worst housing slump since the early 1990s. But buyers remain scarce, and analysts say the market may not bottom out until well into next year or even later.
 Sales of new homes plunged to a 12-year low in November, an annual pace of just 647,000, the government said Friday. That is the slowest pace since April 1995, when sales ran at a pace of 621,000. 
 New-home purchases are down 34.4 percent from a year earlier, the biggest year-over-year drop since January 1991. That leaves a large, if shrinking, inventory of unsold homes to be worked off before the glut can be dissipated. 
 Americans appear to be holding out for real estate prices to drop even further in 2008.
 ''Right now there is a huge gulf between what buyers are willing to pay for a house and what sellers are willing to take for it,'' said Mark Vitner, senior economist at Wachovia.
 Even as new homes become more affordable, the Friday report from the Commerce Department underscores the challenges facing the residential construction industry as tighter credit and the fear of further declines in values continue to shrink the pool of potential buyers. Rising foreclosures and a wave of cancellations have crippled the nation's biggest home builders and sent their stock prices into a steep decline.
 Shares of KB Home and D. R. Horton both fell more than 4 percent in trading on Friday.
 ''People are sitting on the sidelines for a good reason,'' said Patrick Newport, an economist at Global Insight, an economic research firm in Lexington, Mass. ''You're taking a big risk because the asset you are buying may depreciate a lot between now and a year from now.''
 Mr. Newport said builders would have to keep cutting prices to entice buyers back into the market. Until then, they face a supply surplus of nine months' worth of unsold homes. While groundbreakings have slowed, Friday's report suggests the backlog is still damping demand. 
 ''Sales are dropping at such a pace that the pullback in new home building remains insufficient to make any headway in clearing out the sizable inventories of new homes for sales,'' Richard Moody, chief economist at Mission Residential, wrote in a research note.
 Analysts say home sales could bottom out as early as the middle of 2008 but any recovery will be gradual. ''The laws of supply and demand will work,'' Mr. Vitner said. ''We built around 800,000 more units of housing than the market needed. It's going to take us a couple of years of reduced home construction in order to clear up its excess.'' 
 Statistically, the size of the slump is staggering. In the summer of 2005, annual sales of new single-family homes hit a high of 1.39 million. They have since dropped to an annual rate of 647,000 -- a loss of 53.4 percent.
 The current decline is the steepest peak-to-trough drop since the 1982 housing bust, said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners, and it could grow steeper if sales continue to flag. Still, he took a slightly more optimistic view of the data. 
 ''With prices going down and income continuing to grow, that's helped to push up affordability,'' he said, adding that the industry appeared to be coming closer to ''the lows of this cycle.''
 The decline in the housing market, while long predicted by many economists, caught many home builders by surprise. In 2006, companies like Toll Brothers were predicting they could easily ride out any slowdown. And Donald J. Tomnitz, the chief executive of D. R. Horton, predicted that his company, the largest home builder in the nation, ''can earn our way through any economic cycle, except one like the Great Depression.''
 The biggest change occurred after the subprime market collapsed in the spring, which led to a temporary freeze in the lending and mortgage markets this summer. Buyers vanished; new-home sales have dropped nearly 25 percent since April. 
 There was one mildly hopeful sign for builders in Friday's report. The number of unsold new homes on the market has gradually fallen over the last year, and it dropped another 1.8 percent in November.
 Previously reported sales for August, September and October, however, were revised downward by the Commerce Department. Sales dipped from October to November in every region of the country except the West, which had a 4 percent rise. The steepest drop occurred in the Midwest, at 27.6 percent. Northeastern sales fell 19.3 percent and sales in the South fell 6.4 percent.
 The median price of a new single-family home dropped in November to $239,100, a 0.4 percent decline from a year earlier.
 That number masks the real fall in prices: more expensive homes are the ones most likely to sell because the remaining buyers are likely to be affluent, and builders have been offering increasingly costly hidden incentives to encourage buyers to take their completed homes off their hands.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A glut of new homes for sale is seen as damping demand. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C4) GRAPHS: ''Gains Since the 1990s Are Being Erased'' The market for new homes grew steadily since a recession in the early 1990s, but much of that increase has been erased in just the past two years. (Sources: Census
 National Bureau of Economic Research)(pg. C1) ''Prices of New Homes'' Median price for new homes. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); FORECLOSURE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%)

COMPANY: D R HORTON INC (90%); KB HOME CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%)

TICKER: DHI (NYSE) (90%); KBH (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (90%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (90%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



652 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Cash-Strapped Consumers

 BODY:
During the holiday shopping season, Americans bought fewer gifts while paying more for necessities. From Thanksgiving to Christmas, spending rose only 3.6 percent over the same period last year, the weakest performance in at least four years, according to early tallies from MasterCard Advisors, a unit of the credit card company. One-third of that increase was for gas purchases. 
 That's bad news for an economy that is dependent on free-spending shoppers for growth. When consumers pull back, the economy slows. Employers respond by delaying hiring plans, reducing work hours and, if problems persist, laying off workers. Once a downturn starts, it is always hard to reverse, and especially now, with the White House unwilling to acknowledge that six years of debt-fueled growth is proving unsustainable and with most candidates for president only beginning to talk about how they would fix the economy. 
 Of course, one season does not a trend make. And after-Christmas bargain hunters have yet to spend their last penny. But the preliminary results are not likely to change much. Earlier this month, the government reported that personal spending surged in November, but the boost was mostly due to higher outlays for food and gasoline. More troubling, the rise in spending far outstripped the rise in Americans' income, with the mismatch covered, in part, by a significant drain on savings. 
 All of that portends economic pain for families, even if growth, over all, does not contract -- the general definition of a recession. That's because even optimistic growth forecasts -- about 1.5 percent for this quarter and next -- are too tepid to counter recessionlike conditions in which job growth slows, unemployment rises and paychecks shrink or disappear. If inflation continues, rising prices will only feed the pain. 
 To make matters worse, many Americans are ill-prepared for tougher times.
 Since the end of 2001, the economy has posted positive growth every month. That is a performance much trumpeted by President Bush and his aides. There is another aspect of that performance that they don't talk about. With the Bush-era expansion apparently bottoming out, it may well become the first in which median family income, after inflation, never makes it back up to its level at the peak of the previous business cycle. 
 A new study by the Economic Policy Institute uses Census data to trace the dismal trajectory. Economic growth during the Clinton administration peaked in 2000, followed by a brief recession. Growth resumed at the end of 2001, the beginning of the Bush-era expansion, but real family income continued to fall through 2004. It has turned up since then, but as of the end of 2006, it was still about $1,000 below its peak in 2000. 
 Even if that difference is made up this year (and it's still too early to tell if that will happen) Americans would be merely breaking even. That would be a pathetic outcome after six years of strong labor productivity. 
 Dismal income growth is no accident. It is the result of misguided tax, labor and social policies -- including government disregard of the downsides of globalization for many Americans -- that have concentrated income in the hands of the few. 
 The ease of borrowing has made it possible for many people to live beyond their means. But, the end of easy money is now exposing Americans' vulnerability. Today's stingy shopper may be tomorrow's angry voter. To deserve those votes, a candidate must articulate a plan not only for restoring growth, but for ensuring that in the next upswing, the benefits are shared. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); CREDIT CARDS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); CENSUS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



653 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Japan Aims to Enlist China in Fight Against Global Warming

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Japan urged China to do more to fight global warming and pledged to help the country reduce runaway pollution during high-level talks in the Chinese capital on Friday. 
 Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda of Japan made energy and environmental issues the centerpiece of his four-day visit to China, hoping to build on a recent improvement in relations. 
 The countries have disputes over territory, energy resources, wartime history and military spending. Mr. Fukuda's visit, his first as prime minister, promised no major breakthroughs. 
 But both sides said that relations had improved markedly since Junichiro Koizumi left the prime minister's office 15 months ago. Mr. Koizumi had repeatedly visited Tokyo's Yasukuni war shrine, which is seen by critics as a symbol of Japan's past militarism. Mr. Fukuda, 71, who took office in September and whose father signed a peace treaty with Beijing in 1978, vowed not to visit Yasukuni while in office. 
 Mr. Koizumi's successor, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, never visited the shrine, but never publicly vowed to refrain from doing so. China, which has long demanded that Japanese prime ministers halt such visits, has responded warmly to Mr. Fukuda's promise. 
 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China, speaking with Mr. Fukuda at his side on Friday, said relations had entered a ''spring season.'' Mr. Fukuda said the two countries should put more effort into jointly fighting climate change, and promised to step up aid and technology transfer to help China improve energy efficiency and reduce emissions. 
 ''In the long history of our relations, there has never been a time when Japan and China have had more influence or responsibilities in Asia and the world,'' Mr. Fukuda said. 
 China has displaced Japan as Asia's largest manufacturing country. But it is grappling with severe environmental problems, as its air, water, land and human health have suffered from poor enforcement of environmental rules, reliance on dirty coal and low energy efficiency. This year, according to outside estimates, China also became the largest producer of global warming gases, surpassing the United States. 
 Japan, in contrast, uses less energy per dollar of economic output than any other developed country. It has cut its carbon emissions sharply, partly by outsourcing manufacturing to China and other Asian countries. 
 ''China is the major emitting country of greenhouse gases,'' Mitsuo Sakaba, press secretary for Japan's foreign minister, Masahiko Komura, said to reporters. ''So without Chinese engagement in programs of reducing the emission of greenhouse gases, any international effort will inevitably be without effect.'' 
 Mr. Sakaba and other officials spoke of stepped-up environmental aid to China. But neither side provided specifics. 
 The Japanese government and its companies have provided technology to Chinese factories to help them improve efficiency and capture waste gases. But those efforts remain limited, partly because Chinese companies have not been required to buy top-flight equipment, and Japanese companies have been reluctant to provide their latest technology at a discount. 
 In other areas, the two sides held talks about a simmering dispute over control of natural gas resources along the border separating their economic zones in the East China Sea. China has tapped gas from an area close to what Japan sees as its zone, which Japan has treated as an encroachment. Japanese officials said the two sides have made ''last ditch'' attempts to find a compromise. But there was no immediate sign that Mr. Fukuda and Mr. Wen had reached a deal. 
 Japan has also expressed concerns about China's military buildup. Beijing says it will increase military spending by 18 percent, to $45 billion this year. The Pentagon estimates China's actual spending on its armed forces to be at least double that figure. China has sought to build a modern navy. It has more than 20 new assault ships and nuclear-powered attack submarines. 
 Chinese analysts say they worry about Japan, which they say has pushed the limits of its pacifist Constitution as it tries to become a full military partner of the United States. 
 Despite those fears, military tensions eased a bit last month, when a Chinese warship made a friendly port call to Japan. The visit had been planned more than five years before, but was repeatedly delayed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (64%)

PERSON: YASUO FUKUDA (90%); SHINZO ABE (79%); WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); JAPAN (98%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



654 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: With Half of Vote Counted, Kenyan Opposition Is Poised to Sweep

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya 

 BODY:
The opposition appeared to be sweeping Kenya's elections, according to preliminary results released on Friday, with a populist challenger poised to unseat the incumbent president and several high-profile ministers voted out of office.
 With nearly half the vote counted late Friday night, the Kenyan election commission said Raila Odinga, a flamboyant politician and businessman campaigning as champion of the poor, held a sizable lead of 57 percent of the vote, compared with 39 percent for Mwai Kibaki, the incumbent president who is known for bolstering Kenya's economy but favoring his own tribe.
 Perhaps even more telling, though, was the rising casualty count among Mr. Kibaki's inner circle. The foreign minister, the defense minister, the information minister, the vice president and more than a dozen other politicians considered to be the nucleus of Kenya's politico-economic establishment have lost their Parliament seats and therefore their influential jobs, the election commission confirmed Friday. 
 It seems that the attacks by Mr. Odinga and his party, the Orange Democratic Movement, have found their mark. Kenya's 14 million voters -- who turned out in record numbers on Thursday, with many people waiting hours in lines that were miles long -- seemed ready for change.
 ''This vote is more anti-Kibaki than pro-opposition,'' said Chweya Ludeki, a political science professor at the University of Nairobi. ''The president was seen as doing a bad job in terms of ethnic balance.''
 Mr. Odinga, 62, has promised to share the fruits of Kenya's growing prosperity more equitably and end the pattern of tribal favoritism that has been at the core of Kenyan politics since independence in 1963.
 So far the election period has been relatively peaceful, with a few bursts of violence but no widespread turbulence. Foreign election observers, including the American ambassador to Kenya, have praised the process, saying it was free and fair, though at times a little chaotic.
 However, Mr. Odinga's party is now warning that unless the government speeds up the vote-counting process, anxiety could sweep across the country and incite serious violence.
 ''The political temperature is rising,'' said Joseph Nyagah, a leader of the Orange Democratic Movement.
 The movement said that the election commission was not operating independently, and that the government was upset about losing power and pressing election officials to delay the results.
 ''We live in Kenya,'' Mr. Nyagah said. ''We are Kenyans. We know what is happening.''
 Elections officials denied that there was any conspiracy to delay the results and said record turnout and the contentiousness of the election were slowing down the process. Election officials said a winner would be declared Saturday.
 Closely contested elections are something new in Kenya. For the most of the country's postcolonial history, Kenya was ruled by a single party. Mr. Kibaki, a career politician who has been in government since independence, brought an end to that by winning the presidency in 2002 as leader of Kenya's opposition.
 But he failed to make good on his promises to stop corruption and was accused of favoring the Kikuyu elite, the tribe that has dominated business and politics in Kenya since independence. Mr. Kibaki, 76, is a Kikuyu.
 Mr. Odinga says he will be different. For starters, he is a Luo, another big tribe in Kenya but one that many Kenyans feel has not gotten its due. 
 He is also an unusual blend of privilege and populism. His father was a rich businessman and the country's first vice president, but espoused socialist values. For college, young Raila was sent to East Germany. He also named his son Fidel Castro, in honor of Cuba's president. 
 Mr. Odinga has been in Parliament for 15 years and on Friday, election officials announced that he had kept his seat representing an enormous slum on the outskirts of Nairobi. Under Kenyan law, the president must also be a member of Parliament.
 Though there were some ideological issues separating the leading politicians, like strong central government versus federalism, tribe seemed to matter most. According to results broadcast on KTN, a Kenyan television station, Mr. Kibaki was winning 98 percent of the vote in the Kikuyu highlands, whereas Mr. Odinga had 90 percent of the vote in a predominantly Luo province in western Kenya.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Men watched election results through the window of a pub in Kibera, a sprawling shantytown on the outskirts of the capital, Nairobi, that is home to many supporters of Raila Odinga. Many also cheered him on at a nearby stadium. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVELYN HOCKSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); ELECTION MONITORING (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: MWAI KIBAKI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (90%) KENYA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



655 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE LONG RUN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2507 words

HEADLINE: A Biracial Candidate Walks His Own Fine Line

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
The 2006 Democratic primary campaign for the presidency of the Cook County Board of Commissioners was vintage Chicago politics.
 The incumbent was an aging party loyalist, mayoral confederate and institution in black Chicago. His opponent was younger and white, a reform-minded independent Democrat who had helped Barack Obama in his Senate race two years earlier.
 Both sides wanted the support of Mr. Obama, a vote magnet in Chicago. The challenger, Forrest Claypool, 48, had the backing of the major newspapers and a couple of liberal members of Congress. The incumbent, John Stroger, 76, had the party organization, many of the city's blacks and Mr. Obama's political benefactor, the State Senate president, Emil Jones.
 So Mr. Obama remained neutral. He was blasted in blogs and newspapers for hedging rather than risk alienating people he needed, though others said he had made the only shrewd choice. 
 ''Those relationships are complex,'' said Mr. Claypool, who lost the primary race to Mr. Stroger (who never served because of illness) and is now working on Mr. Obama's presidential campaign. ''No politician takes important relationships for granted.''
 Much of Mr. Obama's success as a politician has come from walking a fine line -- as an independent Democrat and a progressive in a state dominated by the party organization and the political machine, and as a biracial American whose political ambitions require that he appeal to whites while still satisfying the hopes and expectations of blacks.
 Like others of his generation, he is a member of a new class of black politicians. Too young to have experienced segregation, he has thrived in white institutions. His style is more conciliatory than confrontational, more technocrat than preacher. Compared with many older politicians, he tends to speak about race indirectly or implicitly, when he speaks about it at all.
 After Hurricane Katrina, he did not attribute the lumbering federal response to the race of most of the storm's victims. ''The incompetence was color-blind,'' he said. adding that the real stumbling block was indifference to the problems of the poor. After six black teenagers were charged with attempted murder in the beating of a white schoolmate in the ''Jena Six'' case in Louisiana, he said the criminal justice system needed fixing to ensure equal justice ''regardless of race, wealth or circumstances.''
 And when Mr. Obama announced his candidacy in February, he chose the steps of the Old State Capitol in Springfield, Ill., a place imbued with the spirit of Abraham Lincoln. He spoke of his work in ''Chicago's poorest neighborhoods'' and of ending poverty; race came up only glancingly, as in, ''Beneath all the differences of race and region, faith and station, we are one people.''
 But the postracial style has its pitfalls.
 'Acting Like He's White'
 Earlier this fall, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, an Obama supporter who ran for president twice, was quoted by a reporter as saying Mr. Obama ''needs to stop acting like he's white'' (words that Mr. Jackson has variously said that he would never say and that were taken out of context).
 He added, ''If I were a candidate, I'd be all over Jena.''
 More recently, Mr. Jackson accused the Democratic candidates except for John Edwards of having ''virtually ignored'' the plight of blacks. (His son, Representative Jesse Jackson Jr., a national co-chairman of the Obama campaign, fired back in an op-ed column in The Chicago Sun-Times under the headline, ''You're wrong on Obama, Dad.'')
 ''A black candidate doesn't want to look like he's only a black candidate,'' the Rev. Al Sharpton, the civil rights activist, who ran for president in 2004, said in an interview about Mr. Obama. ''If he overidentifies with Sharpton, he looks like he's only a black candidate. A white candidate reaches out to a Sharpton and looks like they have the ability to reach out. It looks like they're presidential. That's the dichotomy.''
 In a telephone interview, Mr. Obama denied that he had spoken less about race issues than other candidates. But he said he focused when possible on ''the universal issues that all Americans care about.'' His aim, he said, is ''to build broader coalitions that can actually deliver health care for all people or jobs that pay a living wage or all the issues that face not only black Americans but Americans generally.''
 He suggested that his critics were comparing him not with Mr. Edwards or Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton but with Mr. Jackson and Mr. Sharpton. ''That comparison is one that isn't appropriate,'' he said. ''Because neither Reverend Jackson nor Reverend Sharpton is running for president of the United States. They are serving an important role as activists and catalysts but they're not trying to build a coalition to actually govern.''
 Mr. Obama's legislative record does not diverge sharply from that of other black legislators, some who have studied it say. For example, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which grades members of Congress on their support for its agenda, gave Mr. Obama a 100 percent score. The difference between him and some others lies more in life experience, approach to politics and style.
 And while Mr. Obama's advisers say he is entirely comfortable with his identity -- as he has said, proud to be an African-American but not limited by that -- he carries a peculiar burden as a presidential candidate: whether or not he calibrates his words, blacks as well as whites are likely to parse them for anything they might signal about racial issues.
 ''There is a special expectation and opportunity that we have to talk about the ways race works in America,'' said Gov. Deval Patrick, a friend of Mr. Obama and the first black to lead Massachusetts. 
 But, Mr. Patrick said, ''sometimes I think advocates want one note from us. I think our experience in our lives and in our politics has been that there's much more than the one note -- and sometimes a cacophony.''
 There was a time when black politicians had little in common with white politicians. They had been educated in segregated schools and historically black colleges; many had entered politics through the civil rights movement, social activism or the black church. Their districts and constituents were overwhelmingly African-American. They were ''race men'' who had built their careers advocating for blacks.
 Winning a Mixed District
 They tended to be more liberal and militant than the Democratic Party as a whole, said Michael C. Dawson, a University of Chicago political scientist. They opposed rising military budgets and military intervention abroad, favored economic redistribution and were willing to consider such things as demands for reparation for slavery.
 Hanes Walton Jr., a University of Michigan political scientist, said, ''Once you got African-American elected officials in the 1960s and 1970s, there was huge demand from the black community about getting things done. Some of these elected officials came on with fairly rough edges because they were making consistent and hard demands. In many ways, that couldn't be escaped. These elected officials knew that they were elected from the black community.''
 Mr. Obama, by contrast, grew up in Hawaii and Indonesia, far from any center of black life. He graduated from a private prep school in Honolulu, Columbia College and Harvard Law School. Though he has belonged to the Trinity United Church of Christ in Chicago since 1987, he was not raised in the traditions of the black church, which Ange-Marie Hancock, a Yale political scientist, says ''nurtured generations of black politicians'' and ''that almost exclusive emphasis on race -- and race in a black/white framework.''
 Mr. Obama was elected to the Illinois Senate in 1996 -- not from an overwhelmingly black district like those that elected early black legislators but from a racially and economically mixed neighborhood, Hyde Park, home of the University of Chicago. In a state where Irish-American dynasties dominate Democratic Party politics, he sprang up as an outsider -- a former community organizer without party or machine support.
 Mr. Obama never fit any easily recognizable model of a black politician during his seven years in Springfield. He was a progressive Democrat who worked with Republicans; a black man whose weekly poker-game partners were white; an independent Democrat whose mentor, Mr. Jones, was one of the most powerful black politicians in the state and supported by the Chicago machine.
 In his 2006 book, ''The Audacity of Hope,'' Mr. Obama recalls sitting with a white, liberal Democrat in the Senate and listening to a black, inner-city legislator, whom he identified only as John Doe, speechifying on how the elimination of a particular program was blatant racism. The white colleague turned to Mr. Obama and said, ''You know what the problem is with John? Whenever I hear him, he makes me feel more white.''
 Mr. Obama finds a lesson in that moment: White guilt has exhausted itself. Even fair-minded whites resist suggestions of racial victimization. Proposals that benefit minorities alone cannot be a basis for the broad coalitions needed to transform the country, he concluded. Only ''universal appeals'' for approaches that help all Americans, he wrote in his book, ''schools that teach, jobs that pay, health care for everyone who needs it'' can do that, ''even if such strategies disproportionately help all Americans.''
 Mr. Obama has never had difficulty appealing to whites. In his ill-fated 1999 campaign against Representative Bobby L. Rush, a four-term Democratic congressman and former Black Panther, Mr. Obama won the white vote but lost the black vote in a district that was overwhelmingly black. Abner J. Mikva, a former Illinois congressman and longtime supporter, said, ''It took him a while to realize that it's a vote that has to be courted.''
 Hermene Hartman, the publisher of N'Digo, a weekly newspaper in Chicago, recalls advising Mr. Obama to talk less about his experience as the first African-American editor of the Harvard Law Review. ''What I was saying early on was, 'Harvard Review will play at the University of Chicago, it won't play on 55th and King Drive,''' Ms. Hartman said.
 Mr. Mikva says Mr. Obama learned to campaign in different ways without changing the substance of what he was saying. He learned to use rhythms, analogies, ''quotes that resonate better.'' Others say he simply worked hard at becoming better known, consolidating his support among black elected officials, black ministers, labor organizations and community groups, skating nimbly among factions.
 Straddling Interests
 Mr. Obama's relationship with Mr. Jackson extends back at least to the early 1990s. Mr. Jackson's daughter, Santita, was a friend of Mr. Obama's wife, Michelle, and was a bridesmaid at their wedding. The Congressional district of Representative Jackson included Mr. Obama's State Senate district; they have worked together on issues, endorsed some of the same reform-minded candidates against the party slate and sought each other's advice.
 At the same time, Mr. Obama has remained close to his longtime mentor, Mr. Jones -- an old antagonist of Representative Jackson, who defeated him for Congress in 1995. Alan Gitelson, a political scientist at Loyola University in Chicago, said, ''The skill of Obama is that he's been able to straddle the two major factions among blacks in Illinois.''
 Mr. Obama has also cultivated a working relationship with Mayor Richard M. Daley. Mr. Daley, who backed an opponent of Mr. Obama in the 2004 Senate primary, this year endorsed Mr. Obama for president -- around the time that Mr. Obama endorsed Mr. Daley for re-election, annoying some supporters and passing over two black candidates considered unlikely to win.
 ''I can tell you, having worked for both of them, they are both pragmatists who want to get things done,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's chief strategist and a longtime consultant to Mr. Daley.
 By the time Mr. Obama began running for the United States Senate, he ''didn't have to run as a black candidate,'' said Don Rose, a longtime political consultant in Chicago. Illinois had already elected one black senator, Carol Moseley Braun, and Mr. Obama had nailed down overwhelming black support. According to Mr. Axelrod, he ended up with 92 percent of the black vote in a competitive field.
 Yet race was a subtext of a television advertisement widely believed to have helped Mr. Obama win, Mr. Rose believes. The advertisement featured Sheila Simon, the daughter of former Senator Paul Simon, a Democrat who was a revered figure in Illinois politics, lionized by white progressives and admired by some conservatives. Mr. Simon, who had worked with Mr. Obama on ethics reform, had intended to endorse him but had died unexpectedly after heart surgery in 2003.
 So Mr. Axelrod had asked Ms. Simon to make an advertisement about the similarities between her father and Mr. Obama. He said the commercial might help explain Mr. Obama's unexpected success in white, working class neighborhoods on Chicago's Northwest Side, which had been hostile to black candidates in the past. Mr. Rose believes that the advertisement's subtext, intentionally or not, was gender and race: ''It is saying, 'People, I'm a white woman, and I'm not afraid of him.'''
 Dining With Sharpton
 In Washington, Mr. Obama made it clear almost immediately that his career would not be defined by his race. One of the first acts of the new Congress was to certify the results of the Electoral College. Some members of the Congressional Black Caucus moved to contest the certification of the Ohio votes. Mr. Obama did not join them. In a hastily arranged maiden speech, he said he was convinced that President Bush had won but he also urged Congress to address the need for voting reform.
 In his office, he hung paintings of Lincoln, Gandhi and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., all of whom he calls his heroes.
 In recent weeks, Mr. Obama has turned some of his attention to courting black voters. Nine months into his campaign, he held his first fund-raiser in Harlem, at the Apollo Theater, where he said, among other things, he was in the race because he was ''tired of reading about Jena.'' Then he went on tour with Oprah Winfrey, whom he had gotten to know when she interviewed him after his speech at the Democratic National Convention in 2004.
 Mr. Sharpton, who has yet to endorse anyone, says Mr. Obama began his campaign as ''the alternative to guys like me.'' But in recent months, Mr. Sharpton said, ''he's been calling us.'' 
 Mr. Obama also arranged to dine with Mr. Sharpton, in the presence of a herd of reporters, before his appearance at the Apollo.
 ''A portion of black voters want Obama to give them some raw meat,'' said Julian Bond, chairman of the board of the N.A.A.C.P. ''Because they want so badly to have their concerns addressed and highlighted, and they expect it of him because he's black.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama in a light moment after meeting in June with the Rev. Jesse Jackson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
LOOKING FOR SUPPORT Senator Obama, seeking an endorsement he has yet to win, appeared with the Rev. Al Sharpton in New York last April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES REX ARBOGAST/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 COURTING A CONSTITUENCY: Barack Obama, campaigning for the Democratic nomination, met with black voters at a fund-raising event at the Apollo Theater in Harlem in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); WALKING & JOGGING (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); HURRICANE KATRINA (67%); MURDER (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); AL SHARPTON (59%); JESSE JACKSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007



656 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Trading Away Poverty

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Bested by the Brits'' (editorial, Dec. 23), which laments the fact that the United States now lags Britain in donations to the World Bank's poverty-fighting unit, misses the point. 
Free trade is a much more potent weapon in eliminating global poverty than ill-conceived ''poverty fighting'' programs devised by bureaucrats in Washington and elsewhere. 
 The failures of decades of foreign aid can be seen in Africa and elsewhere. The success of free markets in lifting millions out of poverty is evident in the rise of China, India and Brazil as economic superpowers.
 Becoming the world leader in foreign aid might make us feel better. Keeping our trade barriers low is more likely to help the largest number of poor people escape from grinding poverty.
 Ignacio Sosa
 Boston, Dec. 23, 2007
 The writer is principal manager of OneWorld Investments, a hedge fund.
 To the Editor:
 I wonder what the contributions of America versus those of other countries would look like if you widened the lens to include private, charitable donations. Stephen J. Gold
 Westfield, N.J., Dec. 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); CHARITABLE GIVING (77%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CHARITIES (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009



657 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2531 words

HEADLINE: Memories of a Venerable Showcase

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA LA ROCCO

 BODY:
FROM dance enclaves in the Bronx to roving, artist-run collectives, showcases for ''emerging choreographers'' -- that fuzzy, mutable category -- are a dime a dozen these days. But this week one of the pioneers, the Fresh Tracks series at Dance Theater Workshop in Chelsea, reaches an important milestone: 500 artists presented, counting a few double appearances. 
 Fresh Tracks, which will present work by seven choreographers on Friday and next Saturday, has run, in one guise or another, since Dance Theater Workshop was founded as an artists' collective by Jeff Duncan, Art Bauman and Jack Moore in 1965. The list of participants, chosen through open auditions, is a Who's Who of contemporary dance, including Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker, Wendy Perron, Doug Elkins, Reggie Wilson, David Parsons, Meredith Monk, Bebe Miller, Tere O'Connor and Maria Hassabi. Deborah Jowitt, the dance historian, teacher and longtime Village Voice critic who has reviewed so many Fresh Tracks evenings, performed in the very first program. 
 As usual with such long-running, grass-roots (at least at first) efforts, there are conflicting versions of history. Ms. Jowitt, for one dismisses the idea that the showcase, then called the Studio Series, had anything to do with Fresh Tracks. No matter; she is claimed by others. ''Hogwash or not, I just love that history,'' said David Dorfman, the choreographer and Connecticut College professor, describing a placard in the old theater's lobby listing Fresh Tracks artists. ''This is our history. It's our little internal history. It's important.''
 This week Mr. Dorfman will be cheering on two former students, Maggie Bennett and Rebecca Serrell. ''I was as excited for them as I was when I got it'' in 1985, he said. 
 Their excitement brought back memories of his own performance. ''Nervousness and utter enjoyment is what I remember feeling,'' he said, ''and still feel thinking about it.''
 Here are a few of the Fresh Tracks alumni, and their memories. 
 Bill T. Jones
 Of all the participants, Bill T. Jones has probably had the most storied career, including this year's Tony Award for best choreography, for ''Spring Awakening''; a role in the culture wars of the 1990s, when the former New Yorker critic Arlene Croce condemned his landmark 1994 meditation on illness, ''Still/Here''; and an electrifying interracial partnership with Arnie Zane, who died of AIDS in 1988. 
 Ms. Jowitt and others mentioned Mr. Jones's 1977 solo (in what was then called the Choreographers Showcase, becoming Fresh Tracks in 1984) as one of those charged moments when you realize you're seeing something important. Mr. Jones's feelings are more complicated.
 ''I believe everyone was white on the panel,'' he said of his audition. ''It was cool central, and you knew it.'' At the time Mr. Jones was living in Binghamton, N.Y., with the American Dance Asylum, a collective of ''hippie types and general malcontents'' who ''turned up our noses at Manhattan,'' he said. ''We thought of it as a Babylon: true art couldn't happen in a commercial environment. Can you believe it? Of course all these highfalutin ideas collapsed as soon as I was offered something.''
 Mr. Jones was the first of the collective to break into ''the grand ivory tower of the avant-garde in Lower Manhattan,'' he continued. ''Our idols were the people in Grand Union, Judson Church, people who were certainly not on the cover of Dance Magazine. To make it meant to sell out. So it was a confusing time.''
 David R. White
 ''Going back to the original Studio Series, it was always a question of 'Open the door, see what's out there,''' said David R. White, Dance Theater Workshop's executive director from 1975 to 2003. ''Some years it felt like everyone was economically bereft, and the only thing we were seeing was solos, and then another year everybody seemed to be working with 14 people. This was completely random, but it gave you a sense of the zeitgeist.''
 Mr. White remembered heated discussions and agonizingly deadlocked panels. Other choices were easier. ''There were always one or two -- certainly the De Keersmaeker falls into that, and also the first angry silent solo by Donald Byrd -- where everyone knows that something important is happening here. I made it clear that we're not looking for masterpieces. You could find some, like the De Keersmaeker, which was as perfect you're going to get in a short-story format. But the job is to look for the pieces where the strengths are shouldering the weaknesses out of the way.''
 Having sat through an estimated 2,700 showcase auditions during his tenure, Mr. White added by e-mail that no single performance was make or break. ''But every decision by every panel (panels themselves ever changing, never the same) are like glass-bottom boats in clear water,'' he wrote, ''slipping over the random flux of who makes dance and why, and, at its best, carrying along the visceral reactions of those lucky enough to observe it.''
 Cyndi Lee
 When Cyndi Lee was selected in 1982, ''it was a really big deal,'' she said. Galvanized by her performance (which she remembers mostly for its costumes of short jumpsuits and running shoes, as well as some rhythmic, gestural movement) and the opportunities that followed, Ms. Lee said it ''gave us all a new idea that maybe we really could have a livelihood'' as dancers. But 14 years later she quit, worn down by the politics and hardships. 
 ''I did this concert, and the director of the theater never even came to see it,'' she recalled. ''I hired a P.R. company, and the P.R. person came on the last night and said to me: 'Oh my gosh, that's the best concert I've seen all year. If I'd known it was going to be that good, I would have worked harder for you.' And I said, 'That's it, I'm done.' ''
 Ms. Lee turned to yoga, founding Om Yoga, which celebrates its 10th anniversary next month. She credits choreography with her creative style of teaching. And, yes, she said, she employs ''many, many, many dancers, or ex-dancers, or ex-choreographers, and I go to see them dance.''
 Deborah Jowitt
 With Dance Theater Workshop itself still an emerging enterprise, the Studio Series in which Ms. Jowitt participated bears more resemblance to current artist-run series like the peripatetic Catch and Chez Bushwick in Brooklyn than to the Fresh Tracks of today. 
 ''You couldn't flush the toilet during performances,'' she said, describing Jeff Duncan's loft on 20th Street, where the shows took place on Mondays and Saturdays. ''It definitely had an identity that was more like that of a cooperative.''
 ''I also remember, very vividly, this program in which I performed with Meredith Monk,'' she continued. ''It was as if we came from different countries. I had come from very traditional modern dance, and I remember her saying to me, 'Did it take you a very long time to choreograph that solo?' And I never knew if she meant it looked difficult, and that was a good thing, or if I had just cooked it up.''
 By the early 1970s that cooperative feel was fading, and Ms. Jowitt had already been writing for The Voice for several years. She recalled being able to see certain trends over the years and the excitement of looking in on the new. But when asked about individual performances, only one is seared into her memory: Bill T. Jones's in 1977.
 ''It was so full of controlled rage, and he was so beautiful,'' she said. ''It was politically explosive, and he was a charismatic performer of the sort that was unusual.'' Laurie Uprichard
 In June, Laurie Uprichard left her 15-year tenure as executive director of Danspace Project at St. Mark's Church to direct the International Dance Festival Ireland in Dublin. Before Danspace she worked at Dance Theater Workshop (where she served on many Fresh Tracks panels). But she was in the showcase herself, in 1973, just 18 months after moving to New York.
 ''There's a Voice review that I have in my drawer in N.Y.C. and I remember some sentence about an 'existential dirge ... ,''' she wrote in e-mail. ''Deborah Jowitt wrote the review, I'm pretty sure, of that edition of the Choreographers Showcase. The piece started with me on a ladder in the dressing room -- the wall of which stopped a couple of feet from the ceiling so my torso was visible. I recited the short Beckett bit from there, mumbled it really, then came careening out of the dressing room running full tilt through the space to the other end. After that, I did a lot of rolling on the floor as fast as possible and ended up on my back with my legs against the upstage wall doing something that I can't remember as the lights faded.''
 Ms. Uprichard added that ''the experience of being treated as a serious young choreographer was very important'' and something she took with her as a presenter. 
 How long did she pursue a career as a choreographer after the showcase? ''Not a minute longer.'' 
 Philip Sandstrom
 From 1980 to 2003 Philip Sandstrom worked at Dance Theater Workshop, eventually becoming director of operations. He served on many showcase panels and helped a number of artists create lighting designs (usually their first) for the shows. It was a much smaller world, at least at the beginning, and the space, also smaller and more homey than the current building, lent itself to intimate performances.
 ''D.T.W. and downtown lofts were pretty much it for contemporary dance'' in 1980, he said. ''As the panel's composition changed, the people who actually got on the program changed. Being quite connected to the dance field at the time, you'd hear a lot of griping about who was chosen and why they were chosen.
 ''It was remarkable. I wish I had some sort of video of all the auditions. You could see a cross section of New York City dance history within that 20 years.''
 Levi Gonzalez
 As dance has evolved, so has Fresh Tracks. In 2005 Dance Theater Workshop began a residency program, vital in an era of expensive, inadequate studio rentals, and it has developed a dialogue involving all of the artists and moderated by Levi Gonzalez, who did a ''very physical, dance-centered exploration'' in a 2002 Fresh Tracks with Luciana Achugar.
 ''That was when the building was being built, so we did it at the Flea,'' he said. ''There was still this idea that I think has since disappeared, in New York, that there is an echelon of presenting, or of gigs to get, to get yourself established.''
 Fresh Tracks ''really introduces you to the world of how you manage yourself artistically in a way,'' he said. ''But it's clearly not anymore one of the main venues to come and see up-and-coming artists, and in a way it's less curated. I really shouldn't say this, because I'm moderating the Fresh Tracks panel, but it doesn't draw me to it unless there are certain people I already know, whereas with Catch there is a certain spirit already. But what they have done with Fresh Tracks is incredible. Now they have a residency, workshops and a dialogue session, and it just seems like a real full, supportive program for young artists.''
 Karinne Keithley
 Still a senior in college when she waltzed into Dance Theater Workshop in 1995 for her audition, Karinne Keithley laughs now when recalling how she assumed her career would smoothly unfold after the show.
 ''I just kept going back to my mailbox in college, when I got back, waiting for a note from David White saying, 'good job' '' and offering an immediate follow-up gig, she said. ''I think I just thought it was this very clear avenue, and that if I showed up and did well, then I'd get another show. And if I did well at that, I'd get another show. And then I'd be a professional choreographer, which of course didn't happen.''
 Instead Ms. Keithley is now working toward her doctorate in English, having left what she described as ''the professional life of performance'' in favor of various collaborative projects involving a diverse group of artists. 
 ''I feel I've seen the end of that one institutional structure of dance, and the emergence of other forms which are still in trial,'' she said. ''I think D.T.W. is flourishing and becoming a new institution. At that point it was the undisputed epicenter.''
 Asked what she most remembered about her performance, Ms. Keithley recalled meeting Ellen Robbins backstage, before going on. Ms. Robbins, the veteran teacher, ''asked me if I was nervous, and I told her no,'' Ms. Keithley said with a chuckle. ''And she said, 'Well, you should be.'''
 Carolyn Hall
 Fresh Tracks is a choreography showcase, but some excellent dancers have come through it as well, including Carolyn Hall, who auditioned in 2002 using a commissioned solo by Lionel Popkin. Ballet stars often commission work, Ms. Hall pointed out, ''but people who work in the downtown scene don't generally, so I was a curiosity.''
 The project came at a time when Ms. Hall was feeling the need for more autonomy in her career, without being drawn to choreography. She described the solo as ''a mysterious journey of a woman from an ambiguous and contemplative place to a place of resolution, not necessarily with a period, but with a dot, dot, dot.''
 The ellipses might have been a symbol for the sharp turn that Ms. Hall's life would soon take: a return to school this fall, to study marine biology. 
 ''As a performer and not a choreographer and teacher of dance,'' she said, ''the future economic sustainability is difficult unless you're going to follow through with administrative work, which I was doing to support myself. People who are choreographers or teachers, they don't feel as much of a need to find an alternative to the field. I had a yearning to go back to science, which had been one of my first interests. I felt like I needed to know whether biology still mattered to me.''
 Otto Ramstad
 After 10 years of performing his work Otto Ramstad of Minneapolis is hardly a green choreographer. But like many other out-of-towners, he still faces an uphill battle in getting New York institutions to take note, especially since he has moved from site-specific and film work to theater-based work only in the last couple of years. 
 Mr. Ramstad, speaking by phone from Japan, called the audition surreal, adding that he performed in a ''dream state'' and, as a result, couldn't really gauge how he did.
 ''I came to New York for a day and a half to do it,'' he said of his Fresh Tracks audition. ''I spent more time in the airport and on airplanes than I did auditioning, and being in the basement of D.T.W. was kind of like being in the airport. I went to D.T.W., then I went to the new MoMA to see the last day of the giant steel sculptures -- the Richard Serra exhibit -- and then I went back to the airport. I had rehearsed for two hours before getting on the plane, and then I went right back to the rehearsal room in Minneapolis.''
 Mr. Ramstad said it was not always easy for him, like many out-of-town choreographers, to have his work seen in New York. 
 ''I don't necessarily see it as the first step'' to the Brooklyn Academy of Music, he said, laughing. ''I've been merging in different fields at different times. Now I'm trying to figure out how to emerge.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); DANCE (90%); THEATER (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); HISTORY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); AIDS & HIV (63%)

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



658 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; DINING IN RETROSPECT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: How Sushi Chased Beef Wellington

BYLINE: By PATRICIA BROOKS

 BODY:
CHIPOTLE, huitlacoche, galangal, Kaffir lime, cilantro aioli, ciabata, chimichurri, bok choy, arugula, tat soi, yuzu, mesclun, panna cotta, ponzu, lemon grass -- these and dozens of other words were mostly unknown 30 years ago when I began reviewing restaurants for the Connecticut section of this newspaper. 
 At that time, there were so few ''white tablecloth'' places that friends asked me what would happen when I ran out of restaurants to review. That has yet to happen, mainly because of the gastronomic revolution that has overtaken the nation from the late 1980s onward. 
 I have watched as Connecticut restaurants moved from fad to fad. These have included nouvelle cuisine, Cajun cooking (with ''blackened'' everything), Vietnamese, Thai, regional Chinese (Sichuan, Hunan), northern Italian, sushi (now even in supermarkets) and, most recently, modern American and Asian fusion. Through mini-recessions and prosperous times, this amazing revolution (more of an evolution really) continues, aided by two-income families, working wives, more consumer travel to ever-more-exotic places and an influx of immigrants opening their own restaurants -- not to mention a newfound interest in fresh seasonal ingredients (many now being produced locally) and a healthier lifestyle, exemplified by the Mediterranean diet.
 In the late 1970s and early '80s, the dominant ''fancy'' restaurant cuisine was called continental, which meant you could corral coq au vin, veal marsala and beef Wellington under one big umbrella. Such a menu might feature oysters Rockefeller, French onion soup, clams casino (ubiquitous), veal cordon bleu and beef Bourguignon. 
 Menus were enormous and the diversity strongly suggested that many dishes were frozen. In the parlance of the time, dishes called fresh were often, as one waiter explained, ''fresh frozen.'' Waiterly expertise was often in short supply. One evening, I ordered sweetbreads from a menu, only to be told, ''They're not in season.'' What is the season for a pancreas or thymus gland?
 In pre-evolution Connecticut mushrooms meant buttons (often canned) and now we have chanterelles, morels, shiitakes, enokis, oyster, trumpets and many other choices. Salad is no longer iceberg lettuce, but tat soi, arugula, radicchio, mizuna and all kinds of other baby greens. Pasta has graduated from spaghetti, fettuccine, macaroni and manicotti to pappardelle, farfalle, cappelletti, agnolotti and conchiglie, among scores of other shapes and types. 
 Peppers available today are not just green bell, but poblano, ancho, habanero, serrano, jalapeno, guajillo, pequin and others. Cheese trays are no longer limited to Camembert, Brie, Stilton and Cheddar, but contain Manchego, Cabrales, tetilla, Roncal and many other cheeses from Spain, Britain and elsewhere. Even Connecticut farms have gotten into the cheese act, like Cato Corner Farm in Colchester with its Bridget's Abbey, Sankow's Beaver Brook Farm in Lyme with farmstead cheeses like Summer Savory, feta and Farmstead, and Beltane Farms in Lebanon with chevre and other cheeses.
 Keeping pace with all the changes in food is the profound change in what we drink. Only yesteryear wine was not de rigueur with dinner. I recall asking for the wine list at one restaurant and the waitress looked blank. ''We don't have a wine list. We've got red, white and pink. Take your pick.'' 
 Beer lists, once confined to Budweiser and Budweiser Lite and Miller and Miller Lite, now often contain 10 to 20 different ales and microbrews from all over, with provocative names like Boulder Sweaty Betty, Rogue Dead Guy ale, North Coast Old Rasputin, Flying Dog in Heat wheat beer and Dogfish Head.
 All these changes have turned Connecticut from a bland ''white bread'' state into an appealing gallimaufry of ethnic diversity -- reflecting the state's population changes. Nowadays, in Fairfield County alone, at least six terrific Indian restaurants come to mind (Coromandel, Dakshin, Bombay, Thali, Chola and Bangalore), several good Thai ones (Little Thai Kitchen, Bangkok, the King and I), Asian fusion (Baang Cafe and Bar, Tengda, Ching's Table, Tai Pan), Japanese (Plum Tree, Wasabi Chi, Koo, Nuage and, recently, Duo) and a growing number of Nueva Latina or modern Latin American (Brasita's, Avenida, Habana, Valencia Luncheria, Bespoke, Pacifico).
 I haven't begun to mention all the so-called modern American restaurants of note that have morphed in the state, from the West Street Grill (Litchfield) and Carol Peck's Good News Cafe (Woodbury) to the exciting new Napa and Company (Stamford), Gaia (Greenwich) and Pastorale Bistro and Bar (Lakeville). The list continues with Zinc (New Haven), Restaurant Moosilauke (Kent), Palomino (Old Greenwich) and River Cat Grill (Rowayton).
 Among first-rate Italian places, many are regional (Solaia, Tuscany, Cava Wine Bar and Restaurant, Da Pietro's, Il Palio, Cantina Sforza, Valbella, Pulpo, Terra Ristorante, Strada 18, to mention just a few). Fewer in number are French establishments, elegant or casual (Union League Cafe, Restaurant Jean-Louis, Le Petit Cafe). Then there are notable Spanish restaurants like Meigas, Ibiza and La Paella. 
 Transitory as the restaurant business is, many old favorites are now gone (I still miss Tapestries in Greenwich and, a more recent loss, La Colline Verte in Fairfield). But a few, like Carbone's in Hartford, Cavey's in Manchester and La Bretagne in Stamford, are alive and well. Many village inns (always a Connecticut attraction), whose modest gastronomic claim-to-fame often was cottage cheese and piccalilli in a cut glass relish dish, have jazzed up their menus, attracted new owners and/or chefs and are now culinary stars. I'm reminded of Thomas Henkelmann at the Homestead Inn, Bernard's in Ridgefield, Brendan Walsh's Elms Restaurant and Tavern, the Mayflower Inn, the Roger Sherman, the Bee and Thistle and Copper Beech. 
 In the late 1970s, a recurrent refrain was ''I can't find a good restaurant in this town.'' Now the list of superb places is so long, I hardly know where to begin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EVOLVED: Above, Mark Gillman of Cato Corner Farm in Colchester. Top, the view at Napa and Company in Stamford. Left, larb salad with spicy minced beef at Little Thai Kitchen in Darien. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY C. M. GLOVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZY ALLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ECLECTIC: Above, making guacamole at Avenida in Greenwich. Left, Inside Solaia in Greenwich. Bottom left, dahi batata ev poori (wheat and semolina puffs filled with chat) at Thali in New Haven. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CHEESE (83%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (83%); FROZEN FOODS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); SICHUAN, CHINA (56%); HUNAN, CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



659 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: To Botch a Forecast, Rely on Past Experience

BYLINE: By PETER L. BERNSTEIN. 
Peter L. Bernstein, a financial consultant and economic historian, is the editor of the Economics & Portfolio Strategy newsletter.

 BODY:
 A LOT of people have been wrong about the markets and the economy in recent months. But how could so many people have been so wrong at the same time and in the same ways? 
 The question reminds me of the biggest and most embarrassing goof in my own career. This sad story happens to date back 50 years, to New Year's Day of 1958. In looking back, I can now see the source of my error: I was postcasting -- extrapolating past experience instead of seeking change in future experience. The aftermath was embarrassing, but it taught me never to postcast again.
 I had been invited to make a presentation on the outlook for 1958 at a symposium at the Harmonie Club in New York. The program was to take the form of a debate with another economist whose view was diametrically opposed to mine. Although I was extremely bearish and would look mighty silly within six months of the debate, I was the one who swayed the audience. It voted overwhelmingly for my position and scorned the wisdom of my opponent. 
 There was no doubt that the new year was dawning at a dark moment. The stock market had peaked in August and was already down 13 percent. The Christmas season had been a clear disappointment. Industrial production had fallen 6 percent from its August high. Unemployment had jumped to nearly 6 percent from 4 percent the previous summer.
 We could all agree that a recession was in the making. The issue was how deep the downturn would go and how long it would last, and this was where my opponent and I parted ways.
 He expected the recession to be short and sweet, with a revival in the economy by summer at the latest. I saw no sign of light anywhere. A child of the Great Depression, I had been well schooled by my college professors in economics in the late 1930s to believe that the American economy had lost its long-run dynamic. So, in the downturn of 1957, I was convinced that the dreaded moment had arrived when we would sink back into the stagnation of production and employment that I had remembered so well.
 But how could I have failed to notice how many things had changed? The dynamic power of the American economy was visible everywhere. The population had grown 19 percent since 1947, compared with growth of only 7 percent from 1929 to 1939. Houses were sprouting up all over; there were new kinds of cars, new kinds of airplanes, and new kinds of radios, and, above all, television was a reality. All of Europe was coming to our shores to find what it needed to rebuild after the destruction of the war; in real terms, our surplus of exports over imports had quadrupled since 1929. The United States sat on a huge pile of gold, and liquidity and consumer credit were easy to come by. 
 Indeed, when I spoke on that New Year's Day, the economy was within six months of touching bottom and would be hitting new peaks by the next New Year's Day. As it turned out, most of the recession of 1957-58 was a result of a runoff of excessive inventory accumulation rather than a failure in underlying demand. 
 Most surprising, price levels were firm, although prices had always declined in previous recessions. The stock market would touch bottom within days of my dismal speech and would rise so fast that the dividend yield on common stocks would fall below the yield on long-term Treasury bonds. This was an unheard-of event, but one that has never come close to being reversed. Of all developments, the unexpected break in stock market history was the most auspicious sign of faith in the future. 
 I look pretty stupid in hindsight, although I remind you that I had plenty of company in the audience that day. How could so many people be so wrong?
 THE same question applies to the turmoil of the present as we approach another New Year's Day, and it has applied many other times in the past half-century. As we have learned again and again, we seem to have great difficulty recognizing a changing environment (though it looks so easy in hindsight). Humans cling to early experiences and what they have understood, even when something different is directly in front of them.
 From the end of 2002 to the early months of 2007, prosperity seemed firmly rooted and even touched by some kind of magic. The Fed appeared to have inflation under control, productivity was high, no squalls were hitting the stock market, the dollar's decline was orderly, home prices generally rose steadily, and the unemployment rate fell in many months. Even better, investors could buy all those interesting new forms of financial paper invented by the engineers, offering high yields at what the rating agencies assured investors was low risk.
 But the magic was not in concrete; it never is. The conviction that risks were low led investors to take greater risk without requiring higher expected returns. By late 2006, the Fed was wrestling with inflationary pressures from oil and food, productivity had lost its momentum, housing prices had been declining since summer, and the mortgage markets were starting to crack. 
 Nevertheless, like me in 1958, investors refused to see the ground shifting beneath them, even though the environment was no longer what they knew and thought they understood. Like me, they were walking into a trap where the responses were not what they had anticipated. Like me, they were headed toward big surprises for which they had no preparation.
 It has been said that good forecasters have a good sense of history. I suppose that is true. But the best lesson from the past is to forget it before it shoves you into trouble -- and remember that
 surprises and ruptures surely lurk ahead. 

GRAPHIC: ILLUSTRATION (ILLUSTRATION BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); CHRISTMAS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



660 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Carolyn Setlow and Andrew Shapiro

BYLINE: By DEVAN SIPHER

 BODY:
LAST January, Carolyn Setlow was alone in her New York apartment crying over love letters from the man she didn't marry.
 Their author was Andrew O. Shapiro, and the last time they had seen each other was when he had proposed to her -- 27 years earlier.
 They met at a holiday party in December 1977. Mr. Shapiro was immediately attracted to Ms. Setlow, an upbeat brunette who laughed easily and often. Within a month they were dating seriously and taking weekend trips to Vermont, where he taught her to ski. ''We basically fell in love on the ski slopes,'' said Mr. Shapiro, now 65. 
 Ms. Setlow, 61, recalls ''a lot of falling and a lot of laughing, and evenings in front of romantic fireplaces.'' The glow lasted about two years. Then reality crept in.
 Ms. Setlow, who by age 29 was a senior executive at Louis Harris & Associates, the polling organization, yearned for stability. But Mr. Shapiro, a trim man with an impish sense of humor, had not established himself professionally. Though he had a law degree, he was working as a freelance writer and starting a publishing company. He hoped Ms. Setlow would embrace his sense of adventure. 
 She tried, but she couldn't. ''I'm a practical, on-the-ground kind of person,'' said Ms. Setlow, now an executive vice president of the GfK Group, a market research firm, in New York. In her eyes, Mr. Shapiro was a man nearing 40 who was risking his limited savings on a potential pipe dream. In the fall of 1979, she reluctantly broke up with him.
 That's when he started writing the letters. Lengthy, poetic letters about his love and loss and his desire to reunite. 
 ''I'd find letters with my doorman and letters with my mail,'' she said. The passion in his pages weakened her resolve. ''I couldn't let go of him any more than he could let go of me,'' she said. So she would call him, which would motivate him to write more letters.
 But fearing rejection, he did not ask to get together in person. This continued for almost a year. Both were dating other people but not really moving on. ''I couldn't get her out of my mind,'' he said. ''I had to resolve it one way or the other.'' So he proposed marriage.
 Surprisingly, she did not say no. But she was afraid to say yes. The intensity of his feelings seemed to demand the same intensity in return, and she feared losing her independence. ''I was afraid the relationship was going to take over my life,'' she said. Mr. Shapiro recalled being crestfallen, yet ''oddly relieved.'' He thought: ''Enough with the love letters. It's not going to work.''
 They went their separate ways. Coincidentally, they both married in January 1983, and, in 2004, Ms. Setlow's husband moved out the same month that Mr. Shapiro lost his spouse to lung cancer.
 He was devastated; he had nursed his wife for two years. And he no longer had work to occupy him, because he had retired after selling Brownstone Publishers, the legal-advice newsletter business he and a partner had founded. 
 Ms. Setlow still had her career as well as two teenage sons to focus on. Though she described her divorce as a crushing blow, her effervescence soon resurfaced. ''The only person I'm hurting by being sad is myself, and why would I want to do that?'' she said.
 Instead, she started seeking new adventures, like online dating and attending a Buddhist retreat. Eleven months ago, she took down a dusty box from the top of her closet and found the letters she had hidden away decades back. 
 Motivated by her tearful reaction and curiosity, she decided to call Mr. Shapiro. ''I didn't want to grow old without knowing how Andy's life turned out,'' she said. 
 She found his phone number and left a short message, which he retrieved in Santiago, Chile, a stop on his return from a five-week trip to Antarctica, where, he said, he had gone to escape the ''unbearable happiness of the holidays.'' 
 Hearing her voice energized him. ''I listened to her message several times,'' he said. The fact that she had saved his letters, he admitted, ''appealed to my vanity.'' He called her, and three days later he was riding the elevator up to her 15th-floor apartment. ''I was incredibly nervous,'' he said. 
 Ms. Setlow, equally nervous, was relieved to see the same smartly dressed man she remembered. ''It was love at first sight all over again,'' she said. But with the wisdom of age.
 Ms. Setlow says she now knows, ''You've got to take a risk.'' 
 ''Thirty years ago, we were both a little gun-shy,'' she added. ''I was afraid to commit to the relationship. But he wasn't pounding at my door.''
 This time there was no holding back.
 On Dec. 16, there was a bounce in Ms. Setlow's step and flowers in her hair as she practically skipped down the aisle at Chanterelle, a New York restaurant. The bride and bridegroom stood with their arms entwined under a russet cloth canopy in a warm room of burnished wood and polished brass. When Rabbi Robert N. Levine pronounced them husband and wife, they kissed and kissed again, until the rabbi intervened for a final blessing.
 ''If you find someone, or refind someone the second time around, you grab them,'' Mr. Shapiro said, ''You grab life, and you don't waste time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW YORK, DEC. 16 Top, the bride and bridegroom, reunited after almost 30 years. Above: a souvenir of long-ago romance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); SKIING (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (66%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (64%); PUBLISHING (51%)

COMPANY: HARRIS INTERACTIVE INC (56%); GFK AG (54%)

TICKER: HPOL (NASDAQ) (56%); GFK (FRA) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



661 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION CONNECTICUT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Greenwich Project Takes Nose Dive

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
A DEAL promoted two years ago as the largest real estate acquisition in Connecticut history is making headlines again, this time as a flop. 
 Antares Investment Partners is facing foreclosure on its condominium-conversion projects at two Greenwich apartment complexes. 
 Lehman Brothers Holdings, which financed Antares's $223 million purchase of the complexes, originally known as Putnam Green and Weaver's Hill, initiated the proceedings on Dec. 7. 
 The purchase price translated to an average cost of more than $550,000 per apartment, even before planned aesthetic upgrades to the 396 units. Despite an ambitious marketing campaign that included placards wooing commuters on Metro-North trains, the condos, renamed Greenwich Place and Greenwich Oaks, failed to attract buyers. 
 Work at the complexes came to an abrupt halt late in the summer, creating another kind of limbo for the more than 100 renters who remained as tenants during renovations.
 ''The place really is a mess,'' said Holly A. Fuchs, who shares an apartment at Putnam Green with her mother and who heads the tenants' association. ''There are 34 buildings here; maybe one is completed. There are a lot of gutted units.'' 
 Antares, an aggressive development company with significant holdings nearby, has made its mark by investing in well-situated, high-quality commercial properties, like the Delamar Hotel and the former headquarters of UST Inc., both in Greenwich. The firm, headed by Joseph Beninati and Jim Cabrera, is also the master developer of an 82-acre redevelopment project in Stamford's South End. 
 The troubled condo project creates a ''P.R. and presentation'' problem for Antares as it pursues the $3.5 billion Stamford plan, said Michael Freimuth, the city's economic development director. ''But it's not a concern legally or economically,'' he added, ''because it's a whole different investment group for the South End.'' 
 When Antares bought Putnam Green and Weaver's Hill in February 2006, tenants bemoaned the loss of the last relatively affordable rental complexes in Greenwich. 
 Antares promoted the conversions as a prime investment opportunity, but as it turned out, it had already missed the height of the condo conversion market. 
 ''Nationally, the peak of condominium conversions was in the third quarter of 2005,'' said Sam Chandan, chief economist for Reis Inc., a provider of commercial real estate market information. ''By early 2006, we were seeing a slowdown, partly because apartment building prices had been bid up so much that these projects were becoming prohibitive.'' 
 In addition, real estate experts said, Antares miscalculated how much buyers would pay for condos that, though dressed up as new, still had older heating and plumbing systems. Asking prices for the condos ranged from about $500,000 for a one-bedroom to $1.5 million for a triplex. The upper end of that range was also a stretch for Byram, the modest, densely developed neighborhood where Putnam Green is situated.
 ''The concept was right,'' said Nancy Healy, a partner in Shore & County Properties, a Greenwich brokerage. ''The dollar amount wasn't. That particular product couldn't match the newness of what was being built elsewhere in town.''
 John D. Freeman, Antares's vice president and general counsel, called the disappointing sales ''a reaction to a change in the market,'' and said the company was still negotiating with Lehman and Arch Street Capital Advisors, an equity partner in the deal. ''We remain optimistic that we can reach an agreement with them to move the project forward,'' he said. Lehman Brothers has also been talking with the Atlanta-based Radco Companies, according to a report published in The Wall Street Journal, about the possibility of assuming a role in the Greenwich deal.
 Radco, which is headed by Norman Radow, a lawyer who got his start in New York, has a track record of successful turnarounds in several cities, including Chicago and Boston. As to Radco's possible involvement with the Greenwich projects, Mr. Radow said through a spokesman that ''nothing has been confirmed.'' 
 John Klokel, a tenant at Putnam Green, said Mr. Radow toured the complex on Dec. 19, and suggested that Radco would soon be in charge. ''He said the apartments are going to stay as rentals,'' Mr. Klokel said. ''He assured people that there would be no evictions of people who need a place to live.'' (A spokesman for Mr. Radow's company declined to comment.) 
 Most of the residents are tenants over 62 who are allowed by state law to remain as renters in apartments converted to condominiums. They faced substantial rent increases, but did not have many other affordable options, Ms. Fuchs said. The waiting list for the Greenwich Housing Authority's 291 apartments for the elderly is so long that it has been closed for a year. (It will reopen next month.) 
 The conversion process has subjected older tenants to considerable stress, Ms. Fuchs said. Some have battled Antares in housing court over the fairness of the proposed rent increases and have endured the myriad inconveniences that accompany continuing construction. ''It's so upsetting because it used to be such a nice community,'' she said. 
 At least one younger tenant who was forced to move because he couldn't afford to buy his apartment now says it all worked out for the best. That tenant, Steve West-Rosenthal, who works at the United Nations Federal Credit Union, moved with his family from the Putnam Green triplex they had rented for nearly 20 years to a house they bought in Norwalk. Antares had been asking $1.5 million for the family's triplex; Mr. West-Rosenthal said he had paid ''dramatically less'' for an older house with twice as much space.
 His commute to New York is a little longer, but he said he loved being a homeowner, adding: ''I'm out there mowing the lawn. I built myself a little wood shop downstairs. The whole thing was a blessing in disguise.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BEFORE AND EVENTUALLY: A boarded-up Putnam Green unit with a partly finished new condo in the distance. Work has halted. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%)

COMPANY: UST INC (67%); REIS INC (62%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: REIS (NASDAQ) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (67%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



662 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: An Asian Hub In the Making

BYLINE: By AMY CORTESE

 BODY:
IMAGINE a city with Venice's canals, New York's Central Park and the broad tree-lined boulevards of Paris. And how about the colorful shopping bazaar of Marrakesh, Morocco; the pocket gardens of Savannah, Ga.; and an opera house like the one in Sydney, Australia? Throw in a world-class hospital, convention center and schools, and a sustainable design, and you might think you're lost in a SimCity video game. 
 But such a real-life metropolis of glass, steel and grass is rising on the western coast of South Korea, 40 miles from Seoul, on 1,500 acres of landfill that just a few years ago was water. It is called New Songdo City, and its backers envision it as a major new financial and business hub for northeast Asia. 
 The South Korean government has designated the area as a free economic zone, a bilingual city (Korean and English) where foreigners can own land and run schools and hospitals and where companies can get relief from Korean taxes and bureaucracy. It is also building a seven-mile bridge that will link New Songdo to Incheon International Airport, off the coast. 
 Ambitious new cities have been popping up across Asia and the Middle East. But New Songdo City is among the largest master-planned projects that is privately owned. The project is being developed by New Songdo International City Development, a joint venture of Gale International, based in New York, and Posco Engineering and Construction of South Korea.
 Other high-profile Korean development projects -- from the 1988 Olympics to the 2002 World Cup and the construction of the airport -- have all been national projects. ''As an international company, our role is to partner with Korean government and industry to create an international environment,'' said Stanley C. Gale, the chairman and a managing partner at Gale International. 
 New Songdo will cost an estimated $30 billion to build, atop the $10 billion that the city of Incheon and the Korean government are spending on infrastructure projects. Every six months, $1 billion in construction is scheduled to begin. Morgan Stanley Real Estate is investing $350 million, and in November, Gale lined up $2.7 billion in financing led by Shinhan Bank. 
 New Songdo is expected to open its doors in August 2009, when the first phase of construction, including the bridge and city center, is completed. The project is expected to wrap up by 2015. 
 For Mr. Gale and John B. Hynes III, Gale International's chief executive and a managing partner, Songdo has been a fascinating journey. In 2001, Mr. Hynes, who had recently opened the Boston office for Gale, received an unsolicited phone call from a consultant from Posco: the South Korean government was looking for a developer to lead the Songdo project, and was he interested? Mr. Hynes was, even though he had never been to Asia, and at the time, Gale International had not done any development projects overseas. 
 When Gale International arrived for negotiations, the area planned for building was still underwater. But by the end of 2001, they had signed a deal with Posco and the city of Incheon. 
 It's not every day, of course, that a company has an opportunity to design a city from scratch, especially in such a strategic location. Sandwiched between China and Japan, and within a three-hour plane ride of one-third of the world's population, by Mr. Gale's calculations, New Songdo has the potential to attract Asians and other international workers who want to live in a modern environment. 
 ''Songdo could be to northeast Asia what Shanghai is to southeast Asia,'' said Mr. Gale, from his offices on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, overlooking the 843-acre Central Park, which inspired New Songdo's park. 
 Gale hired the architects Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates, with offices in New York and London, to help create the master plan. James von Klemperer, a principal at the firm, called Songdo ''an architect's dream.'' The guiding design principles were to create a modern, environmentally designed city with mixed-use development and pedestrian-friendly neighborhoods. 
 But there were challenges to overcome. Most cities evolve over time, building by building, overlaying the new with the old -- and it is that organic growth that gives each city its vitality and character. So one concern for the architectural team, Mr. von Klemperer said, was ensuring that New Songdo would not be a sterile planned community. ''How do you design something that feels like a real city center, with its own spirit, character and icons?'' he asked. 
 The design team looked around the world for inspiration, studying what makes great cities great. The resulting plan -- for what it calls a ''synergy city'' -- draws on elements of cultural capitals from New York to Paris to Sydney, but with a distinctly Korean flavor.
 Its 100-acre Central Park will be the centerpiece, with a seawater canal running through it, along with an art museum, an outdoor theater and a sculpture garden. At the park's northern edge will be Park Avenue, a street of high-end residential buildings and hotels. Its Canal Street will be lined with shops and cafes. 
 A variety of architects from around the world have been commissioned to design various buildings, including a shopping center by Daniel Libeskind, a museum by the Swiss architect Peter Zumthor and a Jack Nicklausgolf course. 
 Some of the planners' ideals ran up against Korean preferences, Mr. Gale and Mr. von Klemperer acknowledged. For example, Koreans typically favor large, multilane thoroughfares and large buildings on small plots of land, which don't support a vibrant street life. A significant amount of debate among the Songdo team and Korean officials was required before the plans were completed. 
 Environmental considerations were also a priority. Water is recycled citywide, energy produced locally, and the Central Park is planted with low-maintenance native plants and trees, according to Mr. Gale. There will also be bicycle paths and pedestrian areas, and 40 percent of the city is reserved for parks and green space, he said. 
 All of Songdo's buildings, according to Mr. Gale, will be designed to meet building guidelines known as LEED -- for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design -- from the nonprofit United States Green Building Council. The council's LEED for Neighborhood Development standard for community design is also being applied to the entire city, he said. 
 So far, development has been proceeding at a fast pace. Some 10,000 construction workers are employed at the site, a number that is expected to double in the next 20 months. Gale has 70 people in Seoul and another 70 back home in the United States devoted to the project. Kohn Pedersen Fox has 40 to 50 architects assigned to the job, and the city of Incheon has more than 1,000 employees involved. 
 ''The project is nothing short of a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity,'' said Mr. Hynes, who is the great-grandson of a former mayor of Boston, John B. Hynes.
 Whether Songdo fulfills its ambitions remains to be seen. But its selling point as a Western-style haven in a strategic part of Asia could have broad appeal, said Ashok Raiji, a principal at Arup Engineering, a global design and consulting firm that is working on the project. For international companies looking to establish a major presence in the area, Songdo can provide ''a comfort zone in a foreign land,'' he said. 
 Mr. Gale said that major international companies have already shown keen interest, and that even more is expected after his company's planned push in January to sign up tenants for the signature 68-story Northeast Asia Trade Tower. 
 He said, too, that officespace in Seoul is extremely tight, with vacancy levels hovering around 2 percent, and that this will bode well for Songdo's eventual 50 million square feet of office space. In addition, 2,245 units in Songdo's first residential tower, 1st World Towers, presold in two days in May 2005, he said. 
 Still, Mr. Gale said, he hears from his Korean partners ''pali, pali'' -- the Korean phrase for ''faster, faster.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The New Songdo City development, 40 miles from Seoul in South Korea, will include a convention center, under construction above, and the 1st World Towers, below. John B. Hynes III, below right, and Stanley C. Gale, bottom right, both of Gale International, are overseeing the project. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM GALE INTERNATIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); CITIES (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GREEN BUILDING (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); OLYMPICS (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); LANDFILLS (69%); MULTILINGUALISM (68%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (68%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (68%); AIRPORTS (66%); JOINT VENTURES (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (52%)

COMPANY: POSCO (57%); MORGAN STANLEY REAL ESTATE CO (52%); SHINHAN FINANCIAL GROUP CO LTD (52%)

TICKER: PKX (NYSE) (57%); PIDD (LSE) (57%); 5412 (TSE) (57%); 005490 (KSE) (57%); SHG (NYSE) (52%); 055550 (KSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331222 STEEL WIRE DRAWING (57%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (92%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); MOROCCO (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



663 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: With New Contract, Union's 26,000 Office-Building Workers Avert a Strike

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The union representing 26,000 janitors, doormen and other workers at more than 1,000 New York City office buildings reached a tentative four-year contract with building owners on Saturday, averting a strike threatened for Tuesday.
 The accord, with raises averaging nearly 4 percent a year, was reached as the union, Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, insisted on pay increases that would be higher than the inflation rate.
 The national inflation rate has been 4.3 percent over the past 12 months, and has gone up 10 percent over the past three years. 
 ''Our goal was to get good wage increases so that our members could stay and live in New York City at a time that so many people are being squeezed out,'' said Mike Fishman, president of Local 32BJ. ''We won increases that will help our members stay in the middle class and help keep them from falling into the working poor.''
 The agreement will raise the building service workers' basic wage, currently $19.15 an hour, to $22.65 an hour at the end of the four years. That translates into $906 for a 40-hour week, or $47,112 a year, keeping New York City's building-service workers the highest paid in the nation.
 The settlement covers workers at many prominent buildings, including the Empire State Building, Rockefeller Center and the World Financial Center. 
 Under the contract that expires on Monday, the workers received raises totaling 5 percent over three years; those raises were held down because the building owners had agreed to contribute an unusually large amount into the union's health plan to rescue it from insolvency. 
 ''From a wage standpoint the last agreement was pretty spare on wages,'' said James F. Berg, the president of the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations and management's chief negotiator. ''I don't think this agreement is inconsistent with the cost of living in the city.''
 The union and the Realty Advisory Board announced the agreement at 2 p.m. on Saturday at the Sheraton New York Hotel after a bargaining session reached a tentative settlement at 2:45 a.m. 
 The two sides waited to make the announcement until management's negotiating committee and the union's bargaining committee had approved the deal. 
 Mr. Berg said the agreement, when wage and benefit increases were taken together, included a 4.18 percent annual raise over four years. Under the accord, management will increase its health plan contributions by 20 percent over four years and its pension contributions by 40 percent.
 In addition to those increases, Mr. Berg said, ''We also have achieved mutual understandings that will enable the industry to function smoothly and efficiently over the next four years.''
 In the back and forth of recent weeks, the union asserted that management could afford large raises because Manhattan's commercial real estate commands the highest rents and sale prices per square foot in the nation and because those rents and sale prices have continued to rise in recent years. But management countered that it had to be wary of granting sizable raises because the nation's economy and real estate industry risked being hit by recession.
 ''We made it clear to the Realty Advisory Board that at a time when they're making unprecedented profits, we expected to get substantial increases,'' Mr. Fishman said. ''We live in the same city as they do, but we live in different worlds.''
 Local 32BJ last staged a strike in New York in 1996, inconveniencing hundreds of thousands of office workers in a monthlong walkout that caused managers to scramble to have wastebaskets emptied and bathrooms cleaned. 
 The building service workers in Manhattan will hold a ratification vote over the next month. The building owners are scheduled to vote on the accord next week.
 Over the past three days, Local 32BJ, which represents building service workers from Hartford to Washington, D.C., has also reached tentative contracts for workers in New Jersey, Westchester County, Fairfield County and Hartford, Baltimore, Washington and Montgomery County, Md. The union is still locked in a contract dispute for building-service workers on Long Island.
 Kate Ferranti, a union spokeswoman, said that in those settlements the union has gone far toward its goals of creating national standards for janitors, transforming many jobs from part time to full time and getting many janitors family health coverage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Satisfied union members, from left, Elizabeth Jaramillo, Maria Stawiarz, Luisa Lazo, Elpidio Molina and Richard Grande. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); APPROVALS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



664 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Hold Your Horses? Not Yet

BYLINE: By RICHARD S. CHANG

 BODY:
YEARS from now, we may look back on 2007 as the year the world delivered a body blow to carbon dioxide. Oddly enough, it was also a big year for big horsepower, as in ugly, dirty, gas guzzlin' and pollutin' horsepower. 
 Not that long ago, 400 horses was the realm of supercars. No more. Lately, carmakers have been putting that kind of number into any kind of vehicle. Want a small sedan that really goes? No problem. How about an S.U.V. with oomph? Take your pick. A wagon? What color? 
 The Germans are leading the charge. Audi and BMW have multiple cars with 400-plus horsepower. Mercedes-Benz's high performance AMG division doesn't make a car with less than 400; some have 600. The Porsche Cayenne Turbo -- the latest version was released this year -- comes with 500.
 American automakers are doing their best to keep up. They may be buying expensive airtime to show their affection for butterflies and daisies, but the Cadillac STS-V luxury sedan has 469 horses. The coming Chevy Camaro (the concept has a 400-horsepower V-8), Corvette ZR1 (at least 620) and Dodge Challenger SRT8 (425) could revive the muscle car wars of the '60s. 
 Even the Japanese -- those darlings of environmentalists and hypermilers -- are getting into the act. Next year, Nissan will unleash the twin-turbocharged (read: fuel-sucking) GT-R coupe (480). And Lexus will release the IS-F, an ultra-high performance version of its IS compact sedan (416), which could have enough aero parts for liftoff.
 But as the horsepower party gets off the ground, the end could be in sight. New legislation in the United States and Europe is stricter on carbon-dioxide emissions and fuel economy. Meanwhile, gas prices hover around an all-time high. Automakers will undoubtedly have to put the horsepower genie back in its bottle. But if this is a last gasp for horsepower, it's a deep breath.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 503-HORSE VAN: Mercedes R63. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); LEGISLATION (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (73%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



665 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; CULTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Redevelopment in Yonkers Spurs Public Art

BYLINE: By SUSAN HODARA

DATELINE: Yonkers 

 BODY:
 As developers pour tens of millions of dollars to help revitalize the waterfront and downtown area here, there is growing awareness about the value of supporting a vibrant art scene.
 ''This is an opportunity like never before, to get private money for public art and private performing and visual art,'' said Philip A. Amicone, mayor of Yonkers. ''Those investing in development have come to understand that it's not just the stone, mortar and steel that make a building. It's what surrounds it, what you see when you come outside.''
 Public art is envisioned inside and outside residential and office buildings, along waterfront property that developers are required to dedicate for public use, and along Riverwalk, a promenade bordering portions of the Saw Mill River that will be exposed as part of the plan. Performance groups will benefit from the $25 million renovation of the century-old Proctor Theater near Getty Square into a performances space that will seat 1,800 and provide a permanent home for the Yonkers Philharmonic and a state-of-the-art stage for theater groups. 
 ''We have incorporated a significant amount of art into our plans,'' said Joseph V. Apicella, the executive vice president of Cappelli Enterprises and an executive project manager for Struever Fidelco Cappelli, one of the firms hired by the city. ''We haven't put a figure on it, but it is in the millions of dollars.'' The firm has engaged JMC Art Partners, of New Rochelle, ''to steward the integration of art throughout the project,'' Mr. Apicella said, referring to a $1.5 billion construction plan for the downtown area. 
 Though this level of corporate financing of the arts is new to Yonkers, appreciation for the cultural aspects of development is not. For decades, the city -- the largest in Westchester and the fourth largest in New York -- has been home to numerous artists and arts organizations that have been funded through a variety of city, county, state, federal, private and corporate sources. 
 This support has enabled the creation of public art pieces like Vinnie Bagwell's 1996 statue of Ella Fitzgerald in Yonkers's MetroNorth Plaza and Richard Haas's trompe l'oeil murals, ''Gateway to the Waterfront,'' painted in 1997 on the facades of several downtown buildings. It has also contributed to the creation of Sculpture Meadow on the Hudson, a sculpture park completed in 2003 along the waterfront, and ''Muhheakantuck,'' two 72-foot-long aluminum waves adorning both sides of the viaduct over Main Street, designed by Barbara Segal, a Yonkers sculptor, in 2005. Blue Door Artist Association, a collective founded in 2002 that now has more than 60 members, has relied on these varied sources to mount its exhibitions, and, in 2005, to initiate a program providing money to artists to decorate concrete planters and garbage receptacles downtown and along South Broadway. 
 In recent months, the pace has accelerated. Awareness of the potential of developers' dollars, before they have been put on the table or even specified, is spurring increased funding from traditional sources. 
 ''Art is no longer considered a perk, but a necessity,'' said Steve Sansone, who is president of the Untermyer Performing Arts Council, which presents an annual series of cultural programs in Untermyer Park, and a board member of Youth Theatre Interactions, a performing arts school for children. ''People are thirsty for it, and the city is adapting accordingly.''
 In April, Blue Door instituted a changing exhibit of outdoor sculpture in front of City Hall. 
 In May, the city announced the winner of a public art competition it sponsored. Stacy Levy, a Pennsylvania sculptor, was awarded $200,000 for ''Tide Poles,'' which will consist of 20-foot poles along the waterfront, each with light-emitting diodes programmed to change color with the shifting Hudson River tides. 
 Also in May, six garbage trucks from the Department of Public Works took to the streets in colorful ''wraps'' designed by the winners of another city-sponsored competition.
 In October, Francesca Samsel of Yorktown completed ''Woven Gifts,'' a 20-foot-by-85-foot mural on a wall bordering a parking lot off South Broadway.
 Last month, Blue Door received $15,000 from Yonkers-based Domino Sugar to launch Yonkers Green Wall, in which high school students will create environmentally themed murals on plywood to be mounted on park fences in the spring. Earlier this month, the Westchester Arts Council announced the recipients of its first Yonkers Cultural Initiative grants program, which distributed $50,000 to eligible Yonkers-based nonprofits. The grantees were Blue Door; the Yonkers Philharmonic Orchestra; the Untermyer Performing Arts Council; Youth Theatre Interactions; and Hamm & Clov Stage Company, which produces community-based theater. 
 ''With this initiative,'' said Janet T. Langsam, the council's executive director, ''the Board of Legislators has made a statement that arts and culture are a vital part of Yonkers's growth, and that they need to keep pace.''
 The Initiative also serves as an example. Spearheaded by a county legislator, Kenneth W. Jenkins, its secondary intent was to prompt comparable funding from the city. According to Patricia D. McDow, the majority leader of City Council, Yonkers is rising to the challenge. ''We're looking to match the initiative that the county has so graciously provided as part of our capital improvement budget to be presented in March,'' she said.
 This fall, seven key players in the city's cultural scene formed Yonkers Arts to serve ''as an advocate for all the arts,'' said one of the organizers, Luis Perelman, Blue Door's co-founder and director. The group has already established a Web site with a calendar of local arts events. Its mission statement speaks of ''encouraging the public and private sectors to support the city's artists and arts organizations.''
 Michael Botwinick, director of the Hudson River Museum, on the northern end of the city, said he ''feels the energy reaching up from the development downtown,'' with talk of public riverfront access and an amphitheater on its grounds. 
 ''For a long time, Yonkers has been a no-go zone for the rest of Westchester,'' he said. ''The master plan for the future is changing that.'' As for gentrification threatening artists currently living in the city, Mr. Botwinick's perspective was reassuring. ''Unlike SoHo,'' he said, ''Yonkers is fairly aggressive in its commitment to affordable housing. Compared to New York City, Yonkers will always be a significant value.'' 
 Artists have already discovered inexpensive studios in parts of the former Alexander Smith carpet factory on Nepperhan Avenue, which at its peak in the early 20th century encompassed over 45 buildings. In one of those buildings, an artists' community called YoHo consists of 26 resident artists and seven guest artists who rent renovated studio space there. Three other mill buildings are being converted into loft units by Randolph J. Rose. Mr. Rose, whose Asian antiques business has been located there since the 1980s, bought the five-story, 170,000-square-foot property in March. 
 Looking ahead, Holly Villaire, artistic director of Hamm & Clov, dreams of the riverfront neighborhood becoming a ''mini cultural center,'' she said, ''with a small theater, comedy club, jazz club, and art galleries, where people could come by ferry and walk along the water.'' 
 Mr. Perelman has identified at least 20 morewalls throughout the city that would lend themselves to murals. ''There's so much more to do here,'' he said. 
 Ms. Segal, another Yonkers Arts organizer, hopes for the chance to work with more substantial financing. ''There is potential to have a real impact if the level of funding is appropriate for the site under consideration,'' she said. 
 From where she stands, at least some of these dreams can be realized. ''It's all about to happen for everyone as long as we can all work together,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BIG IDEAS: A sculpture installation at City Hall Park in Yonkers. (pg. 2)
 SPLASHY: Francesca Samsel finishing a mural in Yonkers in October. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); THEATER (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); PAINTING (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (65%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (61%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



666 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SCARED SILENT; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2043 words

HEADLINE: So Many Crimes, and Reasons to Not Cooperate

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J. 

 BODY:
When her 16-year-old son was shot dead on a street corner here in June, Rosalynn Glasco became the latest mother left to search for justice in a world without witnesses -- where the stigma of being seen as a snitch or the fear of retaliation prevents many from testifying about even the worst crimes. 
 But Ms. Glasco held out some hope, all the same. Determined not to let her son's killer go unpunished, she urged her daughter and other relatives to work the grapevine in the neighborhood where he was killed, Whitman Park, searching for evidence, and maybe somebody willing to share it.
 Discovering nothing, she pressed on. 
 Ms. Glasco's extended family put together fliers and started assembling a Web site to publicize a reward. She gathered her life savings and set the figure for information at $5,000. She delayed posting it because Camden detectives asked her to wait, saying they had promising leads in the investigation. 
 The leads fizzled; a trip to see the mayor produced more promises of effort, but no arrests. The murder of Ms. Glasco's son, Salahuddin Igwe -- shot at 5 a.m. as he walked home from a party -- remains unsolved.
 Ms. Glasco is disappointed. She is also realistic. If the tables were turned, she admits, and if another mother were at her doorstep asking for information, she is not sure she would help, either.
 ''Snitching, telling on people, isn't something that I personally would involve myself with,'' she said in an interview last week. ''People don't want to talk to you if they think you're a snitch. If they were your friends, they're not your friends anymore. You're left totally all alone.''
 As the most violent neighborhood in one of the nation's most dangerous cities, the Whitman Park section of Camden is on the front lines of the struggle with witness intimidation. An array of powerful forces converge here to discourage people from cooperating with the investigation of crimes -- crimes committed against their own homes, their own neighbors, their own children.
 Drugs are sold openly from street corners and abandoned row houses. Gunfire is a neighborhood soundtrack. And the competing gangs that control Whitman Park have made it clear that the price for defying them is death. Within blocks of the street where Ms. Glasco's son was killed, six people were murdered in less than a year.
 Yet many residents of Whitman Park say their reluctance to help investigators is based on more than just fear of gang retaliation. It is also a consequence of their deep distrust of the local police and prosecutors and politicians. Like residents of many other struggling, predominantly black and Hispanic neighborhoods across the country, people here complain that racial profiling, police corruption and the excesses of the war on drugs have made them suspicious of virtually any arm of government.
 Atmosphere of Distrust
 It was here in Whitman Park, after all, that a once-lauded community police officer was sentenced to prison last year for robbing drug dealers. And it was here that Gov. Christie Whitman was photographed frisking a young black man who had been falsely suspected of carrying drugs, an image that surfaced publicly in 2000 and came to symbolize New Jersey law enforcement's longstanding practice of racial profiling.
 And that is not all. The neighborhood's grim economic and social realities, which have convinced any number of young people here that drug dealing is the best job available, leaves many law-abiding residents with conflicting loyalties.
 There are so many people in the neighborhood with friends or relatives in the drug business that to help police arrest a dealer may jeopardize a family's financial security.
 It adds up, the police say, to an environment where they encounter people who, however much they despise the gangs, are more comfortable coexisting with the Bloods, Crips or Latin Kings than assisting the police. 
 ''There's a lot of history and a lot of reasons for people to stay quiet that are hard to understand unless you're from there,'' said Capt. Al Handy of the Camden police. ''We've been trying to work with people and win back the trust. But it's a long, long process.''
 The social stigma against helping the police has become an exasperating obstacle confronting officials as they try to combat increased gang violence in urban communities. According to Deputy Attorney General Hester Agudosi, who supervises New Jersey's 21 county prosecutor's offices, the number of witnesses who remain silent because they fear for their safety is probably less than one-tenth the number who refuse to talk because they fear the social repercussions.
 One small, glaring symptom of the dilemma is the ''Stop Snitchin''' movement, an underground effort, popularized in rap videos and with T-shirts, urging criminals not to testify against other suspects in exchange for more lenient sentences. But the sense of estrangement is far broader, crossing generational lines and testing the consciences of people whose only involvement with crime is as a victim or potential witness. 
 ''A lot of white Americans from suburban communities can't understand why people wouldn't talk to law enforcement,'' said Charles Ogletree, a Harvard law professor who is studying witness intimidation for the National District Attorneys Association. ''But in a lot of inner-city communities, there is so much hostility to the police that many people of color can't fathom why someone would even seriously consider helping them.''
 In Whitman Park, a neighborhood of less than half a square mile that is home to 6,000 people, young men in black hooded sweatshirts are a fixture on street corners and front stoops, openly flagging down drivers to offer cocaine. Of the 43 murders that the Camden police have reported this year, seven have occurred there.
 The reasons for not talking about those murders -- or other crimes -- can be varied.
 ''Let's say you make a police report and they run your name and find out you have a warrant from five or six years ago you forgot about,'' said Verdell Peterson, 52. ''In this neighborhood, $250 is a lot of money, and if you don't have it to pay your bail, you're going to sit in jail until someone else does.''
 'You Might Get Killed'
 But many say that steering clear of the police is a matter of trust, and survival.
 Neil Reynolds, 18, said that his upbringing in Whitman Park taught him that ''the wrong friends will get you shot and cops will get you shot or locked up.'' 
 ''If you talk to the police, you might get killed,'' said Mr. Reynolds, who has a record for narcotics sales but says he is now trying to leave the drug business. But even those who aren't physically harmed, he said, face repercussions. ''No one wants anything to do with you, because when they get in trouble, they think you'll tell on them, too.'' 
 At Community Baptist Church, where funeral services have been held for a half-dozen of Whitman Park's murder victims in recent years, the Rev. David King said an entire generation of Whitman Park children were being raised to fear the police.
 Working from a run-down building with oil poured on unused doorways to prevent narcotics dealers from congregating, Mr. King runs anti-gang and drug rehabilitation programs and urges church members to keep an open mind about the police. But last month, when a police officer who is well known and well liked at the church crashed his car out front, Mr. King said he was dismayed to see neighborhood children cheering.
 ''All they could see was his uniform,'' he said.
 Police and prosecutors have tried various strategies to regain the trust of Camden residents in recent years. The Shooting Response Team, which quickly floods the scene of any gun crime with a crew of city, county and state investigators, has been credited with an improved response to gun crimes. Statistics indicate that the department has tripled its success in solving shootings, to 42 percent in 2006 from 14 percent in 2003.
 But efforts to strengthen the community policing efforts in the neighborhood and start a neighborhood watch program were set back late last year when the officer assigned to Whitman Park, Cpl. Michael Hearne, was arrested on charges that he and an accomplice had been robbing drug dealers at gunpoint.
 Corporal Hearne pleaded guilty and is serving a seven-year prison term. 
 Even those residents who are willing to trust the police can be dissuaded from reporting drug activity to the authorities because narcotics have become such an integral part of Whitman Park's economy. Steven Carmichael, a postal carrier who is acting president of the United Neighbors of Whitman Park, said that in many instances people are ambivalent because they want to drive off the drug dealers, but are friends with their parents.
 ''Do you say something to the parent? But maybe the parents already know and are afraid to put the kid out on the street where he might get shot or killed,'' said Mr. Carmichael, whose cousin across town was killed by rival drug dealers last year. ''Or maybe the parents are out of work and don't ask where he gets that money so long as it helps them put food on the table. From the outside it seems black and white, but out here, things get complicated.''
 Things certainly got complicated for Mr. Carmichael after his cousin's death.
 ''I couldn't go to the funeral because people know I try to help the police,'' he said.
 In November, when detectives were stymied in the case of 12-year-old boy killed in a Camden housing project, investigators brought the child's mother up from Florida to canvass the neighborhood in hopes that a ''mother to mother'' conversation with people near the scene of the shooting might encourage witnesses to come forward.
 The case remains unsolved.
 Little Help From the Top
 Ms. Glasco had hoped to help her son Salahuddin, known as Sal, avoid the temptations and perils of Camden, and so in 2005 she moved with him to Lindenwold, a suburb. Although his father is in prison and his sister has had brushes with the law, Sal was the child who everyone had hoped might at least escape the city.
 One of Sal's jobs was at the Boys and Girls Club of Cherry Hill, near Whitman Park. He frequently spent the night at his sister's home, on Thurman Street, and socialized with friends down the block.
 One June night he never made it back to his sister's. Ms. Glasco eventually found herself on the telephone with a detective, who, she recalled, ''told me that he was sorry to inform me that my son had been killed.''
 From the outset of the investigation, detectives warned the family that witnesses would be difficult to come by. But Ms. Glasco was adamant that she was ''not going to let this one go.'' 
 So she went looking for witnesses.
 ''I wanted to let them know this was about a mother and her son,'' she said. ''And maybe that would make them do the right thing.''
 She and her relatives would shake loose a nickname of a potential suspect, but turn up little else. The police did little better.
 A meeting in September with Mayor Gwendolyn A. Faison offered one glimmer of hope when the mayor picked up the telephone a few minutes into the conversation and got the deputy police commissioner on the line. There was little follow-up, however, and Ms. Faison said she wasn't surprised: Camden's government has been under state supervision for nearly 20 years because of corruption, so the police do not report to her.
 ''I can call, and I did,'' Mayor Faison said, ''but I have no authority over them.''
 The Camden police declined to discuss the case, but the Camden County prosecutors say they are satisfied with the detectives' work and optimistic that they're moving toward an arrest.
 Since her son's death, Ms. Glasco said, she is often not certain where to focus her anger. She is infuriated with the killer and frustrated with the police. She is anguished by the thought that someone knows who is responsible, but is too scared or cynical to come forward. And she is honest enough to understand why they might not.
 Still, she pleads.
 ''People have to put themselves in my shoes,'' she said. ''I'm a mother with a dead kid. And the person who did it is out there, smiling, thinking that they got it made.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ECONOMIC REALITIES: Steven Carmichael, in car, talks to Verdell Peterson, center. Mr. Carmichael, a community activist, said residents won't help police fight the drug trade because they fear losing income.
WORKING TO RESCUE A NEIGHBORHOOD: The Rev. David King of Community Baptist Church runs anti-gang and drug rehabilitation programs. He wants people to be open-minded about the police. (pg. 22)
 MOURNING THEIR DEAD: A memorial to Otis Tolliver in the Camden, N.J., neighborhood of Whitman Park. Rosalynn Glasco, below, with a photograph of her son, Salahuddin Igwe, 16, who was shot dead in June, and a memorial to him in the same neighborhood. Ms. Glasco tried to find leads, but said she understood why no one would come forward. (pg. 21)(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(PHOTOGRAPH BY SYLWIA KAPUSCINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); MURDER (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (78%); FAMILY (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); RACIAL PROFILING (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); CHILDREN (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (66%); INTERVIEWS (64%); DRUG POLICY (60%); RACE & RACISM (60%); GANGS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



667 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Paris Isn't Burning

BYLINE: By CORINNE MAIER. 
Corinne Maier is the author of ''Bonjour Laziness: Why Hard Work Doesn't Pay.'' This article was translated by The Times from the French.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
 ''GOD smokes Cuban cigars,'' Catherine Deneuve sang more than 25 years ago in a song that's still famous here. The cigarette is part of our international image, alongside the baguette and the slenderness of French women. 
 The reality is different, though. True, the French smoke a bit more than Americans, but we smoke somewhat less than some of our European neighbors, like the Austrians, the Greeks and the Dutch. 
 What is more notable is that the French have lagged in the West's antismoking fight. America is at war against cigarettes. Ireland and Norway banished them in public spaces in 2004. They were soon followed by Italy, Spain, Sweden and Britain. 
 But things are changing here. Last year, the government decided to act. Prohibiting smoking in public places shows resolve to the voters, after all, a majority of whom favor banning cigarettes altogether.
 Banishing tobacco is easier than solving the problems of the slums or reducing unemployment among young people. In October 2006, six months before this year's presidential elections, Prime Minister Dominque de Villepin issued a decree that barred smoking in public places (government offices, schools, hospitals and the like), starting in February 2007. Cafes, restaurants and nightclubs received a reprieve until Jan. 2, 2008. So, beginning on Wednesday, smoking will now be allowed only in sealed rooms that meet strict standards. 
 Sixteen years ago, France was the pioneer of the West's antitobacco fight with its Evin law, which required no-smoking areas in restaurants and cafes. But this law has been routinely ignored, in the way the French usually do with laws that displease them. Thus, France is, for a few more days, one of the last countries in Europe where you can smoke in public while you eat and drink.
 Will the new prohibition be respected? Is this the end of the traditional morning cigarette savored with coffee at the bistro? ''We'll see,'' some say, ready to bet this ban will have no more effect than the first. 
 The state, after all, profits from a laissez-faire attitude toward smoking. France has imposed high taxes on tobacco: 80 percent of the sale price of a cigarette pack (the average is five euros, or about $7.35) goes into the state treasury. 
 These taxes bring in more than 10 billion euros a year. Isn't it shocking to earn money by taxing what is properly called a drug? The government responds by saying that the money subsidizes the social cost of tobacco, a plague that causes about 65,000 deaths a year in France. Lobbying by the multinational companies that dominate the French market (the biggest is Altadis, a French-Spanish company, followed by Philip Morris and British American Tobacco) also has something to do with the French tolerance of tobacco.
 But others fear that smoking in public will become increasingly difficult. Although a prohibition on smoking in bars and restaurants will be harder to enforce, the ban in hospitals, schools and other places that began in February has been widely obeyed. Our Italian neighbors are also very punctilious about respecting their antismoking legislation, which went into effect in January 2005. 
 When he goes to Italy, the French writer Michel Houellebecq, an inveterate smoker, is obliged to meet with journalists in his hotel room. Cigarette in hand, he is now persona non grata in the lobby, at the bar, in the restaurant.
 For simple economic reasons, the French smoker could rapidly become an endangered species. French cigarettes are among the most expensive in Europe, their price rising ceaselessly since 1991. 
 But some will always resist the antismoking campaign and manage to buy cheaper cigarettes. The black market is flourishing, and cartons of cigarettes bought on the cheap across the border circulate widely. On my trips to other countries, I have begun the custom of bringing back a carton for one or another of my smoking friends. 
 ''Another blow to the enemy!'' is the ritual phrase that greets this gift. In France, smokers tend to consider themselves as members of the resistance. 
 Resisting the dictatorship of health and the dictates of hygienic standards: vive la liberte of smoking! And everyone knows that in France, nobody has made jokes about liberty since the Revolution. Shall we start depicting Marianne, the emblem of the Republic, with a cigarette in her mouth? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (91%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SMOKING BANS (78%); LOBBYING (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); EURO (64%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (58%); ALTADIS SA (50%)

TICKER: BTI (NYSE MKT) (58%); BTI (JSE) (58%); BATS (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (58%); SIC2121 CIGARS (50%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (90%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORWAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



668 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL IN OFFICE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: Immigration and the Candidates

 BODY:
Even by the low standards of presidential campaigns, the issue of immigration has been badly served in the 2008 race. Candidates -- and by this we mean the Republicans, mostly -- have been striking poses and offering prescriptions that sound tough but will solve nothing. They have distorted or disowned their pasts and attacked one another ferociously, but over appearances, not ideas -- over who can claim to be the authentic scourge of illegal immigrants, and who is the Lou-Dobbs-Come-Lately. 
 Voters deserve much better than what these candidates have given them. The Democrats have done better, though they have not always responded with the courage and specifics this difficult issue demands. Before voters pick a candidate and a president, they should insist on serious answers to questions like these:
 What should be the role of immigrant labor in our economy? How does the country maximize its benefits and lessen its ill effects? Once the border is fortified, what happens to the 12 million illegal immigrants already here? Should they be expelled or allowed to assimilate? How? What about the companies that hire them? 
 And what about the future flow of workers? Should the current system of legal immigration, with its chronic backlogs and morbid inefficiencies, be tweaked or trashed? What is the proper role of state and local governments in enforcing immigration laws? And will a national identity card for immigrants bring on Big Brother for everyone?
 The first thing to know about the Republicans' immigration debate is that it is not much of a debate. The candidates speak essentially with one voice, calling for a bristling border and stiffer penalties against companies that hire the undocumented. Some call for new instruments of law and order, like tamper-proof ID cards.
 There is wide support for stricter enforcement. Not many people favor the underground economy. No one is calling for more immigrants to sneak over the border or to overstay their visas, or for less oversight and looser hiring rules in the workplace. Pretty much every candidate in both parties wants the government to bolster the border -- even Bill Richardson, the Democratic governor of New Mexico, who calls the fence ridiculous. (He wants more military boots on the ground.)
 The problem is that the country cannot build a fence or send troops and expect its problems to go away. Huge numbers of illegal immigrants never go anywhere near the border: about 40 percent enter legally and overstay their visas. Nor can the government purge workplaces of illegal workers without doing vast damage to the economy. At some point it must address the 12 million undocumented, who cannot be deported en masse.
 Most of the Republicans have no answer for what to do with those 12 million, except to argue for ''attrition through enforcement,'' the hard-liners' strategy of making immigrants' lives miserable and waiting for them to leave. Some of the Republicans have called on the government to identify and track all who overstay their visas, without specifying how to do that or pay for it.
 Instead of answering these questions, the Republican candidates have spent their time blasting one another as coddlers of illegal immigrants and supporters of ''amnesty.'' This has proved tricky, however, for the candidates who in previous lives had to deal with immigration in the real world, where immigrant energy and low-end labor -- both legal and illegal -- tend to bolster economies and make life easier for everyone.
 Only two years ago, while governor of Massachusetts, Mitt Romney spoke favorably of a Senate bill that offered illegal immigrants a path to citizenship. Now he says he hates amnesty, condemns Rudolph Giuliani for having been mayor of a ''sanctuary city'' and has accepted endorsements from hard-liners like Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Ariz., who hounds immigrant day laborers as aggressively as he chases headlines. 
 Mr. Romney still has had a hard time explaining his own connections to illegal immigration. He was caught -- twice -- having a landscaping company with undocumented workers tend to his lavish property. When pressed on that he got testy. ''Let's say I go to a restaurant,'' he said to reporters. ''Should I make sure that all the waiters there are all legal? How would I do that?'' 
 It is a good question -- especially since some 12 percent of the workers in the food service industry are believed to be undocumented -- and one we would like Mr. Romney and his fellow candidates to answer seriously.
 Mr. Romney is not the only one struggling to reconcile his past policies with his present ambitions. Mr. Giuliani once welcomed undocumented immigrants and sued the federal government to preserve an executive order that shielded them from deportation. Now he links immigration and terrorism in the same breath, and talks of cracking the whip through databases and enforcement schemes with names like BorderStat. 
 For a while it looked as if Mike Huckabee would be a sensibly contrarian Republican. As governor of Arkansas he supported financial aid for illegal-immigrant students, and when Mr. Romney rebuked him for it in a debate, he scolded right back, ''Our country is better than that, to punish children for what their parents did.'' Then this month he did a stunning backflip, unveiling his ''Secure America Plan,'' which would require the expulsion of all illegal immigrants within 120 days. And last week, after the assassination of Benazir Bhutto, he used the turmoil in Pakistan as an argument for building a border fence, and said the United States needed to watch whether ''there's any unusual activity of Pakistanis coming into the country.''
 The single voice of reason in the Republican camp is Senator John McCain. He was an original sponsor of a comprehensive immigration bill that married enforcement with a guest-worker program and a path to citizenship for those who earn it. For this he saw his presidential hopes nearly blown to bits. He is hanging on, though. He was AWOL for a time when the Senate bill was killed last summer, but has since regained his voice. He speaks of immigrants as ''God's children'' and stoutly defends the path to citizenship for the undocumented. Given what he has gone through, his stance is close to heroic.
 The Democratic candidates start in a better place, since they and their party are largely on record as firmly supporting the pillars of comprehensive reform. There are no demagogues in their ranks.
 But there are timid fumblers, like Senator Hillary Clinton, who first supported then rejected a plan by Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York to let illegal immigrants earn driver's licenses. She was right at first to defend Mr. Spitzer's logic, but wrong to then back away from the firestorm that he ignited. She did not inspire confidence as someone who will have the courage to do what is necessary and right even if it is controversial. 
 Mrs. Clinton, like Mr. Richardson, Senators John Edwards and Barack Obama, and the rest of the Democratic field, did vigorously support the one piece of legislation that might have led the country out of its immigration morass. That was the ambitious Senate bill that died under a Republican-led assault in June. 
 The bill was flawed, but it contained the seeds of true reform. It chose assimilation over expulsion for the 12 million. It leveled with Americans by acknowledging that a border fence would never end lawlessness by itself. It grasped a fundamental moral truth that the Republicans -- again, with the notable exception of Mr. McCain -- have rejected. The truth is this: Americans cannot expect immigrants to serve them -- to make their beds and meals, feed their babies and ailing parents, and pick their crops -- while living in fear and hopelessness.
 One of the strong arguments for passing immigration reform last summer was that it was a last chance. If Congress did not seize it, the presidential race would blot out hopes of reform for two years or more. 
 Congress did not seize it, and all the problems are still there. The issue has left the country divided, fretful and ambivalent, and voters are yearning for honesty and thoughtfulness. The Republicans are not giving it to them. The Democrats should fill the vacuum. They have said the right things. Amid all the Republican shouting, it would help if they would speak louder. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); NATIONAL IDENTITY CARDS (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (66%); ARMED FORCES (60%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



669 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: What's in a Bowl Name? History and Geography

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
History provides a touch of sweet coincidence for the 2008 Sugar Bowl, when the undefeated University of Hawaii takes the field against Georgia: When the idea for the annual classic was first floated in the 1920s, Louisiana was the nation's sugar-growing king -- but only because Hawaii was a territory whose harvests were not being counted by the United States Department of Agriculture.
 Still, history and geography are the real reasons New Orleans's premier college football game is called the Sugar Bowl. The game's original stadium was built on land where Etienne de Bore became the first person in La Louisiane to crystallize sugar into granules. 
 It was 1795. The indigo crop, until then a major moneymaker, had collapsed after two years of drought followed by two of a plague of insects that stripped the stalks naked. Plantation owners were near bankruptcy.
 De Bore gambled on sugar. Friends and in-laws counseled against it. Although sugar was produced in Saint-Domingue, a French colony, nobody in Louisiana had been able to make anything more portable than molasses from the cane's sweet juice.
 De Bore looked up sugar makers who had fled Saint-Domingue when their slaves rebelled in 1791 (the start of the revolution that created Haiti). They had the skill and technology he needed. De Bore became rich, and sugar quickly became a major crop.
 In a quirk of history, the sugar industry in Louisiana nearly collapsed in 1926, the year before the publisher and the sports editor of The New Orleans Item floated the idea of an annual football game called the Sugar Bowl at Tulane Stadium.
 Diseases had cut sugar cane production by two-thirds. But no other state was producing sugar at the time. Hawaii, however, was producing seven tons or more, according to the Hawaii state agriculture department's Web site.
 Imports of Javanese varieties added disease resistance that helped bring back Louisiana's sugar industry. Production, which had fallen from 3.3 million tons of cane in 1925 to 1.1 million tons in 1926, was up to 2.1 million by 1928, and 3.1 million a year later.
 The Item's publisher, James M. Thomson, and its sports editor, Fred Digby, were having less success with their proposal for a Sugar Bowl. New Orleans's mayor, A. J. O'Keefe, asked the Southern Conference in 1929 to back such a game, but he was spurned.
 It was not until 1934 that New Orleans business, civic, professional and athletic organizations created The Mid-Winter Sports Association to develop the Sugar Bowl.
 The association's efforts paid off in 1935, when Tulane beat Temple in a battle of undefeated teams. The trophy was a replica of a silver wine cooler that was crafted in 1830 and donated by a French Quarter antiques dealer.
 These days, Louisiana is the nation's No. 2 sugar producer, behind Florida, with Hawaii well behind. But sugar is Louisiana's No. 1 row crop, once processing is taken into account.
 ''There are other crops, like corn and soybeans, that may consume more acreage, but sugar is worth considerably more,'' said Jim Simon, the general manager of the American Sugar Cane League.
 This year's crop is still being harvested, but last year's was worth $538 million, compared with $357 million for cotton, according to the LSU AgCenter.
 The 2007 Sugar Bowl game between Louisiana State and Notre Dame brought in $68.7 million, with an estimated economic impact of $126.7 million. With unexpectedly high numbers of Hawaii fans buying tickets, and Georgia a team that always brings an enthusiastic crowd, the 2008 matchup is likely to be bigger.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR FARMING (90%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); SUGAR MFG (89%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); HISTORY (74%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (71%); DROUGHT (71%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



670 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SPENDING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Drawn to an Island Life, and Seeing the Cost in Every Price Tag

BYLINE: By PERRY GARFINKEL

 BODY:
MONA AND BARRY ROSENTHAL remember the precise moment they decided to move from Canton, Mass., south of Boston, to Martha's Vineyard, six miles off the southern tip of Cape Cod. 
 ''Mona was staring out our kitchen window at a monstrous trophy house going up practically in our backyard,'' said Mr. Rosenthal, 57, who owns BR Creative, a boutique ad agency specializing in entertainment and consumer product branding. ''She was crying. I said, 'You know what? Let's move to the Vineyard.''' 
 Six months later, in September 1995, they and their two pre-teenage children were unpacking in the three-bedroom Cape style house they had bought that year as their vacation home. 
 ''It was an entirely emotional decision,'' said Mr. Rosenthal, who with his wife and his brother also acquired a Vineyard nightclub, Outerland, two years ago and began to learn at first hand about the ups and downs of the island's seasonal economy. ''If we crunched the numbers, we might not have done it. But I couldn't imagine working in a 50-story building for the rest of my life, and we loved how we felt on the island.'' 
 But like other islanders around the world, the Rosenthals found that their paradise came at a price. Island chambers of commerce and commissions estimate that the costs of products on islands can run from 25 percent to as much as 60 percent higher than those in nearby mainland cities, mostly because of added shipping expenses. And island services are often more expensive and sometimes exasperatingly slower in delivery than new islanders expect. 
 That's not all: salaries are generally lower, and then throw in the expense of taking a ferry or plane back to the rest of the world. 
 FOUR years ago, Dick Holtzman also made an emotional choice when he moved with his wife, Sheila, and youngest child from Scottsdale, Ariz., to the island of Kauai (population 60,000) in Hawaii.
 ''Scottsdale was turning into L.A.,'' said Mr. Holtzman, 53, now president of the Kukui'ula Development Company, a thousand-acre luxury resort and residential complex to open near Poipu Beach on Kauai in 2009. ''Personally, I felt like I was stagnating.''
 More than the job opportunity, however, was the pull of the islands. Though he was born on the mainland, he grew up on Oahu. 
 ''I've taken an initial hit financially and my wife went into sticker shock the first year at the price of milk, but our bottom line is balanced by how much we love living here,'' he said. ''Even bad days are tolerable living in paradise.''
 More people are moving to what demographers call ''amenity areas'': nonmetropolitan regions with large percentages of seasonal housing, high expenditures for recreational activities and hotels, and a significant concentration of natural amenities like shoreline. Many islands fit that definition. 
 ''Demographers often say people vote with their feet by moving,'' said Kenneth M. Johnson, who is researching trends and conditions in small-town America as senior demographer at the Carsey Institute at the University of New Hampshire. ''In that case, it certainly appears that one of the places they're voting for is islands.''
 On Martha's Vineyard alone, the year-round population has risen to 15,500 from 6,000 in 1970. That growth rate is seven times that of Massachusetts over all and three times that of the rest of the country, according to the Martha's Vineyard Commission. In the summer, the Vineyard's population can swell to an estimated 120,000.
 Living on an island has become a drastic form of cocooning.
 ''It's not just the romantic fantasy of what islands represent in literature and mythology or people's own vacation memories,'' said Joshua Calder, director of the global lifestyles project for Social Technologies, a research firm based in Washington, and an island buff with his own Web site, www.WorldIslandInfo.com. ''It's also the fact that bodies of water separate them from everything they want to escape on the mainland -- development, traffic, stressed-out work lives, anonymity in urban and suburban communities, bad relationships. Once on the ferry, they leave all that behind.''
 And now, thanks to the Internet, they can have their isolation and stay connected to the world as much, or as little, as they want.
 Most island economies, once buoyed by agriculture and fishing, depend on the ebb and flow of seasonal tourism, so year-round islanders learn how to make as much money as possible in the high season, then squirrel it away to tide them over in the lean off-season months. They take trips off their islands to buy in bulk at warehouse club discount chains, and they often cobble together a living by wearing several revenue-producing hats. 
 Mark Hampton, a native of the British Channel island of Jersey (population 91,300), says that on his isle ''we have a history of doing almost anything to make ends meet.'' In winter, fishermen from his island used to knit sweaters made of wool and oil; those sweaters were named jerseys.
 ''It's a common story for island folk around the world,'' said Mr. Hampton, who is director of the Center for Tourism in Islands and Coastal Areas at the University of Kent in Canterbury, England, and treasurer of the International Small Islands Studies Association. ''The economic survival strategy is to keep lots of fingers in many pies.''
 Kassia Sing and Ed Kaufman, both 45, used another strategy after finding the island of their dreams by surfing the Internet. They downsized their lives, by choice. Three years ago, they sold their house in Portland, Ore., and settled with their two children, both of elementary school age, on Bainbridge Island (population 20,300), a 30-minute ferry ride from downtown Seattle. (A 2005 CNN/Money poll called Bainbridge Island the second-best place to live in America, after Moorestown, N.J.)
 ''After more than 20 years as a corporate finance executive, I was burned to a crisp,'' Ms. Sing said. ''We wanted a sane home life and we wanted community.'' She took a huge pay cut to head up the Bainbridge Community Foundation. Mr. Kaufman now works as a loan officer for an island bank, for 30 percent less than he said he could have made for the same job in Seattle.
 Even after selling their four-bedroom, three-bath split-level 1960s house in Oregon, they had to dip into their savings to buy a three-bedroom, 2.5-bath 1989 tract house on Bainbridge, where the average home price is close to $820,000, according to 2007 data from the Bainbridge Island Chamber of Commerce.
 For many people, owning a piece of the rock is an ever-fading oasis on the horizon. And even those whose landholding lineage goes way back may have to be creative cobblers. 
 Jeremy Mayhew, 31, traces his Martha's Vineyard ties to 1641, when a direct forebear, Thomas Mayhew, an English merchant living in Watertown, Mass., bought the Vineyard, Nantucket and the Elizabeth Islands and sent his son to settle the Vineyard. Much more recently, Jeremy Mayhew decided against the sword-fishing tradition of his father and grandfather and instead became a filmmaker and motion graphics designer. 
 ''MY grandfather grew up on land his father subdivided; my father and his brothers did the same,'' Mr. Mayhew said. ''Now, however, with my generation, we are running out of land.'' His film ''Striker's Passing'' documents his family's dying industry. He and his wife, Michele, also 31, were living in Philadelphia when they came to the Vineyard for the film's premier in 1999. 
 ''I intended to live somewhere else, but she fell in love with this place,'' he recalled. Since then, he has held jobs as a carpenter, commercial fisherman, assistant film editor, co-founder of the Martha's Vineyard Independent Film Festival and freelance graphics designer. Ms. Mayhew started as a jewelry artisan and now teaches second grade, in addition to selling her jewelry at summer flea markets and arts festivals. 
 For the first three years, they did what locals call the ''Vineyard shuffle,'' commuting between affordable winter rentals and whatever summer digs they could arrange -- in their case, tents behind his father's summer house in the town of Chilmark. 
 The couple now live in that summer house, recently insulated on the cheap. Through a program that enables eligible Vineyard couples to buy land, they are in line to acquire an acre of his father's property behind the couple's current house.
 Despite the delicate financial balancing act, they will stay on the Vineyard. ''Every time I am away, I sort of ache,'' Mr. Mayhew said. ''It feels weird when I am completely landlocked.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sheila and Dick Holtzman moved from Arizona to the island of Kauai in Hawaii. ''I've taken an initial hit financially,'' he said, ''and my wife went into sticker shock the first year at the price of milk.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CORY LUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (87%); RESORTS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); MILK (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) HAWAII, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



671 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: Whither the Game? Just Asking

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Questions seeking answers in the coming months and the coming season:
 Will the Twins trade Johan Santana, and if so, to whom?
 Will Commissioner Bud Selig discipline any players named in the Mitchell report, and if so, who?
 Will the commissioner's office and the players union negotiate an acceptance of the recommendations of the Mitchell report?
 Will one or both of the Congressional committees that have scheduled hearings for next month subpoena Roger Clemens to testify under oath?
 If he testifies under oath, will Clemens continue to deny the Mitchell report findings that he used steroids? 
 Will Barry Bonds get a job for next season so that he can add to his record total of 762 home runs?
 Will Bonds go on trial on perjury and obstruction of justice charges? And if he is tried, will he be convicted? And if convicted, will he watch the World Series on a prison television?
 How much of an inroad will Alex Rodriguez (518) make in his attempt to supplant Bonds as the career home run leader?
 Will Goose Gossage be elected to the Hall of Fame next week after falling short a year ago by 21 votes of 545 cast?
 Will the disgraced Mark McGwire improve on the 23.5 percent he received in his first appearance on the Hall of Fame ballot last year?
 Will the steroids zealots, those sanctimonious self-appointed judges of baseball's steroids program, who in some cases have conflicts of interest in their commercial positions, accept baseball's testing and discipline guidelines?
 Will the Mets acquire a front-line starting pitcher, pacifying their critics who don't believe they have enough pitching to win their division?
 Will Pedro Martinez make a solid return to the Mets' rotation and ease the criticism that the Mets don't have enough starting pitching?
 Will the Mets get so desperate for an established starting pitcher that they will trade Jose Reyes?
 Will Reyes make Mets fans forget his collapse in the final month last season?
 Will the Mets make their fans forget their September swoon and re-establish their credibility as contenders?
 Will Joba Chamberlain start the season as a Yankees starter or remain in the bullpen, setting up for Mariano Rivera?
 Will Chamberlain, Phil Hughes and Ian Kennedy be in the Yankees' starting rotation, and will they perform as advertised?
 Will the Yankees trade one or more of those three pitchers for an established starter?
 Will Brian Cashman, the Yankees' general manager, who liberated himself from George Steinbrenner's iron thumb, clash with Hank Steinbrenner, his new boss, over player personnel decisions?
 Will Joe Girardi manage the Yankees to the postseason for the 14th successive season?
 Will Joe Torre, relocated in Los Angeles, continue his string of postseason appearances, or will he revert to the managerial status he held before he became the beneficiary of George Steinbrenner's money?
 Will Lastings Milledge mature and blossom among the cherry blossoms in Washington?
 With Dontrelle Willis and Dan Haren having been traded this off-season, will any other front-line starting pitchers be traded?
 Will Willis's new environment in Detroit inspire him to rebound from the worst season of his five-year career?
 Having added Miguel Cabrera and Edgar Renteria to their lineup and Willis to their pitching rotation, will the Tigers let any other American League team near the World Series?
 Will the Red Sox win their third World Series in five years after having won none in 86 years?
 Will the Marlins and the Rays get new parks, or will Florida continue to be a baseball wasteland?
 Will the National League have its first 20-game winner in three years?
 Will the N.L. win the All-Star Game for the first time in 12 years and gain home-field advantage for the pennant winner for the first time under the six-year-old format that links the game to the World Series?
 Will the newly anointed Tampa Bay Rays, having exorcised the Devil from their name, win more than 70 games for the first time in their 11-year history?
 Will the Baltimore Orioles end their streak of losing seasons at 10, which makes them one of four teams in history to have 10 consecutive losing seasons after a first-place finish?
 Will the Pirates suffer their 16th consecutive losing season and tie the 1933-48 Phillies for the record for incompetence?
 Parlez-Vous Baseball?
 By his own description, Bill Smith was a ''bad backup catcher'' on the Hamilton College baseball team. ''I knew I was in trouble when we had a doubleheader at Union College and it was a cold blustery April day and the other guy caught both games,'' said Smith, the general manager of the Minnesota Twins.
 All right, Smith didn't become a baseball player, but he did become a baseball executive and a unique one at that. He may be the only general manager who majored in French in college.
 ''Hamilton was a great liberal arts school,'' said Smith, class of '80. ''I decided I wanted to learn a language. I also realized the only way I'd succeed at that was to major in it.''
 Smith also wanted to spend a semester abroad, and the language education would help him do that. He spent the spring semester of his junior year in the Loire Valley of France.
 ''It was a great experience,'' he said. ''I was with a great group of people.''
 The next group Smith spent time with worked in baseball.
 ''The winter meetings were in Toronto in 1979, and I took a bus from Clinton, N.Y.,'' he said. ''I spent five days there. It was reading period before final exams, and I tried to explain to my professors that it was job related. They weren't buying it.''
 Honest, Professor, it was job related. The commissioner's office had started an executive development program, hiring two college graduates a year, and Smith received one of the internships in the second year.
 ''I spent a year in the commissioner's office and then moved to the White Sox organization,'' Smith said. That started him on his way to the general manager's job with the Twins. 
 Smith, who said he was a ''big believer'' in a liberal arts education, has only one regret about majoring in French. 
 ''If I had known what I was going to do, I would have taken Spanish,'' he said. ''It would have helped me a great deal more. I've spent the last 12 years going to Latin America quite a bit. But French has helped me learn Spanish.''
 Seeking Common Ground 
 It's an old Jewish joke told by Jews among Jews: Put three Jews on a committee, and they'll have four different opinions.
 That's where baseball in Israel seems to be right now. There's last summer's league, there's a new league that has been announced, there's an independent businessman who isn't thrilled with either one and there's a group of former advisers to the original league who want to resolve the mess and emerge with one strong, viable league.
 The mediators include Dan Kurtzer, a former United States ambassador to Israel and commissioner of the Israel Baseball League; Marvin Goldklang, a limited Yankees partner and owner of several minor league teams; and Andrew Zimbalist, a Smith College economics professor.
 They hope to get everyone together for a meeting in New York next month.
 ''Everybody thought the league was a wonderful concept, but serious divisions developed,'' Goldklang said. ''We have tried to develop an approach under which those who are interested in continuing the league can come together and support a common approach based on a much sounder business plan.''
 The Israel Baseball League is about $1 million in debt. Its founder, Larry Baras, the Boston bagel entrepreneur, isn't likely to be able to operate the league next summer. Jeffrey Rosen, who was Baras's first investor, has announced the creation of the Israel Professional Baseball League.
 That's exactly what the Goldklang group wants to avoid, starting a new league without settling the chaos left by the original. 
 Further muddying matters is the relationship between Rosen and Jeffrey Royer, a Canadian investor in the original league and a general partner of the Arizona Diamondbacks. Royer and Rosen are reluctant to meet for their own reasons.
 Along with the Goldklang group, Buddy Lewis, whose Nokona Athletics Goods contributed the league's equipment last summer, wants to see the problems resolved.
 ''Everybody believes that the notion of baseball in Israel is fantastic and it can be a reality,'' Lewis said. ''It only means everybody pulling on one rope.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); STEROIDS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); BASEBALL (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (77%); TESTIMONY (76%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); JUDGES (71%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



672 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1852 words

HEADLINE: Amnesty Plan for Relics of the Raj

BYLINE: By JEREMY KAHN

DATELINE: New Delhi 

 BODY:
 EDWIN LUTYENS, the Edwardian architect who planned New Delhi nearly a century ago, intended it to serve as a grand imperial capital capable of holding its own against Washington or Paris. 
 Sixty years after the end of the Raj, India's influence has begun to equal his vision for its capital. Yet Lutyens's cityscape is in danger of being obliterated by commercial development and the pressures of accommodating a population that has swelled to well over 13 million from fewer than 900,000 in his time. 
 Now, a group of prominent Indian architects has advanced a plan to save Lutyens's New Delhi. The proposal has cheered some Lutyens enthusiasts, but it is already drawing fire. Some question whether it does enough to protect this master planner's legacy; others deride his urban plan and his architecture as an outmoded colonial straitjacket at odds with a thriving and chaotic modern democracy.
 Working from 1912 to 1931 Lutyens forged a new style of architecture for the city, combining the neo-Classical with accents borrowed from India's Mughal and Buddhist past. 
 Along the city's axis he set out a vast rectangular mall surrounded by government offices and crowned at its far end by an imposing palace for the viceroy. Tree-lined streets radiated from this central vista and converged in hexagonal nodes. Dotting the boulevards were white bungalows, with colonnaded verandas and spacious gardens, for colonial administrators. 
 Those white bungalows, now owned mostly by the government and used to house senior officials, have been threatened for decades. Successive Indian administrations viewed them as an unwelcome reminder of the yoke of imperialism and an anti-egalitarian embarrassment in a country mindful of the yawning gap between the rich and poor. 
 The bungalows were also too expensive to maintain, they argued, and an indefensible use of land in a city where millions are crammed into claustrophobic housing colonies or slums. In 2004 the Central Public Works Department talked openly of tearing them all down. Meanwhile the World Monuments Fund in New York has named central New Delhi, with its imperial buildings and bungalows, one of the planet's 100 most endangered heritage sites. 
 The new plan, drafted by the Delhi Urban Art Commission in consultation with the Indian government, sets aside a 14-square-mile area in the center of the city as a conservation zone. Construction would be severely limited just south of city's central mall, the Rajpath, where the largest number of Lutyens's bungalows remain; bungalow facades along 17 major roads running through this area would be preserved and in some cases restored to their original designs. The low red-brick boundary walls and white gates that once surrounded each bungalow, replaced in many cases by high fencing and even guard towers, would have to be reinstated. 
 Preservation groups, which have long pushed for such measures, would normally have applauded. But the plan also suggests a way in which several small, contemporary bungalows could be squeezed onto some of the sprawling Lutyens-era plots. And elsewhere, particularly north of the Rajpath, the architects have called for bungalows to be torn down for multistory apartment blocks and office buildings. 
 Some preservationists argue that, rather than conserving Lutyens's cityscape, the plan will pave the way for radical changes. And they accuse the art commission of favoring the interests of real estate developers and big businesses. 
 ''They have considered the development potential of this area and prioritized that over the heritage qualities,'' said A. G. Krishna Menon, who heads the Delhi chapter of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage.
 Charles Correa, the Mumbai architect who serves as chairman the Delhi Urban Art Commission, denied that it had sold out to commercial interests. He said the commission wanted to impose order on the haphazard development that has already unfolded north of the Rajpath. 
 That goal is consistent with Lutyens's idea of a planned city, he said. ''You have to have some sense of cohesion to urban form,'' Mr. Correa said. ''Too much of what we have built in India today looks like the bottom of the sea. It is just everything plunked down wherever it fell.''
 Still, his presence at the helm of the art commission has raised eyebrows among some Lutyens admirers. Mr. Correa previously designed two modern high-rises near Connaught Place, the imperial-era shopping circle, that critics say mar Lutyens's vision and represent the sort of development they would like to stop. 
 ''We are very wary of the Delhi Urban Art Commission because its chairman is Charles Correa,'' said Margaret Richardson, a member of the Lutyens Trust, an organization in Britain dedicated to educating the public about his work and helping to maintain his buildings. 
 Lutyens's New Delhi has been controversial almost from its inception. In 1912 the British decided to move their Indian capital from Calcutta to Delhi, where they thought it would be easier to oversee the country and which was closer to Simla, the Himalayan hill station to which the colonial administration decamped each summer. Lutyens, who had won acclaim designing stately country houses in England, was selected to lay out the new city.
 Upon arriving he also assigned himself the task of designing Delhi's most important new structures, including the viceroy's residence (which today is the Rashtrapati Bhavan, home of India's president). Lutyens disliked Indian architecture, but at the insistence of the British viceroy, Lord Charles Hardinge, he incorporated native elements into his blueprints for the viceroy's residence: chattris (pavilions), stone lattice screens, carved images of elephants and the colossal Buddhist dome. He also invented his own ''Delhi Order'' of neo-Classical columns that fuse Greek and Indian elements.
 This hybrid style was echoed by other architects working under Lutyens. The master planner, however, considered designing villas for colonial officers beneath his abilities. Only a handful of the white houses that today are known as Lutyens bungalows and give central New Delhi much of its character were actually built by him. Most are the work of lesser-known British and Indian architects.
 Today many of the bungalows have been so extensively modified or are in such disrepair that it is hard to get a sense of their previous grandeur. One Lutyens-era home that has been preserved in close to its original state is 10 Aurangzeb Road, the current residence of the Dutch ambassador, and once the home of Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan. 
 Its cornerstone was laid by Lutyens in 1920, but much of the design was done by F. B. Blomfield, the colonial architect who also designed the Imperial Hotel in New Delhi. The house is situated in the center of a massive garden. Its curving white exterior includes Classical columns, arches and cornices as well as flamelike finials and a high dome that are Oriental in inspiration. Inside, the two-story home is arranged around a circular hall set beneath the soaring dome. Off this central hall is a richly paneled library, a formal dining room and one of the house's three bedrooms.
 Lutyens's plan and style attract passionate enthusiasts. ''The British arrived in a country full of beautiful architecture and left all kinds of horrors,'' said William Dalrymple, a historian and writer who splits his time between London and New Delhi. ''The one thing we can be proud of is Lutyens's Delhi -- the buildings, the trees, the streets. It is the best thing the British ever did in colonial architecture.''
 Nalini Thakur, an Indian preservation architect, praised Lutyens's Delhi as ''a very rare early-20th-century capital.'' She noted that while the city is clothed in neo-Classical garb, it was actually built with the latest technology of the day in mind, with roads designed specifically for cars and an airport incorporated into the plan. 
 By the 1930s, when Luytens's Delhi was completed, the sun was setting on the British Empire. Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister of an independent India, was no fan of the capital he inherited in 1947, calling it a ''symbol of British power, with all its ostentation and wastefulness.'' 
 Later more than 20 bungalows were demolished to make way for government areas, new hotels and office blocks. Ministers and other officials who were allotted bungalows also made extensive changes, including large additions and the construction of separate staff quarters on the plots. In 1988 Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, under pressure from conservationists, froze development in about 10 square miles of the city, which was declared the ''Lutyens Bungalow Zone.'' But the freeze has been poorly enforced. One minister made headlines in 2004 for installing white marble bas-reliefs of prancing cherubs and angels along his bungalow's garden walls and erecting a glass pyramid, modeled on I. M. Pei's addition to the Louvre, on its roof.
 The government continues to talk of tearing down the bungalows because they are expensive and hard to maintain. And the prime minister's office is reported to have approved 16 new government houses on 70 acres of land just south of the Rajpath that are occupied by 19 Lutyens bungalows. Three historic bungalows would be demolished in the process.
 Jasbir Sawhney, an architect on the commission, said that the plan should recognize the function the bungalows serve. ''Worldwide, buildings for centuries have been added onto,'' he said. ''But it should be possible to retain the character of both the bungalow and the area.''
 To that end the plan includes concept sketches by Mr. Sawhney for how additional staff quarters and office areas could be constructed on the rear of a large bungalow plot without altering its appearance from the street. He also developed a prototype contemporary bungalow, two or three of which could be built on a plot now occupied by a single Lutyens-era house. 
 Gautam Bhatia, a Delhi architect and critic, said the very idea of restoring the bungalows to their original state was ''farcical.'' ''No one sits out for tea on the veranda, and there are no big patches of chrysanthemums that are tended daily,'' he said. ''The priority now is accommodating the 10 machine gun guards who are protecting you, and making sure the air-conditioning works.''
 The art commission's plan has been submitted to the New Delhi Municipal Council. It must also be approved by agencies of the central government before taking effect. But since the commission consulted closely with the prime minister's office in developing its proposal, Mr. Correa said he was hopeful it would go through.
 Mr. Correa credited the prime minister's office with trying to stop the destruction of Lutyens's Delhi through the hundreds of modifications. ''Before, no one had the guts to touch it in any way and because no one touches it, everyone tinkers with it in their own way,'' Mr. Correa said. ''We just want to stop and correct all the illegal things that were put in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, four of the bungalows. Most are owned by the government and house senior officials. They were initially built for colonial administrators
 Above, a white bungalow in New Delhi designed by Edwin Lutyens. He is often given credit for all such houses along the city's boulevards, although he designed only a few. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL WAITE/LUTYENS TRUST PHOTOGRAPHIC ARCHIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); AMNESTY (74%); SLUM DWELLINGS (73%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); RELIGION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%); DELHI, INDIA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



673 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Forgotten Step Toward Freedom

BYLINE: By ERIC FONER. 
Eric Foner is a professor of history at Columbia University.

 BODY:
WE Americans live in a society awash in historical celebrations. The last few years have witnessed commemorations of the bicentennial of the Louisiana Purchase (2003) and the 50th anniversary of the end of World War II (2005). Looming on the horizon are the bicentennial of Abraham Lincoln's birth (2009) and the sesquicentennial of the outbreak of the Civil War (2011). But one significant milestone has gone strangely unnoticed: the 200th anniversary of Jan. 1, 1808, when the importation of slaves into the United States was prohibited.
 This neglect stands in striking contrast to the many scholarly and public events in Britain that marked the 2007 bicentennial of that country's banning of the slave trade. There were historical conferences, museum exhibits, even a high-budget film, ''Amazing Grace,'' about William Wilberforce, the leader of the parliamentary crusade that resulted in abolition. 
 What explains this divergence? Throughout the 1780s, the horrors of the Middle Passage were widely publicized on both sides of the Atlantic and by 1792 the British Parliament stood on the verge of banning the trade. But when war broke out with revolutionary France, the idea was shelved. Final prohibition came in 1807 and it proved a major step toward the abolition of slavery in the empire. 
 The British campaign against the African slave trade not only launched the modern concern for human rights as an international principle, but today offers a usable past for a society increasingly aware of its multiracial character. It remains a historic chapter of which Britons of all origins can be proud. 
 In the United States, however, slavery not only survived the end of the African trade but embarked on an era of unprecedented expansion. Americans have had to look elsewhere for memories that ameliorate our racial discontents, which helps explain our recent focus on the 19th-century Underground Railroad as an example (widely commemorated and often exaggerated) of blacks and whites working together in a common cause.
 Nonetheless, the abolition of the slave trade to the United States is well worth remembering. Only a small fraction (perhaps 5 percent) of the estimated 11 million Africans brought to the New World in the four centuries of the slave trade were destined for the area that became the United States. But in the Colonial era, Southern planters regularly purchased imported slaves, and merchants in New York and New England profited handsomely from the trade. 
 The American Revolution threw the slave trade and slavery itself into crisis. In the run-up to war, Congress banned the importation of slaves as part of a broader nonimportation policy. During the War of Independence, tens of thousands of slaves escaped to British lines. Many accompanied the British out of the country when peace arrived. 
 Inspired by the ideals of the Revolution, most of the newly independent American states banned the slave trade. But importation resumed to South Carolina and Georgia, which had been occupied by the British during the war and lost the largest number of slaves. 
 The slave trade was a major source of disagreement at the Constitutional Convention of 1787. South Carolina's delegates were determined to protect slavery, and they had a powerful impact on the final document. They originated the three-fifths clause (giving the South extra representation in Congress by counting part of its slave population) and threatened disunion if the slave trade were banned, as other states demanded. 
 The result was a compromise barring Congress from prohibiting the importation of slaves until 1808. Some Anti-Federalists, as opponents of ratification were called, cited the slave trade clause as a reason why the Constitution should be rejected, claiming it brought shame upon the new nation.
 The outbreak of the slave revolution in Haiti in the early 1790s sent shock waves of fear throughout the American South and led to new state laws barring the importation of slaves. But in 1803, as cotton cultivation spread, South Carolina reopened the trade. The Legislature of the newly acquired Louisiana Territory also allowed the importation of slaves. From 1803 to 1808, between 75,000 and 100,000 Africans entered the United States. 
 By this time, the international slave trade was widely recognized as a crime against humanity. In 1807, Congress prohibited the importation of slaves from abroad, to take effect the next New Year's Day, the first date allowed by the Constitution. 
 For years thereafter, free African-Americans celebrated Jan. 1 as an alternative to July 4, when, in their view, patriotic orators hypocritically proclaimed the slave-owning United States a land of liberty. 
 It is easy to understand, however, why the trade's abolition appears so anticlimactic. Banning American participation in the slave trade did not end the shipment of Africans to the Western Hemisphere. Some three million more slaves were brought to Brazil and Spanish America before the trade finally ended. With Southerners dominating the federal government for most of the period before the Civil War, enforcement was lax and the smuggling of slaves into the United States continued. 
 Those who hoped that ending American participation in the slave trade would weaken or destroy slavery were acutely disappointed. In the United States, unlike the West Indies, the slave population grew by natural increase. This was not because American owners were especially humane, but because most of the South lies outside the tropical environment where diseases like yellow fever and malaria exacted a huge toll on whites and blacks alike. 
 As slavery expanded into the Deep South, a flourishing internal slave trade replaced importation from Africa. Between 1808 and 1860, the economies of older states like Virginia came increasingly to rely on the sale of slaves to the cotton fields of Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana. But demand far outstripped supply, and the price of slaves rose inexorably, placing ownership outside the reach of poorer Southerners.
 Let us imagine that the African slave trade had continued in a legal and open manner well into the 19th century. It is plausible to assume that hundreds of thousands if not millions of Africans would have been brought into the country. 
 This most likely would have resulted in the ''democratization'' of slavery as prices fell and more and more whites could afford to purchase slaves, along with a further increase in Southern political power thanks to the Constitution's three-fifths clause. These were the very reasons advanced by South Carolina's political leaders when they tried, unsuccessfully, to reopen the African slave trade in the 1850s. 
 More slaves would also have meant heightened fear of revolt and ever more stringent controls on the slave population. It would have reinforced Southerners' demands to annex to the United States areas suitable for plantation slavery in the Caribbean and Central America. Had the importation of slaves continued unchecked, the United States could well have become the hemispheric slave-based empire of which many Southerners dreamed. 
 Jan. 1, 1808, is worth commemorating not only for what it directly accomplished, but for helping to save the United States from a history even more terrible than the Civil War that eventually rid our country of slavery.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EMILIANO PONZI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (91%); SLAVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



674 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: Memories of a Venerable Showcase

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA LA ROCCO

 BODY:
FROM dance enclaves in the Bronx to roving, artist-run collectives, showcases for ''emerging choreographers'' -- that fuzzy, mutable category -- are a dime a dozen these days. But this week one of the pioneers, the Fresh Tracks series at Dance Theater Workshop in Chelsea, reaches an important milestone: 500 artists presented, counting a few double appearances. 
 Fresh Tracks, which will present work by seven choreographers on Friday and next Saturday, has run, in one guise or another, since Dance Theater Workshop was founded as an artists' collective by Jeff Duncan, Art Bauman and Jack Moore in 1965. The list of participants, chosen through open auditions, is a Who's Who of contemporary dance, including Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker, Wendy Perron, Doug Elkins, Reggie Wilson, David Parsons, Meredith Monk, Bebe Miller, Tere O'Connor and Maria Hassabi. Deborah Jowitt, the dance historian, teacher and longtime Village Voice critic who has reviewed so many Fresh Tracks evenings, performed in the very first program. 
 As usual with such long-running, grass-roots (at least at first) efforts, there are conflicting versions of history. Ms. Jowitt, for one dismisses the idea that the showcase, then called the Studio Series, had anything to do with Fresh Tracks. No matter; she is claimed by others. ''Hogwash or not, I just love that history,'' said David Dorfman, the choreographer and Connecticut College professor, describing a placard in the old theater's lobby listing Fresh Tracks artists. ''This is our history. It's our little internal history. It's important.''
 This week Mr. Dorfman will be cheering on two former students, Maggie Bennett and Rebecca Serrell. ''I was as excited for them as I was when I got it'' in 1985, he said. 
 Their excitement brought back memories of his own performance. ''Nervousness and utter enjoyment is what I remember feeling,'' he said, ''and still feel thinking about it.''
 Here are a few of the Fresh Tracks alumni, and their memories. 
 Bill T. Jones
 Of all the participants, Bill T. Jones has probably had the most storied career, including this year's Tony Award for best choreography, for ''Spring Awakening''; a role in the culture wars of the 1990s, when the former New Yorker critic Arlene Croce condemned his landmark 1994 meditation on illness, ''Still/Here''; and an electrifying interracial partnership with Arnie Zane, who died of AIDS in 1988. 
 Ms. Jowitt and others mentioned Mr. Jones's 1977 solo (in what was then called the Choreographers Showcase, becoming Fresh Tracks in 1984) as one of those charged moments when you realize you're seeing something important. Mr. Jones's feelings are more complicated.
 ''I believe everyone was white on the panel,'' he said of his audition. ''It was cool central, and you knew it.'' At the time Mr. Jones was living in Binghamton, N.Y., with the American Dance Asylum, a collective of ''hippie types and general malcontents'' who ''turned up our noses at Manhattan,'' he said. ''We thought of it as a Babylon: true art couldn't happen in a commercial environment. Can you believe it? Of course all these highfalutin ideas collapsed as soon as I was offered something.''
 Mr. Jones was the first of the collective to break into ''the grand ivory tower of the avant-garde in Lower Manhattan,'' he continued. ''Our idols were the people in Grand Union, Judson Church, people who were certainly not on the cover of Dance Magazine. To make it meant to sell out. So it was a confusing time.''
 David R. White
 ''Going back to the original Studio Series, it was always a question of 'Open the door, see what's out there,''' said David R. White, Dance Theater Workshop's executive director from 1975 to 2003. ''Some years it felt like everyone was economically bereft, and the only thing we were seeing was solos, and then another year everybody seemed to be working with 14 people. This was completely random, but it gave you a sense of the zeitgeist.''
 Mr. White remembered heated discussions and agonizingly deadlocked panels. Other choices were easier. ''There were always one or two -- certainly the De Keersmaeker falls into that, and also the first angry silent solo by Donald Byrd -- where everyone knows that something important is happening here. I made it clear that we're not looking for masterpieces. You could find some, like the De Keersmaeker, which was as perfect you're going to get in a short-story format. But the job is to look for the pieces where the strengths are shouldering the weaknesses out of the way.''
 Having sat through an estimated 2,700 showcase auditions during his tenure, Mr. White added by e-mail that no single performance was make or break. ''But every decision by every panel (panels themselves ever changing, never the same) are like glass-bottom boats in clear water,'' he wrote, ''slipping over the random flux of who makes dance and why, and, at its best, carrying along the visceral reactions of those lucky enough to observe it.''
 Cyndi Lee
 When Cyndi Lee was selected in 1982, ''it was a really big deal,'' she said. Galvanized by her performance (which she remembers mostly for its costumes of short jumpsuits and running shoes, as well as some rhythmic, gestural movement) and the opportunities that followed, Ms. Lee said it ''gave us all a new idea that maybe we really could have a livelihood'' as dancers. But 14 years later she quit, worn down by the politics and hardships. 
 ''I did this concert, and the director of the theater never even came to see it,'' she recalled. ''I hired a P.R. company, and the P.R. person came on the last night and said to me: 'Oh my gosh, that's the best concert I've seen all year. If I'd known it was going to be that good, I would have worked harder for you.' And I said, 'That's it, I'm done.' ''
 Ms. Lee turned to yoga, founding Om Yoga, which celebrates its 10th anniversary next month. She credits choreography with her creative style of teaching. And, yes, she said, she employs ''many, many, many dancers, or ex-dancers, or ex-choreographers, and I go to see them dance.''
 Deborah Jowitt
 With Dance Theater Workshop itself still an emerging enterprise, the Studio Series in which Ms. Jowitt participated bears more resemblance to current artist-run series like the peripatetic Catch and Chez Bushwick in Brooklyn than to the Fresh Tracks of today. 
 ''You couldn't flush the toilet during performances,'' she said, describing Jeff Duncan's loft on 20th Street, where the shows took place on Mondays and Saturdays. ''It definitely had an identity that was more like that of a cooperative.''
 ''I also remember, very vividly, this program in which I performed with Meredith Monk,'' she continued. ''It was as if we came from different countries. I had come from very traditional modern dance, and I remember her saying to me, 'Did it take you a very long time to choreograph that solo?' And I never knew if she meant it looked difficult, and that was a good thing, or if I had just cooked it up.''
 By the early 1970s that cooperative feel was fading, and Ms. Jowitt had already been writing for The Voice for several years. She recalled being able to see certain trends over the years and the excitement of looking in on the new. But when asked about individual performances, only one is seared into her memory: Bill T. Jones's in 1977.
 ''It was so full of controlled rage, and he was so beautiful,'' she said. ''It was politically explosive, and he was a charismatic performer of the sort that was unusual.'' Laurie Uprichard
 In June, Laurie Uprichard left her 15-year tenure as executive director of Danspace Project at St. Mark's Church to direct the International Dance Festival Ireland in Dublin. Before Danspace she worked at Dance Theater Workshop (where she served on many Fresh Tracks panels). But she was in the showcase herself, in 1973, just 18 months after moving to New York.
 ''There's a Voice review that I have in my drawer in N.Y.C. and I remember some sentence about an 'existential dirge ... ,''' she wrote in e-mail. ''Deborah Jowitt wrote the review, I'm pretty sure, of that edition of the Choreographers Showcase. The piece started with me on a ladder in the dressing room -- the wall of which stopped a couple of feet from the ceiling so my torso was visible. I recited the short Beckett bit from there, mumbled it really, then came careening out of the dressing room running full tilt through the space to the other end. After that, I did a lot of rolling on the floor as fast as possible and ended up on my back with my legs against the upstage wall doing something that I can't remember as the lights faded.''
 Ms. Uprichard added that ''the experience of being treated as a serious young choreographer was very important'' and something she took with her as a presenter. 
 How long did she pursue a career as a choreographer after the showcase? ''Not a minute longer.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cyndi Lee, top, next to shadows, as she performed with Mary Ellen Strom at Dance Theater Workshop in the 1980s, and, above in the striped shirt, teaching yoga classes today. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AGATHA WASILEWSKA) (pg. AR33)
Bill T. Jones, who has provided strong memories for those who saw him performing in Fast Tracks, in 1985, left, and, right, in a recent performance as he has continued to choreograph and dance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAULA COURT
 MATTHEW WAKEM) (pg. AR32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); DANCE (90%); THEATER (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); HISTORY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); AIDS & HIV (63%)

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



675 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; CITY LORE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: When An Auld Acquaintance Was Brand-New

BYLINE: By JIM RASENBERGER

 BODY:
IF we could ride a great glimmering ball back to Times Square a century ago, we might see ourselves in the men and women who gathered there on New Year's Eve of 1907. 
 Notwithstanding how they dressed or wore their hair, their lives were superficially similar to ours. They took the subway to work and lived in homes lighted by electricity. They talked on telephones, went to the movies and listened to music on their new Victrolas. They worried about their weight and wondered whether Christmas was becoming commercialized.
 And on Dec. 31, 1907, for the first time, they did something that hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers will do on Monday night: They celebrated the passing of '07 into '08 by watching an illuminated sphere falling from the sky. 
 Of course, not everything is quite the same. The ball that will descend in Times Square in the final seconds of 2007 is a far more sophisticated vessel than the one that made its debut at the end of 1907. This year's incarnation, which is brand-new, will weigh 1,200 pounds and sparkle with 9,576 light-emitting diodes gleaming through Waterford crystal; a hundred years ago, the ball weighed 700 pounds and was illuminated by 216 incandescent bulbs. 
 But that first ''electric ball,'' as The New York Times referred to it, was dazzlingenough to the people who poured into Times Square to see it. After 10 p.m., when the theaters let out, men in silk hats and women in furs swelled the crowd further. ''An acrobat could hardly have managed to fall down for a wager, so tightly did the people hold each other up,'' The New York Evening Sun reported the next day. 
 Not so many years earlier, New Yorkers had celebrated the new year by visiting friends' homes or gathering around Trinity Church in Lower Manhattan to hear the chimes ring harmoniously at midnight. All that changed with the new century. The chimes still rang at the old church downtown, but the action now was uptown, at the distinctly nonsectarian intersection of Broadway and 42nd Street. 
 And nothing about it was harmonious. A correspondent for The Chicago Daily Tribune judged the noise in Times Square that night to be more varied than in previous years, including ''trombones that yowled like a cat in torture, a combination of cowbells and streetcar gongs, tin horns with a double register.'' The New York Tribune described the full effect as a ''terrifying reverberation.'' 
 If New York seemed especially raucous that New Year's Eve, it was no wonder. The country had just survived a blistering economic meltdown in October -- ''the flurry,'' the papers called it -- even as it absorbed one of its largest waves of immigrants. Many of the nearly 1.3 million people who arrived in America in 1907 had sluiced through Ellis Island, adding to the ranks and turmoil of the city. 
 The playwright Israel Zangwill would use the term ''melting pot'' in 1908 to describe America as a place ''roaring'' and ''bubbling'' with the uneasy but exhilarating chemistry of assimilation. 
 Times Square on New Year's Eve was the melting pot in action. People of all classes and backgrounds rubbed elbows. Men and women pressed against one another with unusual familiarity. Along with blowing horns in one another's ears and tossing confetti into one another's eyes, boys and young men dashed through the crowd with ticklers, small feather dusters they used to brush women's faces. 
 Police Commissioner Theodore Bingham had banned ticklers that New Year's Eve, but they were widely deployed anyway. Some women came prepared, wearing heavy veils to protect themselves.
 At 42nd Street, a group of young men, noting that 1908 was going to be a leap year, pulled a clothesline across the sidewalk. When young women approached, the young men raised the line a foot or two off the pavement. ''Leap year, ladies!'' they called. ''Take the jump. Show what you can do for leap year!'' Some women stepped demurely down onto the street to walk around. Others lifted their skirts to daring heights and jumped. 
 Females made plenty of their own mischief that night. Chains of young women linked arms and whipped through Times Square. At 46th Street and Broadway, a dozen young women encircled a well-dressed young man and refused to let him escape. He was finally rescued by a police officer, but not before the women kicked his silk hat down Broadway.
 Even more shocking female behavior was exhibited in the restaurants on the Great White Way. ''There were perhaps a dozen women smoking in the cafe at one time, a little before 12 o'clock,'' The Times wrote of female patrons at Martin's, one of Broadway's swankier establishments. ''They did it modestly for the most part, and it was very evident that many were beginners.''
 So remarkable was the news of women lighting up that it was recorded in papers around the country and led to a short-lived New York law banning women from smoking in public. 
 Back outside on this evening, as midnight approached, the whistles of the ships on the rivers began to screech, and people along Broadway pushed into the crowd that already packed Times Square. ''Tens of thousands stood watching the electric ball,'' reported The Times. ''And then -- it fell.'' 
 WHY this simple falling ball should have gone on to become the essential symbol of New Year's Eve is a mystery. But with that first descent a hundred years ago, one of the most enduring rites of American life was launched, one that would be repeated every year since 1907, except for a few years during the blackouts of World War II. The ball grew bigger and brighter, and these days it begins to fall at 11:59 rather than at midnight, as it did in 1907. But for all the changes, the feeling among those watching remains pretty much the same. 
 ''The great shout that went up drowned out the whistles for a minute,'' The Times of a century ago reported. ''The vocal power of the welcome rose above even the horns and the cowbells and the rattles. Above all else came the wild human hullabaloo of noise out of which could be dimly formed the words: 'Hurrah for 1908.''' 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the first ball dropped in Times Square on New Year's Eve, in 1907, referred incompletely to the origins of the tradition. It was begun by Adolph S. Ochs, the publisher of The New York Times, as part of an annual promotional celebration outside the Times Building, which had been the newspaper's home for three years. The first ball was dropped from a structure atop the building.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE NIGHT OF THE CONFETTI: New Yorkers welcomed 1908 with a circus near Wall Street, top right, partying on Broadway, right, and raucous dinners at local restaurants, above, where, to the horror of many, women smoked. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM HARPWEEK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); CHRISTMAS (72%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (71%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (52%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



676 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: On Kauai, Preserving a Rural Heritage

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA C. McGUIRE

 BODY:
THE Hawaiian island of Kauai, known as the Garden Island, was once covered in sugar cane plantations. Now houses, condominiums and hotels line the coasts and cover the hillsides. 
 But a new development called Kealanani hopes to preserve Kauai's farming heritage. Andy Friend and Paul Kyno, the developers of the 2,000-acre property that was once used for plantations, will sell land for both houses and working farms. 
 Inspiration for the project, Mr. Friend said, came in part from his experience of working on his grandparents' dairy farm in Missouri as a child, and farming raspberries and grains in Montana in the 1990s. ''From Seattle to Miami, farmland is being lost,'' he said. In 2004, he began making plans to develop this agriculturally zoned land by dividing it into small farms.
 Lot prices -- ranging from $500,000 to $3 million -- are determined by whether they have ocean views, their farming potential and their proximity to the development's 12-mile network of hiking trails. So a seven-acre parcel without ocean views could go for $500,000, whereas a three-acre lot on a bluff, with a wide view of the ocean and access to the hiking trail, could go for as much as $1.5 million. 
 In contrast, a 56-acre lot with prime agricultural land carries a much lower per-acre price tag, costing only $2.2 million. The developers hope the larger, lower-priced lots will attract professional farming operations.
 Buyers will be required to build houses that use pier-and-beam foundations, which don't affect the natural terrain as much as concrete-slab foundations, according to Mr. Kyno, a partner in the development and the property's real estate agent at Sleeping Giant Sotheby's International Realty.
 Homeowners can lease their land to another farming outfit, raise livestock themselves or grow the crops of their choice. Mr. Friend and Mr. Kyno say they expect residents will grow a variety of tropical fruits and other cash crops.
 Buyers are already flocking to the development, even in Hawaii's lagging real estate market. Final approval from the county's planning department came in September, when 47 lots of an eventual 190 went on the market; now 15 are under contract. 
 Valerie Van Balen, 30, is one of the first buyers. She was drawn by the property's situation above Kealia Beach, a popular strand on the northeast side of the island where Ms. Van Balen likes to surf. 
 She also wanted to buy a home with a farm to contribute to Kauai's local food supply. Ms. Van Balen, the owner of Majestic Gems, a fine jewelry store on Kauai, plans to work on the farm. ''I want to grow tropical flowers and fruit,'' she said. ''Mangoes and avocados -- all the good stuff.'' She also plans to grow cacao, which is used to make chocolate.
 Ms. Van Balen will pay $425,000 for her five-acre parcel, taking advantage of a 10 percent discount for buyers who will close before infrastructure is in place. Though she knows she will farm, she has not determined what type of house she will build. 
 In August, Kate and Dean Silliman decided to buy a lot at Kealanani, hoping to build a bigger home than the 1,500-square-foot house they now occupy in the nearby town of Kapaa. Having a farm appealed to them as they enjoy spending time outside with their two young sons. The couple went into contract on a $500,000 six-acre lot in the Kealanani development in September.
 It's not just the prospect of agrarian living that appeals to buyers. Kanuikapono, a charter school based in Anahola, a town 3.5 miles away, may lease an old plantation building on the development. Mr. Kyno said the school was hoping the site at Kealanani would allow it to expand, perhaps adding a high school curriculum. ''Who wouldn't want their kids to walk to school?'' Ms. Silliman said. 
 The developers will also build 100 units of affordable housing. Based on guidelines developed by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, a family of four with $60,000 in annual household income would be eligible, according to Mr. Kyno.
 This hybrid development of luxury homes on working farms is in part a result of Hawaii's long and bitter history of residential development on agricultural land. 
 Owners of agricultural land sometimes plant a few coconut palms, or graze a horse in the backyard, but ignore the laws that require them to ''derive income primarily from agricultural activities on the property,'' said Ian K. Costa, the director of planning for the County of Kauai. 
 Mr. Costa said that plantation owners on Kauai began selling off large tracts of agricultural land in the late 1980s. These parcels covered ''essentially half the island,'' Mr. Costa said. Because of the sales, ''80 percent of the agricultural land is owned primarily by nonfarmers.'' 
 Mr. Friend believes that most residential developments on agricultural land have not gone far enough to preserve the lands for agricultural uses. Developers ''create what locally they call gentlemen's estates,'' he added, ''where there's large landscaped acreage but no agricultural activity.'' 
 Before a home can be built at Kealanani, however, buyers will have to have an agricultural plan approved by a committee made up of community members and agricultural advocates. And the home they build must ''complement the agriculture,'' Mr. Friend said. If buyers fail to carry out their agricultural plan, the development's homeowners' association can put a lien on the property, Mr. Kyno said. This stipulation is a part of the contract that buyers sign when they buy property at Kealanani. 
 Still, agriculture advocates question whether buyers will be able to derive a significant income from their small farms. ''If you preserve and protect agricultural land but farmers cannot be economically viable on the land, then it's defeating the purpose,'' said Andrew Hashimoto, the dean of the College of Tropical Agriculture and Human Resources at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. 
 Mr. Friend, though, sees farming more as a lifestyle than an occupation. ''It's not a golf-course kind of property,'' he said of Kealanani. ''It's rural. There could be livestock. There will be tractors and field equipment.'' 
 So far, the developers of Kealanani have satisfied government regulators, and local residents who don't want to see the island's valuable land used for more luxury condos. 
 Ms. Silliman said she couldn't wait to move her family to Kealanani and start growing things. ''I'm excited to get my hands dirty,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PLANTED IN PARADISE: Clockwise from top left: Workers tend to green tea crops at Kealanani, a development on Kauai, Hawaii. Kate and Dean Silliman bought six acres
 Valerie Van Balen will grow cacao. The developers are Paul Kyno, left, and Andy Friend. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RONEN ZILBERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); SUGAR FARMING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (78%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); DAIRY FARMING (72%); HIKING (72%); JEWELRY STORES (69%); COUNTIES (61%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (60%); FINE JEWELRY (60%); APPROVALS (50%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (98%); MISSOURI, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



677 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: First Night in Flux

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

 BODY:
REPORTS of the death of First Night have been greatly exaggerated. 
 That is the view, in any case, at the headquarters of First Night International in Johnson City, in western New York, a 32-year-old membership organization for communities that put on First Night programs.
 Ever since 2000, according to Dave Sullivan, the organization's executive director, some observers have proclaimed that First Night ''is a dying model.'' 
 ''It's just not true,'' Mr. Sullivan said. 
 What is true about First Night -- a nonprofit arts-themed, alcohol-free and family-friendly New Year's Eve party held across the country and as far abroad as Auckland, New Zealand -- is that it's constantly in flux. New cities are signing on in the middle of the country and stalwarts in the Northeast are thriving as smaller celebrations try to find their footing. 
 This year, 13 cities and towns throughout the New York metropolitan region will hold First Nights, down from about 30 in New Jersey, Connecticut, Westchester and Long Island in 1999. 
 Nationally, 109 First Nights will be held Dec. 31, down from 176 in 2000. Mr. Sullivan said Sept. 11 was partly to blame for the drop-off locally. ''Think about the economic climate then -- so many communities were affected, and all nonprofits felt the pinch,'' he said. Organizers of First Night programs rely heavily on local sponsorship from a variety of sources.
 Interest in First Night intensified before the millennium and ebbed afterward, Mr. Sullivan said. 
 Organizers of the holdout celebrations and a few startups in the region tend to share the belief that their communities are cultural hotbeds, and that people from elsewhere will turn out to watch what amounts to a nightlong talent marathon.
 ''The first thing that got us into First Night is there's a lot of things happening in New Rochelle,'' said Jeffrey E. Krause, executive director of the New Rochelle Y.M.C.A., which runs the city's event, now in its second year. ''And we have so much artistic talent here.'' 
 Among the 36 artists scheduled to perform this year are the New Rochelle Opera and Toru Dodo, a Japanese jazz pianist, as well as the usual complement of jugglers, clowns and other street performers. As with all First Nights, there is a multicultural dimension to the entertainment.
 First Night attendees buy a button ($8 in New Rochelle) that allows access to most performances. Mr. Krause said he was expecting about 2,000 people this year, up from 1,500 last year. 
 In Connecticut, First Night Weston/Westport has been attracting a crowd of 5,000 fairly consistently for 14 years, according to its executive director, Rozanne Gates. Among the 42 acts that will perform this year at 14 sites within a roughly three-block radius of downtown Westport are the News in Revue, a news-spoofing comedy troupe, and the Japanese drummer Taiko Masala. Buttons are $15. 
 First Night Morris County, a New Jersey event that regularly draws more than 10,000 people, according to its chairwoman, Debbie Williams, has been running for 16 years. The 300 artists scheduled to perform around the Morristown Green this year include the tween sensations Girl Authority, soloists from the New Jersey Tap Dance Ensemble and a husband-and-wife Russian folk duo. Buttons are $15.
 Another traditionally well-attended New Jersey celebration, First Night Montclair, is celebrating its 20th anniversary. 
 The event ''points to Montclair as an arts and a food destination,'' said the organizer, Eileen Sheehan, who said the crowd is usually 6,000 to 7,000.
 Montclair's entertainment policy is different from that of many First Nights, Ms. Sheehan said. ''Five years ago we were at an all-time low. We got less than 1,000 people,'' she said. ''So we wanted to jump-start things, and now we bring in name acts.'' Those have included the Big Apple Circus and Richie Havens. This year, for an additional $10 plus the $15 button fee, attendees can see a show by the Beatles tribute act the Fab Faux.
 While larger, longer-running events seem to be on track, several smaller celebrations have folded in recent years. 
 According to Mr. Sullivan, there will be no First Nights on Long Island this year, although he said he is considering applications for next year from four Long Island towns he would not name. (Host communities pay First Night International an initiation fee of $1,800 to $8,000, depending on population. In addition to the First Night name, the organization provides members with insurance benefits and tips for activities through a regular newsletter.) 
 One of the towns weighing some sort of event for next year is Riverhead, according to William London, president of the local Business Improvement District; this year fireworks are planned. 
 ''We're not entirely sure we'll do First Night next year, but we're ready to take things in a new direction,'' he said.
 Greenport, on Long Island, had its last First Night three years ago, according to George Cork Maul, a musician and composer who was its organizer. ''We had it for seven years, and we were getting a good crowd, about 5,000 in our last year,'' he said. ''What happened was we couldn't get anyone to help organize it anymore -- people wanted a break.''
 In some towns, sponsors also want a break. Teaneck, N.J., held First Night for seven years before giving up in 2004, according to Lauren Hooker, a jazz singer and former organizer. ''It really was the volunteers dropping off that stopped it,'' she said.
 But sponsors also played a role. ''Funding wasn't our biggest problem, but it's always a problem,'' Ms. Hooker said. ''Unless you have a huge operating budget, you rely on donors, businesses in the community, to help put on such a huge undertaking.''
 In Danbury, Conn., a shortage of volunteers and money caused First Night to be canceled last year for the first time since 1989. ''There was a lot of disappointment,'' said Andrea Gartner, the manager of Danbury's downtown special services district. This year the event, which drew 7,000 at its peak, is back on track under the district's umbrella. Buttons are $5.
 ''We decided if it didn't happen this year, it would really be gone,'' Ms. Gartner said. ''And we didn't want to let it go.''
 Some communities are equally reluctant about letting New Year's Eve pass without a downtown soiree, but they are taking things into their own hands. 
 In Westchester, the county's Parks Department is putting together an alcohol-free party -- Say Happy New Year! -- from 9 a.m. to 1 a.m. at the Westchester County Center in White Plains. On the bill are a D.J. dance party, an R&B band and an oldies act. According to Karen Sposato, a marketing department representative, up to 3,000 people are expected to pay the $15 fee. 
 ''We have our own resources here, and we have a tradition of doing a New Year's Eve party,'' Ms. Sposato said. ''We don't see any need to sign on with the national name First Night. We don't feel it's necessary.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARTY MIX: Performers at First Night Morris County will include Maurice Chestnut, left, of the New Jersey Tap Dance Ensemble. The Fab Faux, right, a Beatles tribute act, will perform in conjunction with First Night in Montclair, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRANDI MARKS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%); MILLENNIUM (69%); FAMILY (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (64%); STREET ART (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUCKLAND, NEW ZEALAND (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



678 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: The Free Market: A False Idol After All?

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
FOR more than a quarter-century, the dominant idea guiding economic policy in the United States and much of the globe has been that the market is unfailingly wise. So wise that the proper role for government is to steer clear and not mess with the gusher of wealth that will flow, trickling down to the every level of society, if only the market is left to do its magic. 
 That notion has carried the day as industries have been unshackled from regulation, and as taxes have been rolled back, along with the oversight powers of government. Faith in markets has held sway as insurance companies have fended off calls for more government-financed health care, and as banks have engineered webs of finance that have turned houses from mere abodes into assets traded like dot-com stocks. 
 But lately, a striking unease with market forces has entered the conversation. The world confronts problems of staggering complexity and consequence, from a shortage of credit following the mortgage meltdown, to the threat of global warming. Regulation -- nasty talk in some quarters, synonymous with pointy-headed bureaucrats choking the market -- is suddenly being demanded from unexpected places. 
 The Bush administration and the Federal Reserve have in recent weeks put aside laissez-faire rhetoric to wade into real estate, wielding new rules and deals they say are necessary to protect Americans from predatory bankers -- the same bankers who, only a year ago, were being lauded for creativity. Were the market left to its own devices, millions could lose their homes, the administration now says. 
 Central banks on both sides of the Atlantic are coordinating campaigns to flush cash through the global economy, lest frightened lenders hoard capital and suffocate growth. In Bali this month, world leaders gathered in the name of striking agreement to slow climate change. 
 Adam Smith used the metaphor of the invisible hand to describe how markets should function: With everyone at liberty to pursue self-interest, the market omnisciently distributes goods and capital to maximize the benefits for all. Since the Reagan administration, that idea has weighed in as a veritable holy commandment, with the economist Milton Friedman cast as Moses. 
 As the cold war ended and Communism retreated, the invisible hand seemed to monopolize economic thinking. Even China, controlled by a nominally Communist party, has blessed private entrepreneurs and foreign investment. In Latin America, the International Monetary Fund financed governments that embraced market forces while shunning those that were resistant. 
 But now the invisible hand is being asked to account for what it has wrought. In this country, many economic complaints -- from the widening gap between rich and poor to the expense of higher education -- are being dusted for its fingerprints. 
 After two decades of disappointing economic growth, several Latin American countries have spurned the I.M.F. while embracing the finance and thinking of Venezuela's avowedly Socialist leader, Hugo Chavez. China's leaders, though still devoted to ''reform and opening,'' are keeping tight control on the value of the currency while steering capital to powerful state-owned companies, concerned that freer markets could throw millions of peasants out of work. 
 Throughout history, regulation has tended to gain favor on the heels of free enterprise run amok. The monopolistic excesses of the Robber Barons led to antitrust laws. Not by accident did strict new accounting rules follow the unmasking of fraud at Enron and WorldCom. Now, the subprime fiasco and a still unfolding wave of home foreclosures are prompting many to call for new rules. 
 ''We're revisiting the question of market flows with a deservedly wary eye,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the liberal Economic Policy Institute in Washington. ''For decades, economists and political elites have argued that any time you regulate any aspect of the economy, you're slipping the handcuffs on the invisible hand. That's demonstrably wrong in lots of ways.'' 
 But if markets can inflict pain, the harm from trying to tame them is often worse, argue those who would let the invisible hand carry on. The new regulatory tilt threatens to tie up innovation in a straitjacket of bureaucratic nannying while slowing the global economy, they say. 
 ''Every regulation reduces people's freedom,'' said David R. Henderson, a libertarian economist at Stanford University's Hoover Institution. ''The more regulation we get, the worse we do.'' 
 Mr. Henderson is critical of the Bush administration's effort to freeze mortgage rates, and the new rules proposed by the Fed intended to curb nefarious lending. They undermine the sanctity of contracts, he said, while making mortgages harder to gain for everyone. 
 ''The way they justify it is that you've got to protect the stupid people who can't read a contract,'' Mr. Henderson said. ''But they're treating everyone as stupid.'' 
 But in Washington, and under the roofs of many homes now worth less than a year ago, there appears to be a shift in the nation's often-ambivalent attitude about regulation. 
 Back in the boom, banks made loans to homeowners who did not have to prove their ability to pay, then quickly sold the loans to other companies. By the time it emerged that a lot of homeowners could not pay, these loans had been pooled with other loans and chopped into strange new paper assets that were sold to unsuspecting buyers around the globe. The subsequent reckoning has forced major banks to write off vast sums of money. 
 ''Here you had all these people who were supposed to be sophisticated investors, and it turns out they were buying billions of dollars worth of debt where they didn't even understand what they owned,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research. ''There is going to be a willingness to re-regulate financial markets.'' 
 Liberal critics have long asserted that dogmatic devotion to market forces has skewed American society toward those of greatest means. More wealth is being concentrated in fewer hands, with rich people capturing the best housing, private education and health care services, and, as the argument goes, only crumbs left for everyone else. 
 That critique informs proposals from Democrats vying for the presidency, as they debate how best to expand access to health care and ways to shift the tax burden to the rich. They are in essence calling for market intervention to redress imbalances. With the gap between the richest and poorest now greater than it has been since the 1920s, these pitches have emerged as central components of their campaigns
 More notable, though, is how fervent proponents of unfettered market forces have lately come to embrace regulation. 
 The Bush administration, in seeking to freeze mortgage rates for some homeowners, put Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Jr. in charge of the campaign. Mr. Paulson not long ago ran the Wall Street giant Goldman Sachs. Now, he is demanding that banks accept smaller payments than promised, while describing the market as a fallible thing in need of supervision. 
 ''The government acted to prevent a market failure and to try to avoid unnecessary harm,'' he said at a public meeting in California.
 More than a decade ago, when Bill Clinton occupied the White House, he pushed through the landmark North American Free Trade Agreement, which linked the fortunes of Mexico and the United States. But if his wife or one of her Democratic rivals captures the White House next year, they promise a more skeptical look at trade deals. 
 Some argue that the push back against market forces is a momentary pause in a steady march toward unfettered capitalism. The libertarian Cato Institute recently issued a report in which it found that economic freedom -- shorthand for smaller government and fewer regulations -- has never been greater. 
 ''Global economic growth significantly increases with the growth of the world's economic freedom,'' said Ian Vasquez, director of Cato's center for global liberty and prosperity. 
 Few policymakers have a beef with that characterization as a generality. But when things go wrong, demands grow for the government to step in and make them right. 
 ''Untethered market forces lead to bad things,'' said Mr. Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute. ''You simply can't run an economy as complicated as ours on ideology alone.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



679 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; NEW JERSEY; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: This Land Is Newark's Land

 BODY:
In the coming weeks, Newark will begin selling off a new batch of city-owned lots to private developers at market prices. Conspicuous by their absence in this process are the phrases ''sweetheart deals'' and ''politically connected cronies.''
 Or at least that is the hope. This month, Mayor Cory Booker announced plans to auction off surplus city land through a transparent program of competitive bidding. What's more, the Booker strategy will emphasize construction of affordable housing, by companies that employ local and minority workers. 
 Mr. Booker's plan may seem conventional, but it qualifies as a revolution in the way Newark City Hall has conducted land sales in the recent past. Sharpe James, Mr. Booker's predecessor as mayor, is about to go on trial on corruption charges related to a fire sale of city property to political friends and allies carried out during the last few years of his long administration. 
 The Booker reforms were to be expected, but they were welcome all the same. If Newark is to enjoy a widespread, five-ward revival, it must lose its reputation as a place where business is carried out in the shadows. Mr. Booker's plan to make city land sales transparent is a giant leap in the right direction.
 But transparency is not the only welcome aspect of the mayor's strategy. While committed to ending the virtual giveaways of Newark property to developers, he is building in flexibility that will allow developers to buy lots at below-market rates if the city stands to benefit from the construction of housing that Newark residents can afford. Thousands of new units have been built in Newark in recent years, but far too few have been within the means of poor or working-class residents. Instead, politically connected builders have made a fortune selling housing units at inflated-market rates -- after buying the land for as little as $1 a square foot.
 The Booker plan also calls for the creation of a trust fund dedicated to financing more affordable-housing projects as well as parks and other public improvements. Ten percent of the proceeds from the city land sales will be funneled into the trust fund.
 In a related move, the Booker administration recently filed a lawsuit aimed at overturning James-era land sales to developers who have not built on the properties they bought several years ago. The suit, aimed at five developers who purchased 19 properties, was described as just the first step in a series of planned actions against those who bought city property at bargain-basement prices but have failed to develop it. The deals required buyers to build on the parcels within a year and a half of closing.
 If developers have not lived up to their end of their dubious deals with the city, Mr. Booker has every right to seize on the chance to have the transactions canceled. For the most part, however, the damage from the shady transactions has been done. Vacant lots sold at friendly prices have yielded a crop of look-alike housing units that brought huge profits to developers with friends in City Hall.
 But if the past cannot be undone, the future surely can be shaped by the progressive, creative policies of the present. Mr. Booker's strategy combines the openness of competitive bidding with the flexibility necessary to achieve public policy goals, like affordable housing, local employment and environmentally friendly construction. Equally laudable is the mayor's effort to use land-use and zoning regulations to move development in Newark away from the three-story, cookie- cutter homes that were thrown up with such haste in recent years.
 Faced with decades-old problems, from poor schools to high unemployment to unacceptable levels of crime, Mr. Booker has not lacked for issues to tackle since his election last year. Dubious land sales and uninspiring architecture may not seem as pressing as education reform or better access to health care, but they surely are part of Newark's unenviable image as a difficult place to live, and to do business.
 Every step in the right direction is welcome. Mr. Booker's new plan for city property is just that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); LITIGATION (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



680 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; CONSUMED EDWARD F. BOYD B. 1914; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Pepsi Ads

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

 BODY:
Pepsi Ads
 In the late 1940s and early 1950s, a certain unease could be detected about the American drift toward a culture of selling, marketing and consumerism. Even Fortune magazine opined in 1947 that ''the American citizen lives in a state of siege from dawn till bedtime,'' seeming to echo the sentiments raised in the best-selling novel ''The Hucksters'' and the celebrated play ''Death of a Salesman.'' One sales executive at the time, a man named Edward Boyd, later recalled leaving a performance of Arthur Miller's famous play in tears. ''I related to it,'' he said. Even so, Boyd stuck with his job, possibly because his own role in the machinery of American selling was a bit more complex: He was a black man building an African-American sales force within the Pepsi-Cola Company when corporate America was anything but integrated. 
 Boyd was hired by Pepsi, which was based in New York, in 1947, when he was 33; he grew up in California and graduated from U.C.L.A. His story is a key element of the recent book ''The Real Pepsi Challenge,'' from which the above anecdote is taken and in which Stephanie Capparell argues that Boyd and those he hired helped break the color barrier in big business. 
 In the post-World War II economy, black Americans were still marginalized in two ways: in their access to better professional jobs and also as consumers. The latter point was not trivial, if you consider that lunch-counter sit-ins, lawsuits against hotels and other key tactics in the civil rights struggle were fundamentally about marketplace access. According to Capparell, ''Unlike the mainstream media, the African-American press didn't join the chorus of criticism of business.'' Instead, black newspaper publishers informed the marketing trade about the untapped potential of black consumers. No doubt they wanted advertising dollars from the big companies that had previously ignored them, but the implicit message was that in a market-driven economy, consumer equality matters. Ebony went so far as to call the African-American embrace of the Cadillac, and G.M.'s supposed discomfort about that embrace, part of the ''war for racial equality.'' And indeed, part of what Boyd had to contend with was a perception that brands adopted by blacks might be rejected by whites.
 Other companies were using black entertainers and athletes in ads, but Boyd wanted to move in a different direction, with a series of ads called ''Leaders in Their Fields,'' highlighting black professionals, including Ralph Bunche, the diplomat and winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1950. While these were clearly Pepsi ads, schools and universities ordered up copies. For store promotions, Capparell writes, ''he wanted to show a black family in the same kind of idealized setting as those used in mainstream ads.'' And while the ''Leaders'' campaign was extended twice, increasingly the African-Americans in Pepsi's ads tended to be happy, young, bourgeois consumers, and inspirational copy gave way to more familiar (and banal) sales pitches: ''So Much More Fun! So Much More Zest!'' 
 His job was not easy: Boyd was thrown out of hotels and had to confront his white boss about using an offensive racial epithet. But from today's perspective, what seems remarkable isn't the pervasiveness of ignorance and racism but the degree to which these things trumped even the profit motive. Pepsi seemed enlightened by the mere act of openly courting black consumers. Its dominant rival, the Coca-Cola Company, did not advertise in the black press at all until 1951 -- and its ads did not depict black faces until the mid-1950s. 
 Boyd's career at Pepsi ended in 1951. In the years after a management change at the company, he and much of the team he assembled left. After stints at an ad agency, the humanitarian organization CARE and in consulting, he retired in 1981 and started raising alpacas upstate. Meanwhile, the commercial-culture ''state of siege'' that Fortune bemoaned 60 years ago never let up, though today the world depicted in mainstream advertising has become a harmonious place, where buddies of all races happily pursue consumer dreams together. In his comments to Capparell, Boyd seemed proud of his contribution. Perhaps the world depicted in advertising, then and now, was a fantasy, but part of Boyd's thinking seems to be that it's a fantasy that black consumers wanted to be part of -- and would respond to. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY GASLIGHT AD ARCHIVES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (79%); WORLD WAR II (78%); SALES FORCE (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); SALES MANAGEMENT (75%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (61%); AWARDS & PRIZES (61%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%)

COMPANY: PEPSI-COLA CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



681 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 0; Travel Desk; HEADS UP HAWAII SUPERFERRY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Not in My Tropical Backyard

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER PALA

 BODY:
ON Dec. 13, after four months of lawsuits, protests and politics, the Hawaii Superferry finally started service between Honolulu and Maui. The 350-foot catamaran, which can accommodate 866 passengers and 286 cars, promises to revolutionize travel between the islands by allowing people to travel with their cars and possessions, instead of people flying and cars traveling -- empty -- on barges. 
 But critics of the Superferry say that the controversy the ferry generated by sidestepping -- at least for now -- an assessment of its possible environmental effects goes much further than how many calving humpback whales the 850-ton catamaran may kill as it slices through the waves at 40 m.p.h. The Superferry has to produce an environmental impact statement within 18 months, and local protesters say increased congestion and loss of access to beaches from the spread of luxury vacation homes must be considered. 
 ''The few public beaches we have left are already crowded, and the Superferry is just going to bring more people from Honolulu with their pickup trucks,'' said Jimmy Trujillo, an activist leader in Kauai where opposition is so strong that the Superferry is voluntarily staying away from it for now, despite initial plans to link it and Maui with Honolulu. 
 ''Everything seems to be done for tourists,'' said Donna Wong, head of a nonprofit organization called Hawaii's Thousand Friends. ''We already have over seven million tourists, and they want to bring more? Nobody is asking, is seven million already too many?''
 Mr. Trujillo added, ''We're tired of having developments crammed down our throats.'' 
 Though the Superferry is not expected to have any direct effect on construction or tourism, this reaction is part of a backlash against a decade of accelerated construction of vacation homes, condominiums and hotels, mostly in what are known as the Neighbor Islands: all the state's islands except for Oahu, where three-quarters of the state's 1.3 million people live. 
 Paul Brewbaker, the Bank of Hawaii's chief economist, said that the increasingly vocal ''not-in-my-backyard reaction'' came at a time when the real estate market was softening. As a result, he predicted, some developers may just give up and ''the opponents are going to get their wish.''
 That situation would be welcome to residents of Molokai, where Laau Point -- a windswept, wildly beautiful piece of deserted coastline -- has become the hottest battlefront for the heart and soul of Hawaii. There, a giant Asian corporation backed by Hawaii's influential senior senator, Daniel Inouye, a Democrat, and its Republican governor, Linda Lingle, wants to develop Laau Point against the will of a population that has so far succeeded in keeping the number of absentee homes to about 200, the number of hotel rooms to 76 and the number of cruise ship visits to zero.
 ''For us, tourism is just a way for outsiders to take our best places and then offer to pay us to change their sheets,'' said Walter Ritte, a native Hawaiian activist and leader of the Laau Point fight. ''We're proud to be the only island that's pretty much self-sufficient in food, and we want to preserve our traditional Hawaiian lifestyle.''
 A T-shirt sold in the island's tiny town shows a black square with a white moon crescent over the words ''Molokai Night Life.''
 The Laau project would have fostered the construction of 400 vacation homes on 200 two-acre lots to be sold for between $1 million and $2 million. The plan also called for reopening a 150-room hotel closed in 2000.
 Last month, the state land-use board declined to accept the project's environmental impact statement, setting it back at least six months. The move prompted Molokai Ranch -- which owns 40 percent of the island and also operates a boutique hotel and a ''tentalow'' beach resort embroiled in its own legal battle -- to send a letter to employees saying it is losing $4.5 million a year and warning of layoffs.
 A publicist for the ranch, which is a subsidiary of the Hong-Kong based Guoco Group, a leisure and financial services giant, said the management declined comment on its plans. Anthony Ching, who heads the land-use commission's staff, said the rejection was based on technical matters that Molokai Ranch could easily overcome.
 But the commission would have to take public sentiment in consideration in granting the necessary zoning change, he added. And a drive along Molokai's main road reveals scores of little colorful signs singing variations on the theme of ''Save Laau'' and none in favor of the project.
 Todd Matsushita, editor and publisher of the weekly Molokai Dispatch, said polls suggested that only 20 percent of the island's 8,000 people supported the plan, while 70 percent opposed it. DeGray Vanderbilt, head of the county planning commission, said, ''Why insist on the type of development that everyone wants to fight?''
 Meanwhile, Karen M. Holt, director of the nonprofit Molokai Community Service Council, has started a drive to raise $200 million to buy the entire Molokai Ranch. Its first major pledge, for $50 million, came last month from UPC Wind, a Massachusetts-based wind power company that would place some two dozen windmills on the land. ''We have to save the last truly Hawaiian island,'' she said.
 The Superferry and the Laau Point project are not the only ones affected by the backlash. In the Big Island of Hawaii, on a three-mile stretch of lava coastline called Hokulia, a developer started construction in 1999 on a project to prepare 750 lots for luxury vacation homes without the appropriate land-use classification.
 After protests and lawsuits, the developer, Lyle Anderson, said he scaled the project down to 600 homes, sold 250 lots for between $2 million and $4 million, started construction on 10 and applied for a permit with the land-use commission, which will involve public hearings.
 ''Hawaii has some people who are very well-organized to challenge projects,'' he said, ''but otherwise it's not very different from other places.''
 Jeff Mikulina, director of the Hawaii chapter of the Sierra Club, said, ''People are opposed to processes that don't give them the opportunity to shape the outcome.''
 On Oahu's already congested North Shore, Oaktree Capital Management is seeking to expand the 500-room Turtle Bay resort by adding more than 3,500 units combining five hotels and several condominiums on five miles of undeveloped beach. This project too has been delayed by lawsuits and street protests, said Bob Nakata, co-chairman of the Defend Oahu Coalition. The company declined to comment on its plans.
 But there are few protests today emanating from Waikiki Beach in Honolulu. It was built up rapidly and cheaply in the 1960s when jet planes ushered in the era of mass tourism, and much of the rest of Honolulu suffered the same fate in the 1990s.
 ''Native Hawaiians made Waikiki the capital of Oahu because the land was fertile and the reefs made for great surfing,'' said James Kraus, a literature professor at Chaminade University of Honolulu and co-author of ''Waikiki, Hawaii'' in the ''Images of America'' series.
 But today, it has become a forest of featureless high-rises that Mr. Kraus called ''a monumental aesthetic and environmental tragedy.'' Because many were designed by Los Angeles architects, locals denounce the ''Californication'' of their once-gracious city, which is host to 65,000 tourists a day.
 Superferry fares between Honolulu and Kahului Harbor on Maui are $39 per passenger and $55 for cars plus tax until March 12. For information on schedules, visit www.hawaiisuperferry.com or call (877) 443-3779. Service to Kauai is expected to start sometime in 2008 and to the Big Island, with a sister ship, in 2009.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Hawaii Superferry connecting Honolulu and Maui has begun service despite protests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCO GARCIA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP Map of the islands in Hawaii. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); POLITICS (89%); BEACHES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FERRIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); MARINE MAMMALS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); GOVERNORS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF HAWAII CORP (58%)

TICKER: BOH (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: DANIEL INOUYE (58%); LINDA LINGLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (94%) HAWAII, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



682 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; HOUSING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Renters Report Being Stymied by Cost and Supply

BYLINE: By VALERIE COTSALAS

DATELINE: WESTBURY 

 BODY:
 MARIE VERALLO and her husband, Carlos Bezerra, spent the week before Christmas packing up their two-bedroom apartment in Westbury as Ms. Verallo, who is eight months pregnant, prepared to move to North Carolina with their 18-month-old son. Mr. Bezerra will start looking for a small apartment for himself in Queens. 
 This couple are not divorcing but were told they had to leave their apartment at the recently built Archstone complex here. Their landlord announced this month that all the tenants in the 400-unit, 20-building Westbury complex must move out by March so the company can repair extensive water damage and remove mold infestation at the building. 
 Ms. Verallo and Mr. Bezerra, who moved to Westbury from Pennsylvania in January, say they simply cannot afford to live together in a modern apartment in a good neighborhood on Long Island on Mr. Bezerra's salary, which exceeds $100,000 a year, because of high rents and move-in costs. 
 For tenants in a two-bedroom Archstone apartment, the company offered $1,600 in moving expenses and forgave one month's rent. But to rent a similar apartment elsewhere in Nassau or western Suffolk County, the couple would need at least $9,000 just to move in, they and others in the same situation say.
 ''It's just too expensive to move, because you need two months' worth of rent for the security deposit and at least one month rent'' for a rental agent's fee, Ms. Verallo, 38, said. When the couple moved to Archstone, where their rent is $3,125 a month, a security deposit was not required, and there was no broker's fee, she said. 
 And even finding apartments is not easy: Rents on Long Island are generally high, and census data shows that apartments are scarcer there than in other suburban areas. 
 So for now, Mr. Bezerra, 40, will live in a less-expensive apartment close to the corrugated-paper plant in Queens where he is a production manager and his wife will move to North Carolina, where they lived when their son was born. ''It's cheaper in North Carolina,'' Ms. Verallo said. She has already found a larger luxury apartment there for $1,200 a month, she said, adding, ''We're not spending any more time looking for an apartment on Long Island.''
 Many real estate brokers, planners and business and housing advocates acknowledge the shortage of rentals on Long Island.
 ''I don't think there's a lot of doubt that there's a need for more rental housing on Long Island, and a specific need for housing that's in a price range'' affordable to the general work force, said Michael White, the executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board.
 Local governments recognize the need, too. Long Island's county executives, Steve Levy of Suffolk and Thomas R. Suozzi of Nassau, are part of a coalition that has proposed an $87.5 million plan to encourage the construction of affordable housing for sale or rent.
 Compared to similar suburban counties in the New York metropolitan area, Long Island has the smallest percentage of rentals in its housing stock. Only 18.1 percent of the housing stock in Nassau and 18.6 percent in Suffolk is rental housing, said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business and civic association. 
 Data in the association's report this month on housing, from the 2006 American Community Survey of the census, showed rentals making up 36 percent of housing in Westchester; 26.2 percent in Rockland; and 32 percent in Bergen County, in northern New Jersey.
 ''It reflects a culture on Long Island that favors single-family housing on the traditional lot that started with Levittown in the post World War II era,'' Ms. Kamer said.
 But the Island's demographics have ''changed dramatically'' since its suburban boom started when Levittown was carved out of the Hempstead Plains after World War II, she added. There are many more single parents, elderly residents who can no longer maintain a home and young singles, Ms. Kamer said.
 That third group is dwindling, however. The population between 25 and 44 years old declined on Long Island by 122,000 between 2000 and 2006, she said.
 To keep young workers and their families, Long Island needs more condominiums, attached town houses and ''rentals for those who don't have a down payment for a home or are not ready to put down roots yet,'' Ms. Kamer said. 
 She estimates that over the next 10 years, the Island needs 127,000 more units -- for both ownership and lease -- that are affordable to those earning up to 120 percent of the median income, or $109,200 for a family of four.
 Sgt. Major Peedo Pituk, and his wife, Sai, who have a 19-month-old son and a 4-month-old daughter, would agree about the need for rental housing. They are Archstone tenants who are also considering living separately because they say they cannot find a suitable replacement for their $2,700-a-month apartment. 
 Mr. Pituk, 40, an Iraq war veteran who is stationed at the Army's 306th Military Police Battalion in Uniondale for the next three years, was last separated from his family when he left for Iraq.
 Now, Ms. Pituk, 27, may leave with their children to live in San Diego with her father, who can provide child care while she pursues a second college degree. Mr. Pituk said he would find an inexpensive apartment in a one-family house or in a low-income area on Long Island until he returns to Iraq next year. 
 ''There's nowhere to live here,'' said Ms. Pituk, sitting at the couple's dining room table in their two-bedroom apartment, decked out with presents under the tree and with their collection of miniature Christmas village houses. ''Not unless you have enough money to buy a $700,000 house to live decently.''
 The problem is not only finding a rental that is affordable, said Jody O'Donnell, the president of Relocation Solutions, a Northport company that helps employers relocate workers, but also finding one that meets expectations.
 ''Other parts of the country have more apartment complexes than we do, and they're generally newer and they have more amenities than what Long Island offers,'' she said.
 There are older two-story garden apartment complexes where rents start around $1,400 a month, she said. But people moving to Long Island from, for instance , Georgia or Texas, ''may have paid $1,200 a month for a two-bedroom town house, and now they're coming here and they can't get anything that they would touch with a stick for that price,'' Ms. O'Donnell said. 
 Matthew B. Whalen, a vice president of development at AvalonBay Communities, which has several high-end rental apartment complexes in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, said opposition to rental complexes from local residents was still very strong. 
 ''I actually think things have gotten harder,'' Mr. Whalen said. Often the concern is that hundreds of children living in new apartments could place a huge burden on the schools, raising property taxes, he said. 
 Mr. Whalen often produces data from AvalonBay developments showing that taxes from apartment buildings create revenue for school districts that exceeds the costs to educate children in the new apartments.
 He cited AvalonBay's development in Glen Cove, which he said is ''fully occupied, where the downtown is seeing an increase in business for local merchants and there are no new school kids.''
 ''It really has produced what we said to people that it would produce,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FRUSTRATED: Sai, seated, and Peedo Pituk's apartment in Westbury. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LABOR FORCE (73%); SUBURBS (68%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); CENSUS (65%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); PAPER MILLS (61%); EXECUTIVES (61%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



683 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BIGHAM, THOMAS J., JR. (JAKE)

 BODY:
 BIGHAM--Thomas J., Jr. (Jake), of Portland and Rowena, Oregon, died accidentally while windsurfing, one of his great passions, in extreme conditions off the coral reef at Cabo Pulmo, Baja, Mexico on December 22, 2007. Beloved husband of Judith O'Connor and devoted father of Raina, Louisa, and Idabelle. Born July 26, 1957 and raised in New York City. Son of the late Rev. Thomas J. Bigham and Julia Scribner Bigham. Graduated from Salisbury School, Hamilton College and the University of Oregon School of Architecture. Architect in Portland and the Columbia River Gorge. Board member and former chairperson of the Oregon Investment Board for the protection and support of the Columbia River Gorge economy. He was recently appointed a trustee of the Northwest Academy in Portland. Those who knew him appreciated his ever-present sense of humor and ability to lift the spirits of those around him. He was a true leader whose absence will leave a permanent void in the lives of his family and many friends. Survived by his sisters Hildreth McCarthy, M.D., of New Orleans, LA, Mary Binks of Nairobi, Kenya, and Anda Hutchins of New Canaan, CT. A memorial service will be held in Hood River, OR, on Sunday, December 30th, and burial will be in New Marlboro, MA, in the summer. Donations may be made to Columbia River Keeper at www. columbiariverkeeper.org. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); RIVERS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (70%); NAIROBI, KENYA (51%) OREGON, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); LOUISIANA, USA (70%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (91%); MEXICO (91%); KENYA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



684 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: A Hilton in the News (And It's Not Paris)

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
Barron Hilton may well have put a crimp in the party lifestyle of his famous granddaughter Paris -- and in the plans of his 22 other grandchildren -- when he announced last week that he would donate nearly all of his $2.3 billion fortune to the Hilton family foundation. The huge charitable gift includes $1.2 billion from the recent sale of the Hilton Hotels Corporation and from the coming sale of Harrah's Entertainment, the casino company.
 ''My father left 97 percent of his wealth to the Conrad N. Hilton Foundation, and I am proud to follow my father's example,'' said Mr. Hilton, 80, son of the international hotel chain's founder. 
 But the history of the Hilton fortune may not be quite as straightforward as it seems. After Conrad Hilton left his son only a sliver of his fortune when he died in 1979, years of legal wrangling began. Ultimately, Barron Hilton won 60 percent of the income from his father's estate for life -- or about $50 million this year alone. The other 40 percent goes to the foundation.
 Mr. Hilton, who lives in Los Angeles, said his fortune would be placed in a trust. Then, after he dies, 97 percent of the money will be donated to the foundation.
 The money includes $900 million from last month's sale of the Beverly Hills-based Hilton Hotels to the Blackstone Group. Mr. Hilton, who had been the company's co-chairman, also holds $300 million in stock in Harrah's Entertainment. Next year, Harrah's is slated to be sold to the private equity groups Apollo Management and the Texas Pacific Group for $17.1 billion.
 The gift will increase the current $1.1 billion worth of the foundation to $4.5 billion or more, depending on how much the money grows while Mr. Hilton is alive.
 Founded in 1944, the foundation has offices in Reno, Nev., and Los Angeles. It supports causes including housing for the homeless, early childhood education for children with disabilities, and water and sanitation systems for villages in developing countries. Every year, it awards a $1.5 million humanitarian prize to a charitable organization. ELIZABETH OLSON
 BETTER THAN A GOLD WATCH At the retirement parties for its senior executives, the Alberto-Culver Company hands out gifts that keep on giving.
 For example, when William J. Cernugel retired early this year as chief financial officer, he stood to collect $75,000 a year in deferred compensation for the next 15 years. As a reward for ''his long and distinguished service,'' the company, a maker of household and beauty products, decided to double those payments, a present worth more than $1 million. Mr. Cernugel also received a travel voucher worth almost $25,000, according to the company's latest proxy statement.
 Those gifts may have seemed modest after Howard B. Bernick's retirement as Alberto-Culver's chief executive late last year. He received $6.7 million for waiving his severance agreement, $2.7 million as a ''retirement bonus'' and $363,750 as a ''negotiated bonus under his termination agreement.'' PATRICK McGEEHAN 
 FROM SOCCER TO PIZZA The French-Russian businessman Alexandre Gaydamak, an owner of Britain's Portsmouth soccer club, is buying a 52 percent stake in Global Brands for $5.6 million. Global Brands owns the Domino Pizza franchises in Switzerland, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein. 
 When Mr. Gaydamak bought into the soccer team in January 2006, some British journalists raised questions about how he was able to afford the nearly $26 million for the investment. 
 Mr. Gaydamak, 31, said he made his money in banking and real estate, after skipping college and beginning his business career in France at the age of 18.
 He has been a director of several companies that are now defunct, including Europitex, a marketing consultancy, as well as Monarch Fiduciary, Mondiale Property and Turnkey Management.
 He has said publicly that the soccer team was purchased with his own money, not that of his father, Arcadi Gaydamak, a Russian-born billionaire who lives in Israel and owns a soccer club of his own, Beitar Jerusalem. ELIZABETH OLSON 
 THE MALTESE EURO In the holiday rush, you may have missed the fact that in just a few days, the balmy Mediterranean nation of Malta will be joining the euro zone, along with Cyprus.
 ''We should promote our country better so that investors associate other aspects of excellence with Malta besides tourism, which we are best known for,'' Adrian Said, coordinator of an economic policy group called Competitive Malta, was quoted by Agence France-Presse as saying. 
 When Malta, with a population of about 400,000, gives up its lira for the added muscle of the euro, it expects to enliven home-based industries that include electronics, high technology, pharmaceuticals, finance and manufacturing. PHYLLIS KORKKI 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alexandre Gaydamak
Barron Hilton
 Malta, the Mediterranean island chain, will be switching from the lira to the euro, a move some in the nation hope will invigorate industries other than tourism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN BORG CARDONA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); CHARITABLE GIVING (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); CASINOS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TOILETRIES MFG (64%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (61%); EARLY RETIREMENT (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (50%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (50%)

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (93%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (91%); ALBERTO-CULVER CO (62%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (54%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (54%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (53%); TPG CAPITAL LP (53%)

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (91%); BX (NYSE) (54%); APO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (93%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (91%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (91%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (91%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (62%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (62%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); RENO, NV, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEVADA, USA (79%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); MALTA (76%); MEDITERRANEAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



685 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: The Status of Foreclosure S O S

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THE Hope Now alliance, a coalition of mortgage industry executives that is coordinating a response to the foreclosure crisis, features 14 large mortgage companies, counseling agencies, investors, trade groups and one prominent whip, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 But banking regulators in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut said the alliance was missing some important pieces: namely, them. The lack of a coordinated local response, they said, could hinder the financial recovery of thousands of struggling homeowners.
 ''Ignoring the complexities, differences and commonalities of state laws and regulations is a big miss for the Hope Now alliance,'' said Richard H. Neiman, New York's superintendent of banks. The omission, he added, ''exposes the alliance to proposing unrealistic plans without consideration for the complete picture.'' 
 Mr. Neiman said state laws govern the foreclosure process, as well as regulatory guidelines followed by more than 2,700 mortgage bankers in New York alone. 
 Hope Now representatives did not say why they failed to invite state banking leaders into the alliance, but they did not rule out a future invitation. Steve O'Connor, senior vice president for government affairs at the Mortgage Bankers Association, a founding member of the Hope Now alliance, said: ''The alliance is just in its infancy. As our efforts continue, I fully expect we will engage the appropriate state regulatory bodies where they can be of help in reaching these borrowers.''
 Mr. O'Connor's statement slightly mollified area banking officials, like Steven M. Goldman, commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance. Regarding Mr. O'Connor's statement, Mr. Goldman said he was ''hopeful, and now somewhat more optimistic'' about participating in Hope Now's efforts.
 Mr. Neiman said he was ''very encouraged'' by the statement. ''Time is of the essence in addressing this crisis, and I am sure many states will be willing to begin coordinating with the alliance sooner rather than later.''
 Hope Now, a nonprofit organization based in Washington, is addressing foreclosures by publicizing free financial counseling phone lines and by encouraging the industry to more aggressively help struggling borrowers.
 On those fronts, Hope Now has made some early progress. This month, it helped broker an agreement among mortgage lenders and servicers to freeze interest rates for certain borrowers of subprime adjustable rate mortgages. And in November, the organization mailed more than 200,000 letters to borrowers at risk of foreclosure, including 5,459 homeowners in New Jersey, 7,264 in New York and slightly more than 1,880 in Connecticut.
 More mailings followed this month, but many more will be needed as the foreclosure crisis deepens. According to an October report by the Joint Economic Committee in Congress, the absence of significant response by the government and mortgage industry would contribute to 14,100 foreclosures in Connecticut from late 2007 through the end of 2009. In New York, foreclosures would reach nearly 68,000, the committee said, and in New Jersey, the figure would top 35,100.
 State banking officials said that, if nothing else, they would be able to help Hope Now participants pinpoint areas for future outreach efforts. Howard F. Pitkin, Connecticut's banking commissioner, said the state already had a list of areas with the highest risk of foreclosures. ''While I think the Hope Now plan is laudatory and I tip my hat to Secretary Paulson,'' he said, ''I think we could've jointly designed a much better plan.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPH (Source: HSH Associates) Graph showing mortgage rates for the New York region. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



686 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL3-9
 Al Qaeda's Pakistani Face
 The Qaeda network accused by Pakistan's government of killing the opposition leader Benazir Bhutto is increasingly made up not of foreign fighters but of homegrown Pakistani militants bent on destabilizing the country, analysts and security officials say. 1 
 Nawaz Sharif ventured into the political stronghold of his assassinated rival and sought to make common cause against Pakistan's president. 9 
 C.I.A.'s Tape Worries
 Intelligence officials say the Central Intelligence Agency's every action in the drama of its interrogation videotapes was prompted in part by worry about how its conduct might be perceived -- a concern that also fueled a campaign for permission to destroy the tapes. 1 
 General Cites Iraq Progress
 The top American military commander in Iraq said the country had seen a 60 percent fall in violent attacks since June, but cautioned that security gains were ''tenuous'' and ''fragile'' and could be reversed without political and economic progress. 6 
 Riots Follow Kenya Vote
 Riots erupted across Kenya as the results from the country's closely contested elections remained up in the air. 3 
 Hong Kong Vote Delayed
 Chinese officials announced that Hong Kong would have to wait at least another decade for democratic elections to select its leader, and for more than 12 years to have the right to elect the entire legislature directly. 4 
 The authorities have detained a prominent Chinese human rights advocate on suspicion of subversion, stepping up a crackdown on dissent. 4 
 NATIONAL10-18
 Motor Vehicles Change Parks
 From Colorado's forests to Utah's sandstone canyons and the evergreen mountains of Montana, federally owned lands are being transformed into the new playgrounds of the American West. Outdoor enthusiasts are flocking in record numbers to forests, deserts and mountains, where the rules of use have been lax and enforcement infrequent. 1 
 Outbreak in California Prison
 In the past three years, more than 900 inmates at the Pleasant Valley State Prison in California have contracted valley fever, a fungal infection that has been both widespread and lethal. 10 
 Conservatives Fight Bias Bill
 Conservative groups in California are gathering signatures to try to block an anti-discrimination bill because it includes language that would extend protection to public-school students based on their sexual orientation and gender identity. 12 
 NEW YORK/REGION19-20
 Where Witnesses Cower
 The Whitman Park section of Camden, N.J., is on the front lines of a struggle with witness intimidation. Drugs are sold openly, gunfire is the neighborhood soundtrack, and the competing gangs that control the neighborhood have made it clear that the price for defying them is death. 19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); MOUNTAINS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RIOTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (69%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); WITNESSES (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%)

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (73%); NAWAZ SHARIF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KENYA (92%); IRAQ (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



687 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2189 words

HEADLINE: The Shrinking Market Is Changing the Face Of Hip-Hop

BYLINE: By KELEFA SANNEH

 BODY:
UNTIL a few weeks ago it seemed like one of the few happy stories to emerge from an otherwise difficult year in hip-hop. UGK, the Port Arthur, Tex., duo that influenced a generation of Southern rappers, returned after a five-year hiatus. They came back bearing a sublime single, ''Int'l Players Anthem (I Choose You).'' And they came back bearing a great double album, ''Underground Kingz'' (Jive/Zomba), which made its debut atop Billboard's album chart.
 Then, on Dec. 4, the news arrived: Pimp C -- the duo's flamboyant half, a slick drawler and an even slicker producer -- had been found dead in his hotel room. His bereaved musical partner, Bun B, gave a handful of eloquent interviews, trying to explain what he had lost, what fans had lost. 
 ''I appreciate the concern,'' he told Vibe. ''But I wouldn't ask anyone to stop their life, because Pimp would've wanted us all to keep grinding.'' 
 If you're looking for a two-word motto for hip-hop in 2007, you could do worse than that: ''Keep grinding.'' This was the year when the gleaming hip-hop machine -- the one that minted a long string of big-name stars, from Snoop Dogg to OutKast -- finally broke down, leaving rappers no alternative but to work harder, and for fewer rewards. Newcomers arrived with big singles and bigger hopes, only to fall off the charts after selling a few hundred thousand copies, if that. Hip-pop hybrids dominated the radio, but rappers themselves seemed like underground figures, for the first time in nearly two decades. 
 Sales are down all over, but hip-hop has been hit particularly hard. Rap sales slid fell 21 percent from 2005 to 2006, and that trend seems to be continuing. It's the inevitable aftermath, perhaps, of the genre's vertiginous rise in the 1990s, during which a series of breakout stars -- Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Tupac Shakur, the Notorious B.I.G. -- figured out that they could sell millions without shaving off their rough edges. By 1997 the ubiquity of Puff Daddy helped cement hip-hop's new image: the rapper as tycoon. Like all pop-music trends, like all economic booms, this one couldn't last. 
 This was a bad year for hip-hop sales, but it wasn't necessarily a bad year for the genre. The scrappy New York independent Koch flourished, releasing a couple of great CDs by major-label refugees: ''Return of the Mac,'' by Prodigy from Mobb Deep, and ''Walkin' Bank Roll,'' by Project Pat. (Koch also released ''We the Best,'' a sanctioned mixtape by DJ Khaled that produced a couple of hip-hop hits, and ''The Brick: Bodega Chronicles,'' the well-received debut album from Joell Ortiz.)
 And then there is Turf Talk, a loudmouthed upstart from Vallejo, Calif., who made arguably the year's most exciting hip-hop album, ''West Coast Vaccine (The Cure).'' It came out through Sick Wid' It Records, which is run by his cousin, the rapper E-40. (The album was released through a distribution deal with Navarre, which sold its music distribution business to Koch in May.) And despite Turf Talk's flamboyant rhymes, the album has pretty much remained a secret. Without a national radio hit or even a proper music video, Turf Talk has promoted the CD mainly through West Coast regional shows, from San Diego to Tacoma, Wash.
 Reached by telephone at his home in Concord, Calif., Turf Talk tried to put the best spin on a mixed-up year. ''The independent game is starting to shine again,'' he said. But when pressed, he said he would love to cross over to the mainstream, speaking in the third person: ''Turf Talk wants to be known all across the world.'' 
 A few years ago that might have seemed like a reasonable goal, and an attainable one. During the boom the industry was flooded with scowling optimists: small-time hustlers with dreams of big-time success. And some dreams came true. In 1998 Juvenile went from a New Orleans secret to a pop radio staple, selling five million copies of ''400 Degreez''; two years later, Nelly came from nowhere (actually St. Louis) to sell six million copies of ''Country Grammar.'' Overall CD sales peaked in 2000, and by then even second-tier major-label rappers were routinely earning gold plaques for shipping half a million CDs. 
 Because hip-hop is so intensely self-aware, and self-reflexive, it came to be known as big-money music, a genre obsessed with its own success. If we are now entering an age of diminished commercial expectations, that will inevitably change how hip-hop sounds too. 
 How bad are the numbers? Well, no rapper was more diminished by 2007 than 50 Cent, who challenged Kanye West to a sales battle and lost. His solid but not thrilling recent album, ''Curtis'' (Shady/Aftermath/Interscope), has sold about 1.2 million copies, according to Nielsen SoundScan; considering that he's supposed to be the genre's biggest star, that's a disaster. (His 2005 album, ''The Massacre,'' sold more than five million.) In fact ''Curtis'' has sold about the same as T. I.'s ''T. I. vs. T. I. P.'' (Atlantic), the underwhelming and underperforming follow-up to his great 2006 album, ''King,'' which sold about 1.6 million. 
 This year veterans like Jay-Z and Wu-Tang Clan also returned, pleasing old fans but not, for the most part, making new ones. And Lil Wayne released another slew of great mixtapes -- available for free download, not for sale. Meanwhile Mr. West's ''Graduation'' (Roc-A-Fella/Island Def Jam), which stands at 1.8 million sold and counting, is the only hip-hop album of the year that really seems like a hit, although he loves to portray himself as outside the hip-hop mainstream. Only one problem: After a year when the hitmaker Fabolous and the bohemian Common sold about equally, as did the BET favorite Yung Joc and the indie-rap alumnus Talib Kweli, it's not clear that there's still a hip-hop mainstream to be outside.
 And eager newcomers discovered that the definition of success has changed. Rich Boy, Shop Boyz, Plies, Hurricane Chris and Soulja Boy Tell'em all released major-label debuts, buoyed by big, lovable hits: ''Throw Some D's,'' ''Party Like a Rockstar,'' ''Shawty,'' ''A Bay Bay'' and ''Crank That (Soulja Boy).'' But of those only Soulja Boy has managed to sell half a million CDs. Hurricane Chris's disappointing CD, ''51/50 Ratchet'' (Polo Grounds/J Records), has sold only about 80,000 copies. To a major label that number is almost indistinguishable from zero. (Despite the hit the No. 1 chart debut and the half-decade of anticipation, UGK's triumphant double album hasn't reached the half-million mark either.)
 Hip-hop has always had a complicated relationship with full-length albums. They're both too long (for impatient hit lovers) and too short (for ephemera- obsessed mixtape listeners). And even though the South has been hip-hop's most fertile region since the 1990s, the industry, based in New York and Los Angeles, harbors a lingering anti-Southern bias. Southern rappers are often viewed as one-hit wonders, and that can be a self-fulfilling prophecy. By the time Rich Boy, from Mobile, Ala., tried to drum up interest in his excellent fourth single, ''Let's Get This Paper,'' it seemed everybody had already moved on.
 At least independent-label rappers have no one to blame. Turf Talk knew from the start that he would have to fight for his album, which he released in June. ''I had a lot of hopes for 'West Coast Vaccine,' that's why I'm still pushing it now,'' he said, adding that he was finalizing plans for a video. The song he chose was ''Popo's,'' a sleek and infectious collaboration with E-40, who adds a memorable touch: a thunderous ''Oooh!'' In his mesmerizing verses, Turf Talk raps about selling drugs and avoiding the police. His breathless rhymes -- ''I'm tryna stack every dollar,'' he pants -- evoke not a kingpin's confidence but a survivor's tenacity.
 It's easy to romanticize Turf Talk's grass-roots approach: his do-it-yourself video shoot, his evident pride in how much he has accomplished on his own, his commitment to the family business. But for him the promise of exposure and the long shot at stardom are too tempting to reject. 
 ''I love the independent money,'' he said. ''I'm living good, I drive nice cars. But right now, if you asked me, I'd say, 'Turf Talk wants to go major.' Because you can always come back to independent.''
 That's what Prodigy discovered. Last year his duo, Mobb Deep, flopped with ''Blood Money,'' a misconceived CD on 50 Cent's label, G Unit, an Interscope imprint. This year he went independent for ''Return of the Mac,'' a hallucinogenic, willfully obscure solo album that evokes the grimy old New York, and the grimy old Prodigy too. (It sold about 130,000 copies.) He has a new album scheduled for next year, though he pleaded guilty in October to gun possession and was sentenced to three and a half years. His new single, ''ABC's,'' begins with a halfway defensive boast: ''It don't matter who poppin' for the moment/P is forever.'' If you're not making hits, why not claim to be making history? 
 Like Prodigy, Project Pat is a major-label refugee. He emerged from Memphis in the late '90s and swiftly took advantage of the hip-hop boom. ''Chickenhead,'' his memorable but medium-sized hit (it peaked at No. 24 on Billboard's Hot R&B/Hip-Hop chart), helped his 2001 major-label album, ''Mista Don't Play: Everythangs Workin,'' sell nearly 1.1 million copies. (Five years ago, in other words, Project Pat sold about as well as 50 Cent sells today.)
 After a prison sentence and an underperforming major-label comeback, Project Pat made his Koch debut with ''Walkin' Bank Roll.'' The boast in the title track is a defiant (and typically absurd) response to his diminished commercial success: ''I'm a walkin' bank roll/You can rubber-band me,'' he keeps shouting, and his glee is infectious. It's a weird, funny little album; though it has sold only about 40,000 copies, it feels triumphant.
 Is it possible to hear a shrug over the phone? Project Pat, when asked about his newfound independence, seemed profoundly unimpressed. ''It's the same old, same old,'' he shouted, over the roar of a Mortal Kombat game, though he conceded, ''People say they liked it better.'' He said he was planning his next album and gearing up for more live dates, which are crucial for independent acts. ''Alaska -- yessirrr, Anchorage,'' he said, sounding a bit like the eccentric rapper from the CDs. ''They asked for me per-son-al-ly.''
 Under-the-radar releases, weird tour schedules, modest sales figures: none of this is new. The success of Southern hip-hop in the last decade was built on a foundation of independent and independent-minded rappers, many of whom worked with the scrappy regional distributor Southwest Wholesale, which is now closed, like many of the little shops it used to serve. In an earlier era these regional scenes were farm teams for the industry, grooming the top players and then sending them up to the big leagues. But what if there are no big leagues anymore? What if there's no major label willing or able to help Turf Talk get his platinum plaque? Would his next album sound as brash? Will his musical descendants be as motivated? The mainstream hip-hop industry relies on a thriving underground, but isn't the reverse also true?
 Eventually, a (new?) group of executives will find a business model that doesn't depend on shiny plastic discs, or digital tracks bundled together to approximate them. But for now the major league is starting to look a lot like the minor one. And in ways good and bad and utterly unpredictable, rappers may have to reconsider their place in the universe, and their audience. Some will redouble their commitment to nonsense, like Project Pat. Some will wallow in their misery, like Prodigy. Some will merely revel in their own loudmouthiness, like Turf Talk, hoping someone will pay attention. But if sales keep falling, more and more rappers will have to face the fact that they aren't addressing a crowd, just a sliver of one.
 On Oct. 14, less than two months before Pimp C's death, there was another death in the Houston hip-hop family. His name was Big Moe, and he died of a heart attack. He was a much more local figure than Pimp C: a crooner turned rapper and an associate of DJ Screw, who popularized the art of remixing records by slowing them down. (DJ Screw died in 2000.) Big Moe's best tracks are sublime and disorienting. His was a huge, wobbly sing- rapping voice, often paired with slowed-down drums and lyrics extolling the pleasures of cough syrup.
 Big Moe eventually got himself a deal, but his odd and entertaining 2002 major- label debut, ''Purple World'' (Priority/Capitol), quickly disappeared, and soon he was back to independent releases. It's no slight to his legacy to say that when news of his death arrived in October, even most hip-hop fans didn't know who he was. That's all right. Music that seems lost -- there's a head-spinning selection on ''Big Moe Classics Volume One'' (Wreckshop) -- will be found, over and over again. And after this dispiriting year, it's not hard to admire Big Moe's little career. He made secrets, not hits, but so what? He kept grinding.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prodigy, left, went independent this year with ''Return of the Mac'' after his duo, Mobb Deep, released an album on 50 Cent's G Unit label that flopped. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RICARD/RETNA) (pg. AR28)
Project Pat, left, once had success on a major label but now records for an independent. 50 Cent, below, challenged Kanye West to a sales battle and lost: Mr. West's ''Graduation'' has outsold 50 Cent's ''Curtis'' by about half a million copies. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW SALACUSE/RETNA
VALDRIN XHEMAJ/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg. AR28)
 Without a national radio hit or a video, the California rapper Turf Talk is taking a grass-roots approach to promoting his CD ''West Coast Vaccine (The Cure).'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. AR1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAP MUSIC (91%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); SALES FIGURES (88%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); POP & ROCK (76%); MUSIC (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%)

PERSON: 50 CENT (90%); KANYE WEST (78%); SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



688 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1826 words

HEADLINE: The Debt Crisis, Where It's Least Expected

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
THE Indiana Children's Wish Fund, which grants wishes to children and teenagers with life-threatening illnesses, got an early Christmas gift nine days ago. Morgan Keegan, a brokerage firm in Memphis, made an undisclosed payment to the charity to settle an arbitration claim; the Wish Fund said it had lost $48,000 in a mutual fund from Morgan Keegan that had invested heavily in dicey mortgage securities. 
 Coming less than two months after the charity filed its claim, and as a reporter was inquiring about its status, the settlement is a rare consolation for an investor amid all the pain still being generated by the turmoil in the once-bustling mortgage securities market. Before the Wish Fund reached its settlement, its mortgage-related losses meant that nine children's wishes would go ungranted.
 Against the backdrop of all the gigantic numbers defining the subprime debacle, the Wish Fund's losses look like small potatoes. The crisis has generated almost $100 billion in losses or write-offs at the world's largest financial institutions, cost a couple of Fortune 100 chief executives their jobs, wiped out billions of dollars in stock market value and hammered the reputations of the nation's top credit rating agencies. Reports of the devastation that foreclosures are wreaking on borrowers also bring home the effects of this remarkable financial mess. 
 Still, the Wish Fund's experience is instructive because so little has emerged about the losses that investors have incurred in these securities, perhaps because few holders have wanted to disclose them. Some investors may still not know how much they have been hurt by the crisis. 
 As this debacle unfolds, accounts of investor losses in mortgage securities will come to light. And Wall Street's role as the great enabler -- providing capital to aggressive lenders and then selling the questionable securities to investors -- will be front and center.
 Richard Culley, a blind lawyer in Indianapolis, founded the Wish Fund in 1984; since then, it has granted 1,800 wishes to children ages 3 to 18. The fund has roughly $1 million in assets and is not affiliated with the national Make-A-Wish Foundation. Local medical centers submit names for potential recipients. 
 The Wish Fund's foray into mortgage securities began in June, when Terry Ceaser-Hudson, the executive director, consulted her local banker, Steve Perius, about certificates of deposit coming due in the charity's account. She said the banker, with whom she had done business for 20 years, suggested that she invest the money in a bond fund offered by Morgan Keegan. The firm is an affiliate of her banker's employer, Regions Bank.
 Ms. Ceaser-Hudson's banker put her in contact with a Morgan Keegan broker to help her make a decision. Mr. Perius did not return a phone call seeking comment.
 ''I thought I was making a lateral move from the C.D.'s into this fund,'' Ms. Ceaser-Hudson said. ''The broker said he'd put some thought into this and he had something perfect for the Wish Fund that was extremely safe.'' 
 That broker was Christopher Herrmann, and when Ms. Ceaser-Hudson met him at her banker's office, she quizzed him about the risks in the Regions Morgan Keegan Select Intermediate Bond fund, which he recommended. 
 ''The first thing I said to him when I sat down was, 'I want to make sure that I understand this: you're telling me that this is as safe as a money market or C.D., because we cannot afford to lose one single penny,''' she recalled. ''He said, 'This has been good for years,' so I thought, 'O.K.'''
 On June 26, the Wish Fund put almost $223,000 into the Morgan Keegan fund. The charity's timing could not have been worse. That same week, two Bear Stearns hedge funds, with heavy exposure to mortgages, were collapsing. Turmoil in the mortgage market, which had been percolating since late winter, was about to explode.
 AT the helm of the Morgan Keegan fund was James C. Kelsoe Jr., a money manager at the brokerage firm's asset management unit, based in Birmingham, Ala. A longtime bull on mortgage securities, Mr. Kelsoe rode that wave and earned a reputation as a hotshot money manager. As of June 30, he also oversaw six other Morgan Keegan bond funds, which included about $4.5 billion in assets. 
 One of Mr. Kelsoe's major suppliers of mortgage securities was John Devaney, 37, a flashy mortgage trader and founder of United Capital Markets, a brokerage firm in Key Biscayne, Fla. During the mortgage boom, Mr. Devaney built up a net worth of $250 million, he told The New York Times in an interview early this year. 
 However much both men initially prospered from doing business together, some investors who wound up holding Morgan Keegan's mortgage securities were less fortunate -- the Wish Fund, for example. 
 More than two weeks after Ms. Ceaser-Hudson invested in the Morgan Keegan fund, she received her first brokerage statement. She said she was stunned to learn that within days of its initial investment in the bond portfolio, the Wish Fund had lost $5,000. By late September, with the credit markets frozen and the net asset value of the bond fund plummeting, Ms. Ceaser-Hudson ordered the stake to be sold. She received about $174,000, representing a loss of 22 percent within 90 days. 
 On Nov. 2, she filed an arbitration case against Morgan Keegan, contending that Mr. Herrmann's investment recommendation was unsuitable for the Wish Fund and that he had breached his duty to it. A spokeswoman for Morgan Keegan said that neither Mr. Kelsoe nor Mr. Herrmann would comment for this article. ''Jim Kelsoe is fully focused on managing his fund portfolios during these volatile market conditions,'' said the spokeswoman, Kathy Ridley. 
 The Morgan Keegan fund, which had assets of about $1 billion in March, is down almost 50 percent this year. It was weighted with risky and illiquid mortgage-related securities. 
 For example, at the end of September, the intermediate fund in which Ms. Ceaser-Hudson invested had almost 17 percent of its assets in mortgage-related securities -- including collateralized mortgage obligations, home equity loans and pools of mortgages that were again combined into collateralized debt obligations. Mortgage exposure in the six other portfolios that Mr. Kelsoe manages ranged recently from 5 percent to 14 percent.
 For several years, Mr. Kelsoe's embrace of mortgage securities paid off for his clients. His fund was started in March 1999 and generated positive returns each year until 2007. Through the end of 2006, it had an average annual return of about 4.5 percent, after taxes. 
 Mr. Kelsoe's love affair with mortgage debt paralleled that of Mr. Devaney, one of those colorful and cocky Wall Street figures who appear during market booms only to sink from sight in the ensuing busts. 
 Living in a home on the Intracoastal Waterway, Mr. Devaney surrounded himself and his family with Renoirs and Cezannes. Outside floated his 142-foot yacht called Positive Carry, a reference to borrowing money at a lower rate than you receive on your investment. He also owned the house that was used as the setting for the Al Pacino film ''Scarface.'' 
 In addition to running United Capital, Mr. Devaney also oversaw United Real Estate Ventures and several hedge funds with roughly $650 million under management as of early this summer. In July, he halted redemptions in the hedge funds as the market swooned for his favorite mortgage securities. 
 A 2004 profile of Mr. Devaney in US Credit magazine said that he considered Mr. Kelsoe one of his most valued customers. United Capital Markets, the article said, was most often a buyer of bonds from Wall Street and mortgage issuers; the firm had far fewer clients to whom it sold those securities. One of the biggest buyers was Mr. Kelsoe and his mutual funds. 
 ''I have found John to be very aggressive in his ability to find interesting trading ideas,'' Mr. Kelsoe was quoted as saying of Mr. Devaney in the profile.
 Mr. Devaney did not return a phone call seeking comment. 
 Thomas A. Hargett, a lawyer at Maddox Hargett & Caruso in Indianapolis, represented the Wish Fund in its arbitration claim against Morgan Keegan. He declined to discuss the settlement struck by the firm and its former client. But he did say that ''at the end of the day, your everyday broker and many investment professionals did not understand the risk associated with these complex derivative mortgage investments.'' 
 The independent directors who served on the Regions Morgan Keegan mutual funds' board also may have misjudged the risk. 
 The board includes Jack R. Blair, nonexecutive chairman of DJO Inc., an orthopedic equipment company; Albert C. Johnson, an independent financial consultant; W. Randall Pittman, chief financial officer of Emageon Inc., a health care information systems company; Mary S. Stone, a certified public accountant and University of Alabama professor; and Archie W. Willis III, a former first vice president at Morgan Keegan who is president of Community Capital, a financial advisory and real estate development company. 
 Another director, James Stillman R. McFadden, is chief manager of McFadden Communications, a commercial printing concern that does work for Regions Bank, government filings show. Between 2005 and June 30, 2007, Mr. McFadden's firm received $2.46 million in revenue from the relationship, or 5 percent of his company's sales during the period. 
 Because most of the directors did not own shares in the devastated bond funds, they have not been hurt by their sharp decline. Among the six independent directors, only two owned shares in the funds as of last September: Mr. McFadden owned between $1 and $10,000 worth, while Mr. Willis owned between $10,001 and $50,000 worth, according to regulatory filings. 
 The Morgan Keegan spokeswoman said that none of the directors would be available to discuss their oversight or ownership of the funds. 
 Now that the Wish Fund's complaint has been settled, Ms. Ceaser-Hudson can carry on the organization's work.
 Among the wishes that the charity recently granted were a family trip to Yellowstone National Park for an 8-year-old girl, Mary Ann, and her family and a meeting earlier this month between 14-year-old Samantha and Miley Cyrus, the Disney television star who plays Hannah Montana. (The Wish Fund did not release last names of recipients.)
 In mid-December, Ms. Ceaser-Hudson set up a shopping spree, complete with limousine transportation, for Sabe, a 3 1/2-year-old handicapped boy with leukemia. Last April, Andrew, 17, got his wish to meet Peyton Manning, the Indianapolis Colts quarterback, and to attend a team practice. The teenager, who had cancer, died a week after his wish was granted. 
 ''What we do try to do is make every single wish a quality wish, no matter what the cost,'' Ms. Ceaser-Hudson said. ''We try to make it something the family and child will always remember.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Terry Ceaser-Hudson, right, of the Indiana Children's Wish Fund, with Melissa Nicholson and her son, Sabe. The fund settled with a brokerage firm over investment losses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY A. J. MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
John Devaney rode the housing boom by selling mortgage-related debt. One customer was the brokerage firm that sold such risky investments to the Wish Fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU1)
A week before he died, Andrew, 17, met his hero, the Indianapolis quarterback Peyton Manning.
 Samantha, left, is a fan of ''Hannah Montana,'' and after a concert this month in Indianapolis, she met the star, Miley Cyrus. Samantha has leukemia, and the Indiana Children's Wish Fund arranged the meeting. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE INDIANA CHILDREN'S WISH FUND) (pg.BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BONDS (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (77%); FORECLOSURE (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); BOND FUNDS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (74%); JOHN DEVANEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



689 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Shake, Rattle and Roil the Grand Ol' Coalition

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
AS a Republican presidential primary candidate, Mike Huckabee is a puzzle.
 A Southern Baptist pastor and thoroughgoing social conservative, Mr. Huckabee has struck a distinctly populist chord when it comes to economics. He has criticized executive pay, sympathized with labor unions, denounced ''plutocracy,'' and mocked the antitax group the Club for Growth as ''the Club for Greed.'' And when it comes to foreign affairs he sometimes sounds almost liberal; for example, comparing the United States' place in the world to ''a top high school student, if it is modest about its abilities and achievements, if it is generous in helping others, it is loved.''
 Yet he has surged to the head of the pack in polls of Iowa Republicans in the week before their caucus and moved close to the front in national polls as well. Now his success is setting off a debate in his party over whether his success marks the fading of the old Reaganite conservative coalition -- social conservatives, antitax activists and advocates of a muscular defense -- or, rather, offers a chance for its rejuvenation. 
 ''It's gone,'' said Ed Rollins, who once worked as President Reagan's political director and recently became Mr. Huckabee's national campaign chairman. ''The breakup of what was the Reagan coalition -- social conservatives, defense conservatives, antitax conservatives -- it doesn't mean a whole lot to people anymore.'' 
 ''It is a time for a whole new coalition -- that is the key,'' he said, adding that some part of the original triad might ''go by the wayside.'' 
 So far, the leadership of all three factions of the old coalition has shown little more than disdain for the idea of a President Huckabee. The Club for Growth has flooded Iowa with commercials mocking him as a compulsive spender when he was the governor of Arkansas who never met a tax he did not like. Some hawks complain that he is to the left of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton on foreign policy.
 Even among Christian conservatives -- Mr. Huckabee's natural constituency -- most national leaders gave him the cold shoulder, complaining that he worked too hard to distance himself from them and their allies. ''You can't just say 'respect life' exclusively in the gestation period,'' he often says, or, ''I believe in the Bible but I am just not angry about it.''
 In a sign of how intertwined the leadership of that old three-part Reaganite alliance has grown, some of the most prominent Christian conservative political leaders have even faulted Mr. Huckabee because his economic populism or slim defense credentials would irk their allies. ''I think out of respect to the other members of the coalition, some evangelicals have held back because he is a challenge to some in the foreign policy ranks and even some fiscal conservative groups are opposed to him,'' Tony Perkins, president of the Christian conservative Family Research Council recently told CNN. 
 Rich Lowry, editor of the conservative standard-bearer National Review, warned of ''Huckacide'' for the party if it gives him the nomination. Now Rush Limbaugh, the loudest voice of the conservative movement, has joined the chorus, accusing Huckabee of practicing ''identity politics'' (as an evangelical) and conservative apostasy. He told his listeners that Mr. Huckabee's record is ''not even anywhere near conservative.''
 Mr. Rollins, for his part, traced Mr. Huckabee's political lineage back to George Wallace in 1968 (without the segregationism). Mr. Wallace and, later, Pat Buchanan and Ross Perot appealed to the same blocs of working-class voters and socially conservative white Southerners that the Republican Party began trying to court in Senator Barry Goldwater's 1964 campaign. 
 Reagan finally captured those voters for the Republican Party by rallying them against abortion and the Communist threat at a time when the Democrats had shifted to the left on cultural and defense issues. They became the so-called Reagan Democrats. But many never lost their ear for the old economic populist appeals, and over time many drifted into political independence -- coming home for George W. Bush, but abandoning the party in droves in the 2006 midterms.
 Mr. Huckabee, Mr. Rollins said, could win back those voters, but not with the same combination of issues. The rash of corruption scandals and pork-barrel projects that plagued the House of Representatives under Republican rule tarnished the old image of the party as the champion of limited government, while dismay at the Bush administration over the Iraq war was a blot on the party's national security credentials. 
 ''It is time to go get those independents back again,'' Mr. Rollins argued. ''Huckabee fits the bill.''
 Some doubt Mr. Huckabee's distinctive style will translate as well beyond Midwestern states like Iowa -- the region where Christian populism was born in the person of William Jennings Bryan. ''I see Huckabee as more of a Prairie populist than what I would consider a traditional conservative,'' said former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, a stalwart of the conservative movement once considered a 2008 presidential contender himself. ''I don't see how he takes that show across the East Coast or even the Midwest.''
 Still, he acknowledged that in some ways Mr. Huckabee's combination of social conservatism and sympathy for the working class also touched a fault line that ran further through the Republican Party, including in his home state of Pennsylvania. 
 ''He would do very, very well in southwestern Pennsylvania, Reagan Democrat country,'' where many socially conservative working-class voters ''have a heart for the poor and, unfortunately, think of government as the answer,'' Mr. Santorum said.
 A few Christian conservative leaders applaud Mr. Huckabee for his independence of the other factions of the conservative movement. ''We have been saying for years that you can't build a winning coalition based on low taxes and limited government anymore, because you need to reach out to middle-class voters,'' said Randy Brinson, founder of the evangelical youth voter-registration group Redeem the Vote and a friend of Mr. Huckabee's. ''The gulf between the haves and have-nots -- that really is going on.''
 Mr. Brinson argued that Mr. Huckabee had, in a sense, taught the established Christian conservative leadership a lesson about its own clout by talking directly to the people in the pews. ''He showed you can have a much larger effect than by going to a self-appointed Christian conservative leader,'' Mr. Brinson said. (Mr. Huckabee was the Redeem the Vote's national advisory committee chairman before running for the nomination and his campaign has rented its e-mail lists of 414,000 voters in Iowa and 25 million around the country.)
 Still, some veteran conservative organizers note that beneath the rhetoric Mr. Huckabee is still positioning himself in many ways as a Reaganite, including pledging not to raise taxes.
 Many discount the possibility that he will win the nomination because he has too little money and there are tougher battles ahead after the heavily evangelical Iowa caucuses. But they contend that he can energize previously demoralized Christian conservatives and, at 52, is a relatively young politician with a future in the party who will probably do his best to turn them out for the nominee. 
 ''My fantasy out of this race is that Huckabee will create another Christian Coalition,'' said Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform, recalling the group that grew out of Pat Robertson's 1988 campaign and became a political force for much of the next decade. ''If you could have the equivalent of the Christian Coalition, it would be a bulwark for the Goldwater-Reagan wing of the party.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GUNNING FOR VOTES: Mr. Huckabee meets the media on a hunting trip in Osceola, Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH BEDFORD/REUTERS)
 MIXING: Mike Huckabee, here at the Lizard's Thicket restaurant in Columbia, S.C., has many enemies in his own party. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RELIGION (73%); LABOR UNIONS (57%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (77%) IOWA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



690 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: How Personal Wealth Shapes Policy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Two Candidates, Two Fortunes, Two Distinct Views of Wealth'' (front page, Dec. 23):
 Your otherwise illuminating article on the different lessons that John Edwards and Mitt Romney have drawn from financial success is marred by the assertion that ''basic economics'' is one of the main causes of increasing income inequality.
 In this view, choices made by governments disappear behind what is presented as somehow natural and inevitable: the emergence of a global, high-tech economy where ''the most successful workers can be more productive and can play on a bigger field.'' 
 In fact, there is nothing ''basic'' about this. There are realistic alternatives to the exaltation of an unconstrained market. Restoring greater freedom from the market (via government regulation that honors values like equality, community, and fair play) is one such alternative being embraced by more and more people across the political spectrum. 
 Craig Gurian New York, Dec. 23, 2007
 To the Editor:
 There is a critical distinction between Mitt Romney's and John Edwards's wealth. Mr. Romney, as a businessman, made investments that created wealth. Mr. Edwards, as a trial lawyer, made his money through lawsuits that merely took from one pocket and gave to another, and probably destroyed wealth in the process. (Mr. Edwards's multimillion-dollar medical malpractice verdicts almost certainly hurt the quality of health care in North Carolina.)
 Little wonder that Mr. Romney understands that to improve the economy, one needs to expand the pie, while Mr. Edwards's policy proposals focus entirely on the redistribution of the existing pie without thought for the future adverse consequences to the size of the pie.
 Theodore H. Frank Washington, Dec. 23, 2007 The writer is a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research.
 To the Editor:
 Your article comparing the lives and attitudes of two wealthy presidential candidates, John Edwards and Mitt Romney, is accompanied by very informative diagrams that show that for much of the three decades after World War II, the income of the typical American family rose faster than the incomes of the richest Americans, but since then, the income gains of the rich have far outpaced those of the middle class.
 According to a recently released report by the Congressional Budget Office, further data show that the rich are getting richer much faster. Just the increase in incomes of the top 1 percent of Americans between 2003 and 2005 exceeded the total income of the poorest 20 percent of Americans.
 It does seem that gross discrimination in favor of the rich and against the poor has become a hallmark of the Bush administration.
 Our government, in former times described as ''of the people, by the people, for the people,'' now seems to have become ''of the wealthy, by the wealthy, for the wealthy.''
 Is this really the way that we want to have our country run? 
 Caroline Herzenberg Chicago, Dec. 23, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Your article comparing the attitudes toward wealth in America of Mitt Romney and John Edwards includes a picture of the tiny frame house where Senator Edwards grew up in Robbins, N.C., the son of a mill worker. He attended public elementary and high school, and was the first in his family to go to college.
 What's missing from the article is a picture of the home where Mr. Romney grew up, the son of a wealthy automobile manufacturing executive and future Michigan governor, while attending the private Cranbrook School with its 319-acre campus.
 A photo comparison of the boyhood homes would have gone a long way toward explaining to the readers of The Times the two men's differing attitudes toward wealth in America and why Mr. Romney can say, ''I don't believe there are two Americas.''
 Andy Ayers St. Louis, Dec. 24, 2007
 To the Editor:
 The photo of Mitt Romney provides a perfect counterpoint to his quote, ''I don't believe there are two Americas.'' He is sitting in a chauffeur-driven S.U.V. Talk about your ''haves'' and ''have mores.''
 Once again, a picture is worth a thousand words. 
 Joseph M. McHale Sr. Hackensack, N.J., Dec. 23, 2007

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON LOGAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); WRITERS (73%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (70%); LITIGATION (70%); HEALTH CARE (69%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (65%); LAWYERS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (90%); MITT ROMNEY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



691 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Change? Experience? Or ...

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Resume Can't Buy You Love,'' by Frank Rich (column, Dec. 23): 
 Of all the candidates running for president, the one with the least baggage and greatest enthusiasm is Senator Barack Obama. He is very intelligent, likable, honest, confident and has a positive vision for America's future. 
 His unique life experiences are a great asset. He is a uniter who can help break the gridlock that so divides our country. Even the people who won't vote for him in the general election because he is an African-American can eventually be won over to his side. 
 Senator Obama is a great communicator who can, as president, help win back the prestige our nation lost around the world during the past seven years. 
 Like a young John F. Kennedy in 1960, Barack Obama will appeal to everyone's better nature.
 Paul L. Whiteley Sr. Louisville, Ky., Dec. 24, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Frank Rich's assertion that our electorate values ''change'' over ''experience'' raises so many questions. 
 For starters, exactly what is to be changed and to what are we changing? Selling change without defining a new desired state is a bit like selling snake oil. It may change things, but will it actually fix or improve anything?
 Shifting the focus from experience to change is a very useful strategy for Senator Barack Obama. Were one to closely examine his record, one would find a pattern of absences that should make any American concerned. 
 In his case, experience matters all too much. 
 Andrea Economos Scarsdale, N.Y., Dec. 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); FRANK RICH (88%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (68%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



692 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Laura Robbins, Jacob Regenstreif

 BODY:
Laura Elise Robbins, a daughter of Janet Robbins and Dr. Barry Robbins of Menlo Park, Calif., was married on Saturday to Jacob Anthony Regenstreif, the son of Marcia Silverman and Stephen Regenstreif of Washington. Rabbi H. David Teitelbaum officiated at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco. 
 The bride and bridegroom met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which they graduated, she magna cum laude and he summa cum laude. 
 The bride, 29, is keeping her name. She is a law clerk in Memphis for Judge Julia Smith Gibbons of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The bride's law degree is from Stanford. She was a Fulbright scholar in Seville, Spain, studying the history of Spanish colonialism in California. 
 Her father is in private practice with Valley Radiologists, which has offices in the Bay Area. 
 The bridegroom, also 29, is an associate at the law firm Latham & Watkins in Los Angeles. He received a master's degree in science from the London School of Economics. His law degree is from Harvard. 
 His mother, who works in Washington, is the chief executive of Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide. His father is the director of the retirees division of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees in Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); LAWYERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); APPEALS COURTS (55%)

COMPANY: LATHAM & WATKINS LLP (84%); OGILVY PUBLIC RELATIONS WORLDWIDE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (55%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (55%)

PERSON: JULIA S GIBBONS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (77%) UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



693 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Two Steps Greener, One Back

BYLINE: By NORMAN MAYERSOHN

 BODY:
IN normal times, designers and engineers gather in studios and conference rooms to set the course for how cars will look and function. In 2007, though, the decisions with the greatest effect may have been those made inside courtrooms and government agencies. 
 The game changers with the most profound influence were environmental measures, which at long last were officially recognized to include fuel economy, and inevitably, the matter of carbon dioxide. The issue rode a tide of public opinion that had been shifting for some time, but gelled with the surprise success of ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' the film that made Al Gore's eat-your-peas lecture tour digestible. When the documentary won an Oscar in February, our once-stiff ex-vice president was anointed as the Bono of global climate concerns. 
 In April, the United States Supreme Court decided that the hot potato of greenhouse-gas regulation could no longer be handed around, ruling that the E.P.A. had the authority and duty to control carbon dioxide as a tailpipe pollutant. 
 Meanwhile, regulations written in 2004 by California's Air Resources Board to limit greenhouse gases (and adopted by more than a dozen other states) were pushed to the front burner. In October, California sued the E.P.A., demanding action on the waiver needed to enact the rules. 
 Al Gore and a United Nationsclimate change committee won the Nobel Peace Prize for their work, adding to the visibility of the issue. Momentum for the California rules seemed to be increasing with a United States District Court judge's rejection in December of an auto-industry motion challenging California's authority.
 As the year ended, environmentalists were encouraged by passage of the 35-mile-a-gallon fuel-economy standard by Congress, the first CAFE increases in three decades. But on the same day that President Bush signed the bill, the E.P.A. rejected California's waiver request, the first time the agency had ever done so. The courtroom battles will continue in '08: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has said the state would fight to overturn the decision. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WON: Al Gore and Oscar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL BUCK/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); JUDGES (72%); ENERGY REGULATION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%)

PERSON: AL GORE (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%); BONO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



694 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Seeks a Modern Way to Determine Who Is Poor in the City

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration, frustrated by the federal government's Great Society method of determining who is poor, is developing its own measure, which city officials say will offer a more modern and accurate picture of poverty.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg wants to adopt the new measure in part so he can better assess whether the tens of millions of dollars the city plans to spend on new anti-poverty programs will improve poor people's standard of living.
 But officials also hope the new measure will set off a nationwide re-examination of the current federal standard, and prompt other cities and states to adopt the city's method. 
 The 42-year-old federal poverty standard, which is pegged to the annual cost of buying basic groceries, is widely viewed as outdated and off-target. The city's formula would take into account the money families must spend annually on necessities including rent, utilities and child care. But it would also factor in the value of financial assistance received, like housing vouchers or food stamps.
 The city's efforts are already attracting attention. ''There is widespread dissatisfaction with the current standard,'' said Jack Tweedie, the director of the children and families program at the National Conference of State Legislators, which provides research to state legislators and policy makers.
 ''Because it is New York City adopting it, it could be a big step forward,'' he said. ''As it starts generating reports and data, others will be interested and you will get more momentum.''
 The politics of determining a poverty level are intense because the number largely determines eligibility for numerous federal entitlement programs. And, perhaps as important, it is used by people across the political spectrum as they debate how well this nation cares for its less fortunate.
 Of course, New York City's adoption of a new calculus, which skeptics predict is certain to conclude that there are more poor here than previously counted, could be met with opposition from other areas around the country, like rural states, especially if the city uses the new measure to argue that it deserves more federal aid. 
 But city officials say their efforts are driven by Mayor Bloomberg's second-term pledge to reduce poverty. 
 About a year ago, the mayor announced that the city would put $150 million in public and private money toward new antipoverty programs. At a press conference marking the anniversary of that effort last week, Mr. Bloomberg announced that 31 programs were up and running, and that a dozen more would be started in the next months.
 In developing the new programs, however, the city discovered a serious obstacle: the federal poverty standard was all but useless in assessing whether the efforts were having an effect. This was especially frustrating for the mayor, whose business background and Harvard M.B.A. have conditioned him to look for measurable results.
 So the city began drafting a new measure, based on research done a decade ago by the National Academy of Sciences. Dozens of respected poverty researchers in the nation have been asked to weigh in as well.
 For years the Census Bureau has published several alternative measures of poverty, at least one of which is based on National Academy of Sciences data. However, poverty specialists say, that measure is of little use to cities or states because it only generates national data.
 Mr. Bloomberg is seeking a balanced approach in devising New York's formula, which will be rolled out this summer. 
 The federal method of calculating the income of poor people does not take into account the value of the extensive benefits that governments give out, like housing vouchers. But the city method will, offering an in-depth look at the assistance provided by New York, which has perhaps the most generous safety net in the nation.
 Upwards of 600,000 families in the city are in public housing or receive substantial rental assistance. Other aid that would be counted toward income includes food stamps, subsidized child care and cash that is returned to families through the earned income tax credit and other tax credits. These benefits can be worth thousands of dollars a year for each family, and if that were the only change made in the formula, the number of poor in New York would drop drastically.
 But New York is also looking to establish a more realistic picture of how much money is needed to live here. 
 The current federal poverty threshold was developed in the 1960s by Mollie Orshansky, an economist with the Social Security Administration, who based her number on a 1955 Department of Agriculture study that said low-income Americans spent about a third of their after-tax money on food. If a family had an annual income equal to three times the annual cost of basic groceries, Ms. Orshansky reasoned, they were not poor. If they fell below that income threshold, they were.
 Obviously, that formula was developed in a very different America. Yet Mollie's Measure, as it is known in poverty circles, is still pegged to an annual grocery bill, adjusted for little more than price increases over time. The current poverty threshold for a family of four (two adults and two children) is a little under $21,000. In its new formula, the city would set its poverty threshold at about 80 percent of the median amount spent by American families on essential goods, which would include food, rent, clothing, utilities, and a little extra. Costs would be adjusted to reflect New York prices.
 Though city officials insist they are approaching this undertaking without bias, it is almost impossible to separate the process from politics. 
 Douglas J. Besharov, a scholar with the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, is watching the New York experiment intently and not without some cynicism that the city will come up with a far too generous formula. ''It is highly likely they will come up with a higher poverty rate,'' he said. ''It is perfectly safe politically in New York and it certainly is a good P.R. device for the mayor who wants to be a poverty crusader.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said last week that 31 antipoverty programs were up and running and dozens more were to come. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CITIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

COMPANY: SPECTRUM ASA (65%)

TICKER: SPU (OSL) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541360 GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYING & MAPPING SERVICES (65%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (65%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (65%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



695 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Attacks Fall 60 Percent, Petraeus Says

BYLINE: By STEPHEN FARRELL and SOLOMON MOORE

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
The top American military commander in Iraq said Saturday that violent attacks in the country had fallen by 60 percent since June, but cautioned that security gains were ''tenuous'' and ''fragile,'' requiring political and economic progress to cement them.
 The commander, Gen. David H. Petraeus, said the ''principal threat'' to security remained Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the homegrown insurgent group that American intelligence officials say is foreign led. 
 Speaking to reporters in an end-of-year briefing at the American Embassy in Baghdad, General Petraeus said that coalition-force casualties were down ''substantially,'' and that civilian casualties had fallen ''dramatically.'' 
 ''The level of attacks for about the last 11 weeks or so has been one not seen consistently since the late spring and summer of 2005,'' he said. ''The number of high-profile attacks, that is car bombs, suicide car bombs and suicide vest attacks, is also down, also roughly 60 percent'' since their height in March.
 During his 100-minute briefing, General Petraeus used a series of charts showing trends in overall weekly and monthly attacks, car and suicide bombs, weapons-cache finds and Iraqi civilian deaths.
 Although the data showed a sharp fall in civilian deaths from their peak between mid-2006 and mid-2007, the rate of decline appeared to level off in the past two months.
 The figures were based on American military statistics, but included some joint Iraqi-coalition data.
 However, he conceded that while attacks were down in the rest of the country, they had not fallen in the northern province of Nineveh, which includes Mosul, Iraq's third-largest city, with a population of 1.7 million.
 He said that Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia remained active in northern Iraq, where it was pushed after offensive operations in Baghdad and Anbar Province, and that the rate of attacks in Nineveh ''has just been variable and probably slightly up.''
 One reason for the continuing violence, he said, was that the area remained ''very important'' to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia because it is crossed by the routes into Iraq from Syria and Turkey.
 Also on Saturday, Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, flew to Britain for unspecified medical treatment. Yassin Majeed, a senior aide to Mr. Maliki, said only that the visit was for ''routine'' tests.
 Iraqiya, the state television channel, showed Mr. Maliki boarding a jet at Baghdad International Airport. ''Some time ago I tried to carry out these tests to be sure about some health matters,'' he told reporters. ''Now I have the chance.''
 Gen. Abdul Kareem Khalaf, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry, told reporters in a separate briefing that 75 percent of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia's networks and safe havens had been destroyed. He said that 18,000 people had been killed by violence so far in 2007, and that insurgent attacks had declined from 25 a day in February in Baghdad to as few as one during some days in December.
 The general did not elaborate on the methodology used to determine any of the statistics he reported to the news media.
 General Khalaf said the turning point was the rise of the so-called Sunni Awakening Councils in Anbar Province, the insurgents' former stronghold. He said that once the tribal groups turned against the militants there, the Interior Ministry was able to focus on Baghdad. The general acknowledged, however, that Diyala Province had remained difficult to control because of continuing insurgent attacks.
 ''That's the coming fight,'' he said of Diyala and other troublesome areas north of Baghdad.
 General Petraeus acknowledged that while Iraq had been brought back from ''the brink of a civil war'' in 2007, Iraqi and American commanders ''clearly have more work to do in certain areas in the weeks and months ahead.''
 General Petraeus identified numerous reasons for the fall in violence, namely the increase in American troops and the decision to move them to smaller bases where they are ''living among those we are trying to protect.'' He cited aggressive offensive operations, using a mixture of conventional and special forces, to focus on the insurgents' strongholds and networks.
 He also credited the Iraqis' own ''surge'' of more than 100,000 soldiers and police officers, the rejection of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia by the Sunni awakening movement in former insurgent strongholds, and the cease-fire by the Mahdi Army, a Shiite militia loyal to the cleric Moktada al-Sadr, although he said some ''splinter elements'' continued to operate.
 The general said outside factors included the decisions by some countries to curb the flow of foreign fighters into Iraq, singling out Syria.
 Regarding Iran, he noted a fall in attacks using what he described as Iranian-provided ''signature weapons'': RPG 29 rocket-propelled grenades, the sophisticated roadside bombs known as explosively formed penetrators, large-caliber rockets and portable air-defense systems.
 He said he hoped Iran ''will live up to the promises its senior leaders made to Iraq's senior leaders'' to stop what the Americans claim are the training, financing, arming and directing of ''special groups'' within Shiite militias that have attacked coalition forces.
 Iran has consistently denied helping militias attack coalition forces in Iraq.
 For his part, General Khalaf said that Iraq's Interior Ministry, which he conceded had been infiltrated by Shiite militias in the past, was gradually integrating more Sunni Arabs into its ranks and weeding out officers believed to have dubious allegiances.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TRENDS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); SUICIDE (67%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (90%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



696 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Attacks Fall 60 Percent, Petraeus Says

BYLINE: By STEPHEN FARRELL and SOLOMON MOORE

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
The top American military commander in Iraq said Saturday that violent attacks in the country had fallen by 60 percent since June, but cautioned that security gains were ''tenuous'' and ''fragile,'' requiring political and economic progress to cement them.
 The commander, Gen. David H. Petraeus, said the ''principal threat'' to security remained Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the homegrown insurgent group that American intelligence officials say is foreign led. 
 Speaking to reporters in an end-of-year briefing at the American Embassy in Baghdad, General Petraeus said that coalition-force casualties were down ''substantially,'' and that civilian casualties had fallen ''dramatically.'' 
 ''The level of attacks for about the last 11 weeks or so has been one not seen consistently since the late spring and summer of 2005,'' he said. ''The number of high-profile attacks, that is car bombs, suicide car bombs and suicide vest attacks, is also down, also roughly 60 percent'' since their height in March.
 During his 100-minute briefing, General Petraeus used a series of charts showing trends in overall weekly and monthly attacks, car and suicide bombs, weapons-cache finds and Iraqi civilian deaths.
 Although the data showed a sharp fall in civilian deaths from their peak between mid-2006 and mid-2007, the rate of decline appeared to level off in the past two months.
 The figures were based on American military statistics, but included some joint Iraqi-coalition data.
 However, he conceded that while attacks were down in the rest of the country, they had not fallen in the northern province of Nineveh, which includes Mosul, Iraq's third-largest city, with a population of 1.7 million.
 He said that Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia remained active in northern Iraq, where it was pushed after offensive operations in Baghdad and Anbar Province, and that the rate of attacks in Nineveh ''has just been variable and probably slightly up.''
 One reason for the continuing violence, he said, was that the area remained ''very important'' to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia because it is crossed by the routes into Iraq from Syria and Turkey.
 Also on Saturday, Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, flew to Britain for unspecified medical treatment. Yassin Majeed, a senior aide to Mr. Maliki, said only that the visit was for ''routine'' tests.
 Iraqiya, the state television channel, showed Mr. Maliki boarding a jet at Baghdad International Airport. ''Some time ago I tried to carry out these tests to be sure about some health matters,'' he told reporters. ''Now I have the chance.''
 Gen. Abdul Kareem Khalaf, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry, told reporters in a separate briefing that 75 percent of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia's networks and safe havens had been destroyed. He said that 18,000 people had been killed by violence so far in 2007, and that insurgent attacks had declined from 25 a day in February in Baghdad to as few as one during some days in December.
 The general did not elaborate on the methodology used to determine any of the statistics he reported to the news media.
 General Khalaf said the turning point was the rise of the so-called Sunni Awakening Councils in Anbar Province, the insurgents' former stronghold. He said that once the tribal groups turned against the militants there, the Interior Ministry was able to focus on Baghdad. The general acknowledged, however, that Diyala Province had remained difficult to control because of continuing insurgent attacks.
 ''That's the coming fight,'' he said of Diyala and other troublesome areas north of Baghdad.
 General Petraeus acknowledged that while Iraq had been brought back from ''the brink of a civil war'' in 2007, Iraqi and American commanders ''clearly have more work to do in certain areas in the weeks and months ahead.''
 General Petraeus identified numerous reasons for the fall in violence, namely the increase in American troops and the decision to move them to smaller bases where they are ''living among those we are trying to protect.'' He cited aggressive offensive operations, using a mixture of conventional and special forces, to focus on the insurgents' strongholds and networks.
 He also credited the Iraqis' own ''surge'' of more than 100,000 soldiers and police officers, the rejection of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia by the Sunni awakening movement in former insurgent strongholds, and the cease-fire by the Mahdi Army, a Shiite militia loyal to the cleric Moktada al-Sadr, although he said some ''splinter elements'' continued to operate.
 The general said outside factors included the decisions by some countries to curb the flow of foreign fighters into Iraq, singling out Syria.
 Regarding Iran, he noted a fall in attacks using what he described as Iranian-provided ''signature weapons'': RPG 29 rocket-propelled grenades, the sophisticated roadside bombs known as explosively formed penetrators, large-caliber rockets and portable air-defense systems.
 He said he hoped Iran ''will live up to the promises its senior leaders made to Iraq's senior leaders'' to stop what the Americans claim are the training, financing, arming and directing of ''special groups'' within Shiite militias that have attacked coalition forces.
 Iran has consistently denied helping militias attack coalition forces in Iraq.
 For his part, General Khalaf said that Iraq's Interior Ministry, which he conceded had been infiltrated by Shiite militias in the past, was gradually integrating more Sunni Arabs into its ranks and weeding out officers believed to have dubious allegiances.
 Bin Laden Criticizes Councils
 In an audiotape released Saturday, Osama bin Laden urged Iraq's Sunni Arabs not to join the Awakening Councils.
 ''Our duty is to foil these dangerous schemes, which try to prevent the establishment of an Islamic state in Iraq, which would be a wall of resistance against American schemes to divide Iraq,'' Mr. bin Laden said in the 56-minute tape, which was posted on a militant Web site used by Al Qaeda's media arm, The Associated Press said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TRENDS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); SUICIDE (67%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (90%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2007



697 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Heil Woodrow!

BYLINE: By DAVID OSHINSKY. 
David Oshinsky, who holds the Jack S. Blanton chair in history at the University of Texas, is the author of ''A Conspiracy So Immense: The World of Joe McCarthy.''

 BODY:
LIBERAL FASCISM 
 The Secret History of the American Left From Mussolini to the Politics of Meaning.
 By Jonah Goldberg. 
 487 pp. Doubleday. $27.95. 
 Coming of age in the 1960s, I heard the word ''fascist'' all the time. College presidents were fascists, Vietnam War supporters were fascists, policemen who tangled with protesters were fascists, on and on. To some, the word smacked of Hitler and genocide. To others, it meant the oppression of the masses by the privileged few. But one point was crystal clear: the word belonged to those on the political left. It was their verbal weapon, and they used it every chance they got.
 Forty years have passed and not much has changed, complains Jonah Goldberg, a conservative columnist and contributing editor for National Review. Leftists still drop the ''f word'' to taint their opponents, be they global warming skeptics or members of the Moral Majority. The sad result, Goldberg says, is that Americans have come to equate fascism with right-wing political movements in the United States when, in fact, the reverse is true. To his mind, it is liberalism, not conservatism, that embraces what he claims is the fascist ideal of perfecting society through a powerful state run by omniscient leaders. And it is liberals, not conservatives, who see government coercion as the key to getting things done. 
 ''Liberal Fascism'' is less an expose of left-wing hypocrisy than a chance to exact political revenge. Yet the title of his book aside, what distinguishes Goldberg from the Sean Hannitys and Michael Savages is a witty intelligence that deals in ideas as well as insults -- no mean feat in the nasty world of the culture wars.
 According to Goldberg, fascism in America predated the regimes of Mussolini and Hitler. He believes that Woodrow Wilson turned the United States into a ''fascist country, albeit temporarily'' during World War I. Americans in 1917 were reluctant to join the slaughter in Europe. Their nation hadn't been attacked; there was no defining event -- a Fort Sumter or Pearl Harbor -- to rally public support. So Wilson formed the country's first propaganda ministry, the Committee on Public Information, to teach people what they were up against. The devil became German militarism -- the merciless Hun -- and Americans were encouraged to lash out at those of German ancestry inside the United States. Vigilante groups arose to mete out justice and spy on fellow citizens. Congress passed draconian laws banning ''abusive'' and ''disloyal'' language against the government and its officials. The Post Office revoked the mailing privileges of hundreds of antiwar publications, effectively shutting them down. Rarely if ever in American history has dissent been so effectively stifled.
 At the same time, Wilson formed numerous boards to regulate everything from the production of artillery pieces to the price of a lamb chop. The result, Goldberg argues, was the birth of a socialist dictatorship that ''whipped, cajoled and seduced American industry into the loving embrace of the state.'' Though partly dismantled after the war, this model, we are told, became the blueprint for Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal. 
 Goldberg is less convincing here because he can't get a handle on Roosevelt's admittedly elusive personality. He treats Wilson as a serious thinker, rigidly focused on his goals, but portrays Roosevelt as a classic dilettante, shallow and detached. For Goldberg, even the president's greatest skill -- his ability to communicate with the masses -- was negated by his failure to chart a steady course and stick to it. One is left to ponder how the outlines of America's modern welfare state emerged from such a lazy, superficial mind.
 In attempting to link Roosevelt to the fascism that enveloped Europe in these years, Goldberg highlights examples like the Civilian Conservation Corps, which offered a paycheck and military discipline to unemployed young men from the cities, and the National Recovery Administration, which was intended to spur industrial production through centralized planning. But it's absurd to view the C.C.C. as the American version of Hitler Youth, and the N.R.A. -- heavy on slogans, light on coercion -- was so ineffective that Roosevelt heaved a sigh of relief when it was declared unconstitutional in 1935. Oddly, Goldberg has less to say about issues more likely to bolster his case, like the enormous growth of executive power under Roosevelt and his ill-fated attempt to ''pack'' the United States Supreme Court.
 Goldberg acknowledges that Wilson and Roosevelt faced legitimate national emergencies -- a world war and an economic collapse. But subsequent presidents have invented false crises to roil the masses, he claims, and John F. Kennedy did it best. ''It is not a joyful thing to impugn an American hero and icon with the label fascist,'' Goldberg writes, but how else does one explain his popularity? The answer lies not in Kennedy's record, which Goldberg assures us was slim, but rather in his cold-war brinkmanship, his ''adrenaline-soaked'' appeals to national service and martial values, and, of course, the Nazi-like cult of personality that he buffed to gleaming perfection. 
 Is something missing here? Goldberg races from Wilson to Roosevelt to Kennedy and on to Bill Clinton with barely a glance at what happened in between. The reason is simple: for Goldberg, fascism is strictly a Democratic disease. This allows him to dispose of the politics of the 1920s in a single sentence. ''After the Great War,'' he writes, ''the country slowly regained its sanity.'' What Goldberg may not know -- or is afraid to tell us -- is that the 1920s were anything but sane. This was the decade, after all, that contained the largest state-sponsored social experiment in the nation's history -- Prohibition -- and it lasted through three Republican administrations before Franklin Roosevelt ended it in 1933. The 1920s also saw the explosive spread of the Ku Klux Klan in the Republican Midwest, a virtual halt to legal immigration under the repressive National Origins Act and an angry grass-roots backlash against the teaching of evolution in public schools.
 Goldberg briefly enters the Eisenhower 1950s to tease liberals for whining about the supposedly trivial impact of McCarthyism. ''A few Hollywood writers who'd supported Stalin and then lied about it lost their jobs,'' he says. What's the big deal? For the Reagan 1980s there is near-silence -- hardly a word. I had entertained the slim hope that Goldberg might consider the ''fascist'' cult of personality surrounding Reagan's 1984 ''Morning in America'' hokum (''Prouder, Stronger, Better''). But, alas, such scrutiny is reserved only for the Clinton presidential campaign of 1992, with its ''Riefenstahlesque film of a teenage Bill Clinton shaking hands with President Kennedy.'' Indeed, even George W. Bush's spectacularly staged landing on an aircraft carrier in full battle regalia to declare ''mission accomplished'' in Iraq escapes notice here. It doesn't take a village for Goldberg to play the fascist card; a single Democrat will do.
 The final chapters of ''Liberal Fascism'' are a rant, often deliciously amusing, against America's numerous liberal-fascist elites. In unexciting times, when there are nocalamities to be addressed, liberals push a more robust social agenda, Goldberg claims, using the state and the friendly news media to tar opponents of, say, affirmative action or same-sex marriage as bigots, fanatics and fools. The task facing conservatives, he adds, is to hold liberals accountable for these jackboot tactics. ''For at some point,'' Goldberg writes, ''it is necessary to throw down the gauntlet, to draw a line in the sand, to set a boundary, to cry at long last, 'Enough is enough.'''
 These are familiar words, eerily reminiscent of the ''adrelaline-soaked'' cliches of John F. Kennedy as he railed against Soviet expansion around the globe. But I dare not call them fascist. That would be unfair. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the Civilian Conservation Corps work on road signs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERBERT GEHR/TIME LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); HISTORY (78%); ESPIONAGE (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); WORLD WAR I (77%); WRITERS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%)

TITLE: Liberal Fascism (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009



698 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Hipsters Leap to Club-Party Hopscotch

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
It's been more than three months since Melissa Maino and Jonathan Murray dressed up in gold lame pants with matching boots (him) and a sailor hat and bubble dress (her) for the final Misshapes party. And it's been about two months since they costumed themselves in green body paint (her) and a silver spacesuit (him) for what turned out to be the last Halloween blowout of a long-running series with an unpublishable name.
 Both Misshapes, held every Saturday for five years, and the other party, held on the eve of major holidays for nearly eight years, were regular destinations for young downtown clubgoers. Their unexpected back-to-back demise left the skinny-jeans-and-Converse set -- along with the promoters who cater to them -- asking the same question: What's next?
 ''It's been rough,'' Ms. Maino, 24, said. That's especially true Monday night, one of the biggest clubbing nights of the year, when the former holiday-eve party was a reliable place to celebrate in the most downtown-decadent way possible. Going there ''was what I depended on for New Year's Eve,'' Ms. Maino said, adding that its sudden end ''was definitely heartbreaking.'' 
 But on the weekend before Christmas she and Mr. Murray, 28, who live together in Manhattan and are corporate suit-wearers by day, rallied and coordinated their outfits once again to hit two of the newest regular parties. On that Friday, they were at Robot Rock at Le Royale, a West Village club open just three weeks (in the space that was formerly Luke & Leroy, once home to Misshapes) to hear Kele Okereke, the singer from the British band Bloc Party, D.J. On Sunday they stopped by Beauty Bar, on East 14th Street, where the D.J. and promoter who goes by the name Michael T., a founder of the holiday eve series, has recently helped start the retro-glam Re-make/Re-model party. For the time being it will also be held only before holidays.
 ''It's just getting harder and harder to do weekly parties, unfortunately, at least for me,'' Michael T. said, adding that the right site is difficult to find. ''In a city just inundated with bottle service and things of that nature, that's not me, and also ultra-hip Brooklyn 'I don't bathe and I have a beard' is not me.''
 In 2000 he was co-founder of the holiday eve series as a way to merge disparate Manhattan scenes -- glam, rock, goth, indie, gay, straight -- with his partners: Georgie Seville, a veteran promoter; Johnny Yerington (a k a Johnny T.), an East Village bar owner and musician; and the D.J. Justine Delaney, better known as Justine D. What began as a part-time endeavor wound up as a regular roving bacchanal, famous for its nude go-go dancers, wildly costumed crowd and dance floor debauchery. (The party's original home, the Chelsea club Mother, closed unexpectedly after their inaugural event there; the founders moved it around to clubs like the Roxy, Avalon and Rebel.)
 A rarity on the club scene, the holiday-eve party was also a destination for up-and-coming bands, indie favorites like Bloc Party, the Rapture, the Faint and !!! before they broke, and the Cramps and the New York Dolls on the cusp of their comeback tours. During its long run the party managed to retain a cult audience; more than 2,000 people came to the Halloween event, Michael T. said. Last year it was even the subject of a yet-to-be-released documentary, which the crew hoped would propel it to bigger projects, like an album. Despite its longevity, the series was never a moneymaker. ''We did it as a labor of love,'' Ms. Delaney said. 
 But the foursome's different managerial styles caused near-constant friction. ''We've had years where we were like cats and dogs, at each other's throats,'' Mr. Yerington said, adding that the group had decided to call it quits in 2008, after eight years. Then on Halloween Michael T. and Mr. Yerington had a fight about an unrelated party that both had been involved in. 
 Michael T. characterized it as the final straw. ''I had an epiphany,'' he said. ''I was just like, do I want to continue to deal with this type of relationship in my life? No, I don't.'' He decided to disband the group immediately, though not without some regret. The end of that party, he said wistfully, ''was kind of like somebody in your family passing away.'' 
 But his partners were sanguine. ''I think it was time,'' Ms. Delaney said. It helps that they are all busy with new ventures. As the creative director of Studio B, Ms. Delaney is overseeing parties like Monday's New Year's Eve event there, with Slick Rick and Moby. Mr. Seville works with the Lower East Side club the Annex and at a club in Miami, Studio A, and runs a recording studio. Mr. Yerington is expanding into restaurants. And Michael T. is a co-host of a New Year's Eve party on Monday at Don Hill's in the South Village, with promoters of another downtown series, Trash. The Brooklyn band A Place to Bury Strangers will perform, and there will be burlesque; Mr. Murray and Ms. Maino are already on board for Don Hill's, they said when they checked out Le Royale.
 They gave Le Royale high marks for being not too self-consciously posey, despite the presence of a photo blogger. ''The party should be about having fun, not looking like you're having fun,'' Ms. Maino said.
 In Le Royale's opening weeks, the ground floor lounge area, which has a V.I.P. section, was mostly empty, while the upper level dance floor was mostly packed. Fashion was less outre than at Misshapes. One man wore a sweater around his shoulders, apparently without irony.
 ''There's two dramatically opposed scenes,'' said Thomas Dunkley, a booker for Le Royale and an owner of GBH, a decade-old promotions company. ''The real commercial scene,'' typified by the big-box clubs of West Chelsea, ''and the hipster scene.''
 ''Where it gets interesting,'' he said, ''is where the two merge together. We've always tried to be in that place.'' 
 His partner, Alejandro Torio, categorized their crowd as music fans and ''hipsters who have graduated.'' To that end they are booking D.J.'s from indie it-bands like Peter Bjorn and John, and the Raveonettes, playing host to rock bands and giving after-parties. 
 Bottle service (buying an expensive bottle to get a table) is not a main focus, and though there is a coverage charge -- around $20 -- it seems easy to get around it by being on the right list or dropping the right name. (''Oh, you're a friend of the bartender?'' a doorman said to a guest who was trying to get in free. ''O.K.'') 
 The comparatively unpretentious endeavor has the support of the club's new owner, Dave Baxley, a nightlife veteran who used to run the 1990s D.J. haven Centro-Fly and whose taste in bars runs to the Subway Inn on the Upper East Side. ''Everything is a little too clean in New York,'' he said. ''I feel like this is a good club for a recession.''
 He added, ''It's the opposite of 1 Oak,'' referring to another new downtown club backed by celebrity- and model-friendly promoters. ''We are trying to have a sense of humor.''
 But will it be the next Misshapes? When that hipster Mecca ended in September, a Tuesday party called Six Six Sick at the Chinatown bar Happy Ending emerged as a contender; Jackson Polis, a Misshapes D.J., had his birthday party there, and the promoters, three women known for their matching risque outfits, won a nightlife award from Paper magazine. The downtown nightlife calendar also includes the Factory-esque 205 club on Mondays for karaoke (or Butter, for the celebrity-hungry); Home Sweet Home for a goth night on Wednesdays; Hiro Ballroom (promoted by the GBH crew) on Thursdays; and Studio B and the Annex on Fridays. By general consensus, Saturdays are still up for grabs.
 But perhaps not for long. Next month Michael T. plans to restart Rated X, a particularly louche party with a late-night ''hot body'' contest, at Don Hill's. Still, it won't be like his signature party. ''Every artist has their peak time, and then you make that mark,'' he said. ''Right now, I'm not at that peak.'' 
 Not that he's wall-flowering. ''I'm a survivor,'' he said. ''It's going to be me, Cher, and the cockroaches.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Black and white was the theme at a former holiday-eve party on Memorial Day 2006. That party has now been discontinued. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E11)
Melissa Maino and Jonathan Murray at Le Royale, a new club in the West Village on Seventh Avenue South and Leroy Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE FORNABAIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E11)
 Michael T., an impresario, left center, at Beauty Bar. Now parties there and elsewhere are drawing the skinny-jeans-and-Converse set, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAHAV SEGEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); HALLOWEEN (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); SPACE EXPLORATION (71%); POP & ROCK (68%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007



699 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITYWIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: For Helper of Immigrants, A Tale of Loss and Destiny

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
It was August when Ruth Ford realized her resistance was no match for a nun's persistence. For weeks, Sister Mary Burns had been after her to take over the Maura Clarke-Ita Ford Center in Brooklyn, where immigrant women learn English, finish high school and develop job skills. Ms. Ford was looking for a job in journalism, but Sister Mary wanted her to lead the center she had founded in 1993.
 ''After a while you stop saying no because it gets you nowhere,'' Ms. Ford admitted. ''You just say yes.''
 Persistence of memory was just as responsible for her decision. The center is named after her aunt, Sister Ita C. Ford, and Sister Maura Clarke, two Maryknoll missionaries from New York who were among four North American churchwomen raped, tortured and killed by soldiers in El Salvador on Dec. 2, 1980. The women had gone there to work with the poor. 
 Her arrival at the center was the latest stop on a complicated personal journey, considering that her aunt had become an icon whose smiling face and pixie haircut was now portrayed in everything from posters to devotional cards. Granted, her family link to Ita would help raise not only the center's profile, but also much-needed funds for its programs. But it also made her feel a little uncomfortable, as on the September day when she was welcomed by teachers and students with hugs and prayers.
 ''They prayed over me,'' Ms. Ford recalled. ''I was so flabbergasted, I thought I was going to break into tears. It was very overwhelming. I'm related to Ita by blood and fate. I could be anybody. There is respect for me that I have not earned. Yet.''
 Sister Mary had no such reservations.
 ''I sometimes wonder if I was waiting for something like this to happen,'' she said. ''It seems so right. It has come full circle.'' 
 For Ms. Ford, 41, it is not easy living up to the memory of her aunt and the others who made such enormous sacrifices. 
 ''Sometimes it is hard to relate to Ita as this iconographic figure,'' she said. ''You don't want to feel like you have this saintly scold hanging over your head.''
 So she keeps nearby a photo of Ita, taken in Chile in 1973, her laughing heartily. Often she wonders what Ita would have done had she lived. She reminds herself that sometimes one has to savor the small victories. In that, she is guided by the words of Archbishop Oscar Romero, who was assassinated while celebrating Mass in San Salvador a few months before the churchwomen were killed.
 ''He said you can never do everything,'' she said, paraphrasing him. ''Instead you should do the small things you do well, because that is the difference between the master builder and the worker. We are prophets of a future that is not our own.''
 The future is a big thing at the center, where several hundred women go each year for classes. Some of them also work in cooperatives that sew clothes for dance companies or bake cookies for parochial schools. 
 Most of the women (and a handful of men) arrive eager to learn English so they can help their children with their homework. Many of them are from Mexico, where the economy has long prompted parents to head north to take menial jobs in restaurants and factories with the hope that their children will escape that fate.
 Teaching English, it turns out, is not such a small thing after all.
 ''To me, they are tremendously motivated,'' said Sister Eileen Trainor, the center's associate director for education. ''They are devoted to their children, and they will do anything for them.''
 Sister Eileen, whose father lived nearby when he arrived in Brooklyn from Ireland, bemoaned the current political debate on immigration that casts the area's newcomers as an economic and security threat to the country. The center, she said, does not ask whether someone is here legally. 
 ''Immigrants have always been around,'' said Josefina Carbarin, who obtained her high school equivalency diploma at the center and now plans to go to college. ''Since ancient times human beings have looked for a better place to live.''
 She found it in Brooklyn, where she has lived since leaving Mexico three years ago. Her husband is a cook at a hamburger place. She cleans houses on Long Island. One of her five children is a champion at chess and in class.
 ''No. 1!'' she said in English, which she learned at the center. ''In school, No. 1. He got 4.0.''
 These accomplishments have not gone unnoticed by her sister-in-law, Cristina Sanchez, who followed her to Brooklyn two years ago. Her husband got a job delivering burgers. She works weekends as a waitress at a Mexican restaurant. She comes to the center to learn English. Though she is still getting used to her adopted tongue, she has learned to use it at the local public school her sons, Jorge and Armando, attend.
 Last year she was unhappy with how her eldest son, Armando, was doing in first grade, where he had been placed in a bilingual class.
 ''But he learned nothing,'' Ms. Sanchez said. ''In English or Spanish. So I decided to change him into regular classes. The teacher said he would have to repeat first grade, but I promised him I would help him.''
 Though she herself was learning English, she encouraged the child. Sister Eileen helped him master his lessons, too, she said.
 ''By May the teacher said he had learned a lot,'' she said, smiling. ''He turned around!''
 Armando is in second grade, which might not seem like a big deal. But don't tell that to his mother.
 ''He and Jorge know so much more than I do now,'' she said. ''I keep telling them to keep on learning so they can teach me.''
 Such comments are typical of the parents, though Ms. Ford thinks the mothers sometimes sell themselves short. Some of them have talents they can use to earn a living and have some measure of control over their lives. She is trying to help one woman find studio space where she can make Mexican-style pottery. And she is searching for other dance companies to purchase clothing made by the sewing cooperative.
 Seeing the women and their children inch forward into unfamiliar territory gives Ms. Ford a sense of accomplishment, too. 
 ''When I am in my office, I'm applying for grants, and there is an air of panic about that,'' she said. ''But when I am around these women, it feels hopeful.''
 That is especially so in December, a month that starts with a painful anniversary, but ends with the promise of a new beginning. Before closing for the Christmas holidays, more than 100 students and relatives packed a classroom at the center, where they sang carols. In another room, tables were stacked with dolls, games and toy cars that were donated to the children. 
 There was a Nativity pageant, with Cristina Sanchez portraying Mary, kneeling and cradling a plastic baby Jesus. There were songs about angelic heralds and guiding stars. And there was the expectation that in a few more days, the Magi would grace even Menahan Street. 
 Ms. Ford stood to the side and took it all in. Not too far from her was a portrait of Aunt Ita, along with Maura Clarke, Jean Donovan and Dorothy Kazel, all of whom lived to work among the poor. Their smiles were frozen in time. 
 ''This is always an emotional month,'' Ms. Ford said. ''You would think after almost 30 years you would not react anymore. But you always do.''
 She recalled attending a memorial service on the 10th anniversary of the murders, where she saw portraits of the churchwomen held aloft on banners. 
 ''As a Catholic, I think I finally had a comprehension of the Resurrection,'' Ms. Ford said. ''So many people believed and still believe in what they did. When I saw those banners, those faces, it struck me. Of course they're not dead.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Maura Clarke-Ita Ford Center in Brooklyn draws several hundred women each year to learn English and other subjects. (pg.B1)
 Ruth Ford runs a center named after her aunt and another nun, who were killed in El Salvador. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BeATRICE DE GeA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); RELIGION (69%); TORTURE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHILE (71%); NORTH AMERICA (71%); EL SALVADOR (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007



700 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW 'WILLIAM KENTRIDGE: TAPESTRIES'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Shadowy Nomads, Writ in Warp and Woof

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
An exhibition of William Kentridge's tapestries now at the Philadelphia Museum of Art may be uneven, but that's not totally surprising.
 Mr. Kentridge, born in Johannesburg in 1955, has always tackled an immense and urgent subject: his country's anguish and inequity in the wake of apartheid. Yet he seems to lack some requisite sense of touch or engagement with the materials of art. Perhaps because he began as an actor, writer and set designer, he doesn't exhibit great feeling for the immediacy of the art object. 
 As a result his work is almost always best when presented at a remove, in translation or in motion. His charcoal drawings are never as effective on the wall as they are when mutating in his powerful animated films and videos. In moving images the charcoal becomes a tool that almost literally burrows through South African history and human consciousness. Similarly his drawings, objects, films and shadow figures can work brilliantly for the illusory magic of set design, as his imaginative staging of Mozart's ''Magic Flute'' proved recently at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. 
 ''William Kentridge: Tapestries'' clarifies this discrepancy, and even benefits from it. The collages on which these tapestries are based, along with related prints and bronze sculptures -- all looking fairly inert -- are in one gallery. In the other, much larger gallery are the 11 tapestries, completed since 2001, looking a lot livelier, even rather gorgeous, if not as completely alive as his films and video.
 The tapestries show large, dark silhouettes -- the latest incarnation of the shadow figures Mr. Kentridge has deployed for years -- against the patterns of old maps. That the tapestries improve greatly upon the collages is one of the show's revelations. 
 The tapestries were made by the Stephens Tapestry Studio in Johannesburg, in close consultation with Mr. Kentridge. Marguerite Stephens established the studio in 1963 in Swaziland as a carpet and curtain weaving business. She moved it two years later to Johannesburg to focus on her craft's artistic potential. According to the exhibition catalog the weavers use the French Gobelin high-warp technique, working from the bottom up on a vertical loom with the cartoon of the weaving behind it.
 You don't need to know all this to be impressed by these works, which tap into a long, glorious history and take full advantage of tapestry's capacities for intricacy, color and scale. 
 Ten are from Mr. Kentridge's ''Porter Series.'' Measuring as much as 11 feet high or wide, they show one or two figures carrying, or oddly fused with, objects. Of indefinite race, age and often gender, the porters have a Michelangelesque grandeur, even as their black-brown tonality suggests tar or earth. Contributing to their imposing stature are their backgrounds: maps from a world atlas published in 19th-century Europe, when its empires were the most expansive. 
 In the ''Puppet Drawings'' collages on which these tapestries are based, the porters are made from pieces of thick, seemingly torn dark paper hinged together with small, circular pins. As with puppets, their limbs appear moveable. 
 True to their name, the porters are moving stuff. They are nomads, refugees, asylum seekers or maybe even adventurers. They seem more industrious than driven, but mostly they are on the move, set in motion by forces beyond their control. They are universal, but you could locate them at any point on the maps, and they would become specific, displaced by this or that invasion, liberation, revolution, colonialism or economic crisis.
 As characters they range from the symbolic to the real and back again. Rushing across Germany, the Pylon Lady has legs that suggest a draftsman's compass. The figure marching across Central America is piled with ladders and tools that might belong to a gardener or carpenter. Asia Minor is being traversed by a man who has sprouted tree limbs.
 The 11th tapestry, ''Office Love,'' is the largest -- around 11 feet by 15 feet -- and easily the most beautiful. Its protagonists include a heavyset businessman with a typewriter for a head, who purposefully approaches three more or less feminine pieces of office furniture, the largest of which is a scribe's table that seems to hold a pair of scissors. Something is in the air. Maybe it is sexual tension; maybe it is simply progress. The writing machine is invading the scriptorium. Interestingly, typewriters started to become standardized in the 1890s, as Johannesburg was first being built. 
 Translating the collages into tapestries is a process of amplification, expansion and refinement. They are redrawn and further detailed in thread. Lines of red, yellow and blue, muted in the collages, become brighter. New lines are added too, giving the works a greater sense of flux, as if Mr. Kentridge were rethinking them. The maps become more legible, the edges of the torn paper more assertive. In awakening and giving life to Mr. Kentridge's images, the weaving process could almost be said to animate the collages, to give them a visual energy bordering on motion. 
 In his catalog essay Carlos Basualdo, the Philadelphia Museum's curator of contemporary art and the organizer of this exhibition, uses the term ''generic creativity.'' To my mind generic is a pejorative that implies something is routine, general and impersonal. It is exactly the term I would use to describe what's wrong with many of Mr. Kentridge's art objects. I would also suggest that as Mr. Kentridge's work moves further away from the specific travails of South Africa, as it does here, it becomes more generic. 
 But Mr. Basualdo translates generic differently, more positively, and arrives at a fresh and helpful point of view. He uses the phrase to describe how weaving transforms Mr. Kentridge's ideas by reinterpreting them through a human activity that is not attached to an individual creator, but is instead a ''generic creativity'' that can be expressed by anyone, in this case, trained in and attentive to the craft.
 That's a big idea. It makes sense given Mr. Kentridge's roots in the collaborative art of theater. And it underscores why the work from his own hand gains immeasurably when filtered through a second process, whether provided by a weaver or a video camera. In keeping with the themes of his best efforts, his art is subjected to a form of liberation.
 ''William Kentridge: Tapestries'' is on view through April 6 at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Benjamin Franklin Parkway at 26th Street; (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Norwege, Suede et Danemark (Porter With Chairs).'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRIVATE COLLECTION) (pg. E6)
Mr. Kentridge, working with Marguerite Stephens, who founded the studio where the tapestries were made. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN HODGKISS/WILLIAM KENTRIDGE STUDIO) (pg. E6)
''Espagne Ancienne (Porter With Dividers)'' (2005), a tapestry from William Kentridge's ''Porter Series.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIA RUMMA GALLERY, MILAN) (pg. E6)
 WILLIAM KENTRIDGE: TAPESTRIES ''Office Love,'' a 2001 tapestry by Mr. Kentridge, in this exhibition at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILADELPHIA MUSEUM OF ART) (pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (76%); ANIMATED FILMS (74%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (91%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); SWAZILAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007



701 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Radio's Challenge: Counting The Young

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
As radio moves away from an outdated system of audience measurement, it is facing the same problem that confronts other media: figuring out how many young people are listening or watching is maddeningly difficult.
 A long-awaited electronic measurement tool, the ''portable people meter,'' has produced sudden swings in ratings in tests, raising red flags for radio executives. After a test in October in New York, the radio measurement company Arbitron delayed the broader introduction of people meters by nine months. 
 Arbitron officials say that tallying the number of young listeners -- in particular the 18- to 34-year-old demographic group prized by advertisers -- has been a perpetual concern. The stakes are high for media companies and advertisers, and for the measurement companies themselves; last month, Arbitron warned its stockholders that earnings would be adversely affected by the people meter delay. 
 Ceril Shagrin, an executive vice president for corporate research at Univision Communications, a major Spanish-language broadcaster, found that the ratings for Radio La Kalle 105.9 FM in New York fell sharply when the people meters were tested in October. She expressed concerns about the reliability of the Arbitron sample.
 ''The Hispanic universe is younger, and our audience is therefore made up of more young people. When the sample doesn't reflect them, then our radio ratings aren't correct,'' Ms. Shagrin said.
 Lower ratings can translate into less advertising revenue. The television ratings company Nielsen Media Research has experienced the same sampling challenges.
 ''I think any survey research operation, no matter what they're doing, would say that young households are more difficult to recruit,'' said Paul Donato, chief research officer for Nielsen.
 Mr. Donato said young demographics were well represented by Nielsen's samples, and Arbitron said its data was improving. November data from the people meter, released on Dec. 7, showed some gains among younger people and minority groups.
 Still, Arbitron has work to do; on an average day in New York last month, 575 participants aged 18 to 34 provided data, far short of the company's goal of 919.
 Owen Charlebois, president for technology, research and development, said young people were less likely to participate automatically in a research study.
 ''We have to work harder to explain why it's important for them to take part,'' he said. ''In some ways, there are parallels with voting rates in the U.S.''
 Because it costs more for Arbitron to deploy electronic measurements, the sample size becomes smaller, but each member of the sample contributes more data, making the recruitment process that much more important.
 ''You really have to get people who you know are going to participate,'' said Brad Adgate, director for research at the media-buying agency Horizon Media. 
 Researchers often try to persuade hard-to-reach age groups to participate by paying them more. While Arbitron does not release specific information on incentives, it said it offers 18- to 24-year-olds two to three times as much as the average respondent. The company will increase the age for incentives to 34 in 2008.
 Even once recruited, the younger people pose challenges for sampling studies.
 ''On an average day, half of 18- to 34-year-olds don't provide usable data,'' Ms. Shagrin said. Young people may leave the people meter, which is roughly the size of a cellphone, at home because carrying it is inconvenient in certain situations, as when on a date or while playing sports.
 Like other research companies, Arbitron weights the sample to achieve equal representation for each demographic group.
 ''Those few people who do decide to participate count more than those in other age groups,'' potentially skewing the results further, Mr. Adgate said.
 Bob Patchen, chief research officer for Arbitron, said young people have less routine in their lives, making them more likely to forget or lose the meter. The company sometimes visits young respondents to encourage participation. It also plans to release ''meter skins'' that will allow participants to customize their meters, in much the way some young people change the colors and textures of their cellphones. 
 The larger issues raised by people meters involve the fragmentation of media and the preference of advertisers to reach narrow swaths of consumers. On television, as in radio, programs that appeal to 18- to 34-year-old viewers can become cash machines because advertisers will pay a premium to reach young people. But as media companies use Arbitron and Nielsen to carve ever-thinner slices of demographic data, concerns about the reliability of that data increase.
 ''Sometimes the ratings, particularly in cable, are really being generated by just a couple of people in the sample,'' said Alan Wurtzel, president for research and media development at NBC.
 But over time, the data tends to become increasingly reliable, researchers say. Arbitron will spend the next nine months trying to make its customers just as confident.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kazzanova, a D.J. for La Kalle 105.9 FM. The station's owner was skeptical of the new meters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (91%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%)

COMPANY: ARBITRON INC (92%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (84%)

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007



702 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: The Great Divide

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Yesterday The Times published a highly informative chart laying out the positions of the presidential candidates on major issues. It was, I'd argue, a useful reality check for those who believe that the next president can somehow usher in a new era of bipartisan cooperation. 
 For what the chart made clear was the extent to which Democrats and Republicans live in separate moral and intellectual universes. 
 On one side, the Democrats are all promising to get out of Iraq and offering strongly progressive policies on taxes, health care and the environment. That's understandable: the public hates the war, and public opinion seems to be running in a progressive direction.
 What seems harder to understand is what's happening on the other side -- the degree to which almost all the Republicans have chosen to align themselves closely with the unpopular policies of an unpopular president. And I'm not just talking about their continuing enthusiasm for the Iraq war. The G.O.P. candidates are equally supportive of Bush economic policies.
 Why would politicians support Bushonomics? After all, the public is very unhappy with the state of the economy, for good reason. The ''Bush boom,'' such as it was, bypassed most Americans -- median family income, adjusted for inflation, has stagnated in the Bush years, and so have the real earnings of the typical worker. Meanwhile, insecurity has increased, with a declining fraction of Americans receiving health insurance from their employers.
 And things seem likely to get worse as the election approaches. For a few years, the economy was at least creating jobs at a respectable pace -- but as the housing slump and the associated credit crunch accelerate and spill over to the rest of the economy, most analysts expect employment to weaken, too.
 All in all, it's an economic and political environment in which you'd expect Republican politicians, as a sheer matter of calculation, to look for ways to distance themselves from the current administration's economic policies and record -- say, by expressing some concern about rising income gaps and the fraying social safety net.
 In fact, however, except for Mike Huckabee -- a peculiar case who'll deserve more discussion if he stays in contention -- the leading Republican contenders have gone out of their way to assure voters that they will not deviate an inch from the Bush path. Why? Because the G.O.P. is still controlled by a conservative movement that does not tolerate deviations from tax-cutting, free-market, greed-is-good orthodoxy.
 To see the extent to which Republican politicians still cower before the power of movement conservatism, consider the sad case of John McCain.
 Mr. McCain's lingering reputation as a maverick straight talker comes largely from his opposition to the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003, which he said at the time were too big and too skewed to the rich. Those objections would seem to have even more force now, with America facing the costs of an expensive war -- which Mr. McCain fervently supports -- and with income inequality reaching new heights.
 But Mr. McCain now says that he supports making the Bush tax cuts permanent. Not only that: he's become a convert to crude supply-side economics, claiming that cutting taxes actually increases revenues. That's an assertion even Bush administration officials concede is false.
 Oh, and what about his earlier opposition to tax cuts? Mr. McCain now says he opposed the Bush tax cuts only because they weren't offset by spending cuts. 
 Aside from the logical problem here -- if tax cuts increase revenue, why do they need to be offset? -- even a cursory look at what Mr. McCain said at the time shows that he's trying to rewrite history: he actually attacked the Bush tax cuts from the left, not the right. But he has clearly decided that it's better to fib about his record than admit that he wasn't always a rock-solid economic conservative.
 So what does the conversion of Mr. McCain into an avowed believer in voodoo economics -- and the comparable conversions of Mitt Romney and Rudy Giuliani -- tell us? That bitter partisanship and political polarization aren't going away anytime soon. 
 There's a fantasy, widely held inside the Beltway, that men and women of good will from both parties can be brought together to hammer out bipartisan solutions to the nation's problems. 
 If such a thing were possible, Mr. McCain, Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani -- a self-proclaimed maverick, the former governor of a liberal state and the former mayor of an equally liberal city -- would seem like the kind of men Democrats could deal with. (O.K., maybe not Mr. Giuliani.) In fact, however, it's not possible, not given the nature of today's Republican Party, which has turned men like Mr. McCain and Mr. Romney into hard-line ideologues. On economics, and on much else, there is no common ground between the parties. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); TAX LAW (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007



703 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Awkward Encounters in the Hollywood Trenches

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
A dozen striking screenwriters gathered in the bar at the Hotel Bel Air not long ago to decompress after another day on the picket line. Less than 10 feet away sat another strike-weary pair: Peter Chernin, president of the News Corporation, and Barry Meyer, chief executive of Warner Brothers.
 Neither group acknowledged the other, although a couple of writers quipped under their breath that the moguls should pick up everyone's bar tab. Others fretted about being seen hanging out a five-star hotel, an awfully gilded setting for a bunch of guild members complaining about unfair compensation. 
 ''My stomach did a flip-flop,'' said one writer who was in the room. ''Part of me wanted to go yell at these guys for treating us so poorly, and part of me wanted to go hide.'' (The moguls did not notice the gathering of writers, according to their respective spokeswomen).
 Similar scenes play out daily in the giant high school cafeteria that is Hollywood, contributing awkwardness to a labor strike unlike any other. The captains of most industries do not mix socially with the rank and file, but the people on opposite sides of this bargaining table often send their children to the same elite schools, dine at the same fashionable restaurants and attend the same holiday parties.
 Only a rarefied circle of writers, of course, has the ability to truly mingle with Hollywood's corporate royalty. The vast majority of writers are average folks who manage a middle-class existence or are unemployed in their chosen profession at any given moment. The union says the average income for a member is $60,000.
 But the union also counts as members dozens of creators of hit television shows, who can take home upwards of $5 million a year, and writers who command fees of $1 million for a screenplay or more. 
 As the strike enters its ninth week, some of the people from both sides are sunbathing elbow to elbow at the Four Seasons Hualalai pool in Hawaii, one of several luxury resorts where Hollywood's upper echelons jet for winter vacations. 
 Even attending synagogue is tricky, said Rabbi John L. Rosove of Temple Israel of Hollywood.
 ''We have writers and studio people in the congregation who are friends,'' he said. ''It puts everyone in an awkward position, including me.''
 Hot tempers dominate the picket lines, and tension among friends is rising as more people in ancillary businesses lose their jobs and weeks without work stretch into months. The 12,000 members of the Writers Guild of America walked off the job on Nov. 5 over payments for the use of programs and movies on the Internet. 
 But once the strike captains call it a day at the end of the picketing shifts and both sides dispatch their last press releases, the conflict settles into a quiet discomfort.
 ''When I see writer friends at the supermarket or at the movies, we know that those places are not forums to get into a debate on the strike,'' said Nina Tassler, president of entertainment at CBS. ''I've been friends with some of these people for 20 years.''
 Not everyone is forcing a smile.
 In November, John August, the writer of movies like ''Charlie's Angeles'' and ''Corpse Bride,'' spied Peter Roth, president of Warner Brothers Television, at Osteria Mozza, a Los Angeles restaurant. ''When you see someone you kind of know at a restaurant, it's always a process to figure out whether or not to say hi,'' Mr. August wrote on his blog. ''But the strike makes that decision process much more complicated.''
 Instead of confronting the studio executive, Mr. August returned home and wrote a vulgar blog entry about what he would have liked to say. One part of it that is printable here said: ''Everyone knows the C.E.O.'s are talking out of two sides of their mouths.''
 Some on each side of the fence conceded they avoid one another, ducking out of the school concert early or looking the other way at the Grove, a popular shopping mall next door to the soundstages for ''American Idol.'' Even some restaurant managers are trying to help, taking care to seat rival camps a safe distance from each other.
 ''Of course we pay attention to that kind of thing,'' said Jay Perrin, manager of Campanile. ''I don't think a fistfight would break out,'' he added. ''It is more like people cracking jokes about each other with more bite than normal.''
 But steering clear of the enemy in Hollywood is not easy. In a one-degree-of-separation town, a lot of Hatfields and McCoys are married, dating or related.
 The executive who helped create the so-called doomsday clock, a producers' alliance Web site that adds up the wages striking writers are losing, is married to a striking writer. The lead writer for ''The Office'' is married to the president of entertainment at Lifetime.
 And then there is J. Nicholas Counter III, the president of the producers' alliance and lead negotiator. His son-in-law is Alex Kurtzman, one of the most successful writers in Hollywood, whose credits include ''Mission: Impossible III,'' ''Transformers'' and the coming ''Star Trek.'' Mr. Counter's daughter is a Writers Guild of America member, too.
 Holiday parties and other festivities have been sparse in Hollywood, with studios and networks wondering about what kind of message such celebrations would send to the thousands of people out of work because of the strike.
 Still, some have soldiered on, leading to awkward interruptions in cocktail chatter. Tom Kaipinos, the writer behind the television drama ''Californication,'' was one of the few guild members who attended Showtime's holiday party.
 ''This doesn't count as crossing the picket line, does it?'' Mr. Kaipinos asked with a nervous laugh. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 2, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the awkward social situation in Hollywood caused by the writers' strike misspelled the surname of the writer of the television drama ''Californication,'' who was one of the few members of the Writers Guild of America to attend the Showtime network's holiday party. He is Tom Kapinos, not Kaipinos. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the Writers Guild of America are applying their talents to picket signs as their strike enters its ninth week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCNEW/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); STRIKES (90%); WRITERS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); LAYOFFS (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); INTERNET VIDEO (63%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (72%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (72%); NWS (ASX) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%)

PERSON: PETER CHERNIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007



704 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: The Office Pool, 2008

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
William Safire, a former Times Op-Ed columnist, is the chairman of the Dana Foundation.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 THIS is the 34th annual office pool in this space, a New Year's tradition that has become the most excruciating multiple-choice prediction test in world media. Nostradamus himself couldn't score over 50 percent. Last year, despite a good bet on surging optimism in Iraq, I was mistaken 12 times out of 15. But the audacity of hope springs eternal; here, together with fearless readers, I go. For each item, choose one, all or none.
 1. The business headline of the year will be: 
 (a) Big Bounce to 15,000 Dow After Soft Landing 
 (b) Recession Has Brokers Selling Apples for Five Euros on Wall Street 
 (c) Subprime Mess Was Greatly Exaggerated 
 (d) China Buys Boeing
 2. The Academy Award for Best Picture will go to: 
 (a) ''There Will Be Blood'' 
 (b) ''Sweeney Todd'' 
 (c) ''American Gangster'' 
 (d) ''The Kite Runner''
 (e) ''Charlie Wilson's War''
 (But don't expect winners to cross picket lines to pick up their Oscars.)
 3. The Roberts Supreme Court will decide that: 
 (a) gun rights belong to the individual, but the Second Amendment's key limitation is that gun possession should be ''well-regulated'' 
 (b) states can require voter ID to prevent fraud even if it reduces access 
 (c) lethal injection is not cruel or unusual punishment if it isn't painful 
 (d) the ''ancient right'' of habeas corpus applies to Guantanamo detainees no matter what law Congress passes
 4. The fiction sleeper best seller will be: 
 (a) ''Missy,'' a first novel by the British playwright Chris Hanna 
 (b) ''Shadow and Light,'' by Jonathan Rabb, set in prewar Germany
 5. The nonfiction success will be: 
 (a) ''American-Made: The Enduring Legacy of the W.P.A.,'' by Nick Taylor 
 (b) ''What Do We Do Now?'' interregnum advice by Stephen Hess of the Brookings Institution 
 (c) ''Counselor: A Life at the Edge of History'' by Ted Sorensen, President Kennedy's alter ego 
 (d) ''Basic Brown,'' a memoir by Willie Brown, former mayor of San Francisco 
 (e) ''Human,'' by the neuroscientist Michael Gazzaniga
 (f) ''Come to Think of It,'' by Daniel Schorr
 6. The media world will be rocked as: 
 (a) fizzling ratings for a China-dominated '08 Olympics induce G.E. to sell NBC Universal to cable-departing Time Warner 
 (b) ''pod push-back'' by music customers threatens Apple's dominance of digital music space 
 (c) Google challenges telecommunications giants by taking steps to provide both telephone and video on the Internet
 7. In United States foreign policy debates:
 (a) success in Iraq will embarrass cut-and-run Democrats 
 (b) failure in Iraq will sink stay-the-course Republicans 
 (c) Iraq muddling along won't affect the American election
 8. The de facto dictator truly leaving the political scene this year will be:
 (a) Hugo Chavez
 (b) Vladimir V. Putin (afflicted by the Time cover jinx) 
 (c) Robert Mugabe
 (d) Fidel Castro
 9. By year's end, American diplomats will be negotiating openly with:
 (a) Hamas 
 (b) the Taliban 
 (c) Iran
 10. The two-state solution to the Arab-Israeli dispute appears when: 
 (a) a free election or civil strife in the West Bank and Gaza brings a unified, neighborly government to the Palestinians 
 (b) an Ehud Barak-Benjamin Netanyahu rematch results in a majoritarian, rightist coalition victory 
 (c) the Jerusalem division issue is resolved by expanding the official city limits to embrace two capitals
 11. Assuming the Iowa caucuses to be meaningless pollster-media hype, the January primary state with the biggest influence on the outcome of both parties' nominations will be: 
 (a) New Hampshire 
 (b) Michigan 
 (c) South Carolina 
 (d) Florida
 12. The American troop level in Iraq at year's end will be: 
 (a) the present 152,000 
 (b) the pre-surge 130,000 
 (c) 100,000 and dropping steadily
 13. The issue most affecting the vote on Election Day will be: 
 (a) immigration: absorb 'em or deport 'em 
 (b) taxation: soak the rich or lift all boats 
 (c) health plans: incentivize or socialize 
 (d) diplomacy: accommodating realism or extending freedom
 14. The presidential election will hinge primarily on: 
 (a) a debate blooper 
 (b) success or failure in Iraq 
 (c) Hispanic backlash 
 (d) a personal scandal 
 (e) a terror attack on the United States 
 (f) racism/sexism 
 (g) the economy, stupid
 15. The Democratic ticket will be: 
 (a) Hillary Clinton-Barack Obama 
 (b) Obama-Clinton 
 (c) Clinton-Bill Richardson 
 (d) Obama-Joseph Biden 
 (e) John Edwards-Dianne Feinstein
 16. The Republican ticket will be: 
 (a) Rudolph Giuliani-Mike Huckabee 
 (b) Mitt Romney-Gen. David Petraeus 
 (c) John McCain-Michael Bloomberg
 17. The winning theme in November will be: 
 (a) time for a change 
 (b) don't let them take it away 
 (c) experience counts 
 (d) nobody's perfect
 18. The election will be decided on: 
 (a) charisma 
 (b) experience 
 (c) character 
 (d) sex 
 (e) money 
 (f) issues
 19. As 2009 dawns, Americans will face:
 (a) a leftward march, with the Clintons in the White House and a Democratic Congress feeling no tax, entitlement or earmark restraint 
 (b) creative gridlock, as President McCain finds common ground with a centrist Democratic Congress 
 (c) a stunning G.O.P. conservative resurgence, with the equally long-shot Washington Redskins girding for the 2009 Super Bowl
 My picks: 1 (a); 2 (a); 3 (all); 4 (b); 5 (a); 6 (b); 7 (c); 8 (d), and I've been losing this bet against Castro for 33 years; 9 (none); 10 (all); 11(c) 12 (c); 13 (b); 14 (a); 15 (a); 16 (c); 17 (d); 18 (c); 19 (b). Lose this list.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY BRAD HOLLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (88%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); BESTSELLERS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (70%); GUN CONTROL (70%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (70%); DRAMA LITERATURE (68%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (67%); WRITERS (67%); HABEAS CORPUS (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%); CRIME PREVENTION (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (56%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (90%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007



705 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 171 words

 BODY:
A SHORTENED WEEK It is an abbreviated trading week, with the markets closing early for New Year's Eve on Monday and the markets closed on Tuesday, New Year's Day. 
 ECONOMIC INDICATORS Despite the light week, some important numbers will be reported, most notably on employment, housing and manufacturing.
 Reports will be released on existing-home sales for November (Monday); construction spending for November and the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for December (Wednesday); factory orders for November, Freddie Mac's mortgage rates and automobile sales for December (Thursday); and employment for December (Friday).
 EARNINGS REPORTS Only a few companies are reporting earnings, including Finish Line and Monsanto (Thursday) and the Shaw Group (Friday).
 ET CETERA The Federal Open Market Committee will release minutes of its Dec. 11 meeting (Wednesday). 
 Also, the vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, Donald L. Kohn, will speak about macroeconomic policy at a conference in New Orleans (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (70%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); MORTGAGE RATES (54%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (71%); SHAW GROUP INC (56%); MONSANTO CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (71%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (71%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (71%); NAICS541620 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (56%); NAICS332996 FABRICATED PIPE & PIPE FITTING MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (56%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007



706 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: ... And Romney Fires One of His Own

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
This television advertisement for Mitt Romney, his third aiming at Mike Huckabee, is running in Iowa.
 PRODUCER Midnight Ride Media
 THE SCRIPT A narrator says: ''Two good men. But who is ready to make tough decisions? Mike Huckabee? Soft on government spending. He grew a $6 billion government into a $16 billion government. Backed in-state tuition benefits for illegals, and granted 1,033 pardons and commutations, including 12 murderers. His foreign policy? 'Ludicrous,' says Condoleezza Rice. Mitt Romney held spending down below inflation. Cut taxes. Zero pardons. The difference? Strong leadership.'' 
 ON THE SCREEN The advertisement starts with Mr. Romney shaking hands with voters. Then it cuts to pictures of Mr. Romney and Mr. Huckabee, highlighting Mr. Huckabee's face with type that underscores the narration about Mr. Huckabee's record. The advertisement then highlights the picture of Mr. Romney, with the words ''held spending down,'' ''cut taxes,'' and ''zero pardons.''
 ACCURACY According to the Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration, the spending figures the advertisement attributes to Mr. Huckabee are erroneous. In the 1997 fiscal year, before Mr. Huckabee took over as governor, total state expenditures were $7.7 billion. When he left office 10 years later, they were $16.5 billion. But using inflation-adjusted figures, the numbers would be $8.5 billion and $12.7 billion. Ms. Rice, the secretary of state, did not call Mr. Huckabee's entire foreign policy ''ludicrous,'' a word she used in referring to a specific quote by Mr. Huckabee in which he said the Bush administration's ''arrogant bunker mentality'' in foreign policy was counterproductive. 
 SCORECARD After dropping commercials attacking Mr. Huckabee from its advertisement rotation in Iowa over Christmas, the Romney campaign resumed its offensive over the airwaves. Mr. Romney's advisers say the assault is working, along with stepped-up news media scrutiny of Mr. Huckabee's record, enabling him to close the gap in polls in the state over the last few weeks. Indeed, a McClatchy-MSNBC poll released Sunday showed Mr. Romney had regained a lead in the state. Mr. Huckabee's undermanned staff has been limited in its ability to respond to the challenges from Mr. Romney. But after choosing largely not to engage his rival, Mr. Huckabee over the weekend began a vigorous attack of his own. 
 MICHAEL LUO 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PARDONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (93%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007



707 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: On America's Watch

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
In recent years, Pakistan has been the home of banks that wired money for the 9/11 plot, been the chief source of illicit nuclear proliferation, offered a tribal-area haven for planners of worldwide terrorism, abetted the reconstitution of the Taliban and educated many a suicide bomber in Islamic religious schools. 
 At the same time, President Pervez Musharraf, in power since a 1999 coup, has received about $10 billion in U.S. aid, much of it to reinforce the Pakistani military in fighting Al Qaeda, the Taliban and global jihadism in South Waziristan and other tribal areas. 
 If a U.S. policy was ever broken, this is it. 
 The assassination of Benazir Bhutto, the Western-educated former prime minister who returned from exile on Oct. 18 under a flawed U.S.-mediated plan to shift Pakistan from direct to indirect military rule with a civilian veneer, has given the coup de grace to this botched American attempt to manage a nuclear-armed Islamic state. 
 It's not clear who killed Bhutto, although hers was a chronicle of a death foretold. Musharraf's government, whose credibility is shot, says that Baitullah Mehsud, a militant with links to Al Qaeda and the Taliban, was behind it. That would exonerate the military, whose opposition to the democratic movement Bhutto personified goes back to its execution of her father; the intelligence services that long nurtured Taliban zealots as agents of influence in Afghanistan; and Musharraf himself, who knew Bhutto's vulnerability. 
 With accounts of the cause of death shifting from bullet wounds to the bombing that followed the gunfire, it's too early to discount the possibility that the assassin, or assassins, got some help from Pakistan's many official reservoirs of extremist Islamist sympathy. 
 It's suspicious that both the crime scene and Bhutto's car were cleaned up before investigators had access. Senator Hillary Clinton's call for an international inquiry is a good one. How can Musharraf, who showed his contempt for an independent judiciary by dissolving the Supreme Court in November, oversee a credible investigation? It should be accompanied by a U.S. Congressional inquiry into post-9/11 American policy toward Pakistan. 
 But some things need no elucidation. First, the United States, out of misplaced deference to Musharraf, failed to secure Bhutto the protection she was demanding. Her husband, Asif Ali Zardari, visited the United States shortly before her death to plead for help, but was denied the meetings he sought at the top levels of the State Department. 
 Similarly, the Bush administration failed to pressure Musharraf to accept Bhutto family demands for F.B.I. involvement in the investigation of the attempted assassination of Bhutto on Oct. 18. 
 Second, Al Qaeda has turned some of its attention from Afghanistan to the richer rewards of upending Pakistan. 
 Third, Musharraf's ambivalence has hurt U.S. interests, culminating in a murder that shames America. He has safeguarded the nukes but never ensured that his military or intelligence services break from their Taliban baby. This double game must end. 
 Fourth, years of strong economic growth have expanded a Pakistani middle class that wants democracy's rule of law. Radical Islamist parties constitute a minority: unlike in the shah's Iran, democratic forces outweigh the theocratic. 
 A discredited Musharraf can do nothing for Pakistan without credible elections. Credibility requires international monitors or a transitional arrangement allowing all major parties to participate in the vote's organization. The election should be held on or as soon as possible after Jan. 8. A large sympathy vote for Bhutto's Pakistan Peoples Party is likely. 
 Fifth, the United States must redirect policy toward forthright support for democracy. The Bush administration has seen the military as a bulwark against extremism. The true bulwark, as Bhutto knew, is the middle class. Barnett Rubin of New York University observed, ''If Afghanistan is ready for democracy, Pakistan certainly is.'' 
 Sixth, the absence of engagement with Iran leaves the United States overdependent on Pakistan for influence in Afghanistan. A post-9/11 tragedy has been the U.S. failure to build on the Iranian opening that the overthrow of a shared enemy, the Taliban in Kabul, created. 
 Bhutto's loss is devastating, comparable with Yitzhak Rabin's. Her Kennedylike family tragedy leaves the fathomless void of what might have been. 
 I met her more than 30 years ago when we were at Oxford. Arriving late one night at Balliol College, I saw a solitary light in the quadrangle. On a whim, a fellow student and I went to the room. There was Bhutto deep in earnest talk about politics. She was gracious at the intrusion, memorably so. 
 Of grace and conviction her unusual fusion of East and West was formed. Only Pakistani democracy can avenge, in part, the disappearance of the rare bridge she offered and offset the American mistakes that led to this loss. 
 Blog: www.iht.com/passages. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); COUPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ASSASSINATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WIRE TRANSFERS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DEATHS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); RELIGION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SHOOTINGS (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (57%); MURDER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (79%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (58%); BAITULLAH MEHSUD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007



708 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; The Year in Pictures; 2007: THE YEAR IN PICTURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Disasters, Natural And Not

 BODY:
With the hot, dry Santa Ana winds acting as bellows, wildfires in Southern California in October destroyed hundreds of homes, killed 10 people and prompted mass evacuations. The disaster led to debate, once more, on whether growth should be regulated and restricted in fire-prone areas. 
 But 2007 also marked the start of a different housing catastrophe, one that could continue for years. By some estimates, up to five million Americans might lose their homes through foreclosures, unable to pay off loans in what is known as the subprime mortgage crisis.
 There was plenty of blame to go around for the disaster: predatory activities by lenders, wishful thinking by borrowers, lack of due diligence by banks and inadequate oversight by the government. There was plenty of fallout, too, extending far beyond the housing market to the broader American and global economies.
 Heads rolled at Wall Street banks that had to write off billions of dollars of repackaged debt; a resulting credit squeeze put the brakes on merger activity; and communities across the country tightened their budgets as they faced plummeting tax revenue from dropping housing prices.
 Late in the year, the Bush administration and the mortgage industry agreed on a plan to freeze payments for some of the hardest-hit borrowers to avert foreclosures, though Democrats criticized the plan as not going far enough.
 There were growing concerns in 2007 about the quality and safety of consumer products from China, as its economy grew by leaps and bounds with scant regulation. Toys coated with lead paint were recalled by companies around the world; toxic ingredients were discovered in toothpaste and medicines; and pet food contaminated with the industrial chemical melamine was discovered on the market.
 American companies increased their testing of Chinese goods, while the White House pressured the Beijing government to intensify oversight.
 The United States had its share of traumas, most notably the killing of 32 people by a student at Virginia Tech, the worst mass shooting in American history. The collapse of a bridge in Minneapolis on a summer night that killed 13 people and injured more than 100 added to the country's toll. And in New York City, a steam explosion killed one person and injured dozens, reminding millions more, however briefly, of the traumatic events of September 2001.
 In sports, accomplishments like the Boston Red Sox winning their second championship in four years were overshadowed by allegations of steroid use among athletes from many sports. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KNOCK AT THE DOOR: Karina Diaz, 7, from Lawrenceville, Ga., watches an eviction crew clear out her family's home after creditors foreclosed on it this summer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
GIVEN A PASS: Barry Bonds, center, being intentionally walked by the Milwaukee Brewers in the weeks before he replaced Hank Aaron as baseball's home run king. 110 PERCENT: The Boston Red Sox outfielder Coco Crisp's pursuit of a drive by Alex Rodriguez ended in vain early in the season. The Red Sox ended up champions. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JED JACOBSOHN/GETTY IMAGES)
OLYMPIC FALL: The sprinter Marion Jones, left, outside the federal court in White Plains after admitting that she took performance enhancing drugs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/GETTY IMAGES)
BURNING BRIGHT: Wildfires in Southern California forced hundreds of thousands of residents to evacuate as they crept toward more developed areas, including the Bonita section of San Diego. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER/GETTY IMAGES)
DARK DAY: The Virginia Tech campus mourned after a student rampaged there. He killed 32-- undergraduates, graduate students and faculty members -- before killing himself
SURVEYING DAMAGE: President Bush, above left, is shown the collapsed bridge on Interstate 35W in Minneapolis. His guide, Gary Babineau, rescued students from a bus. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MIDTOWN BLAST: A Con Edison steam pipe's explosion in July near Grand Central Terminal left the city jittery for a brief moment. One woman was killed, and more than 40 people were injured. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ON THE LINE: After finding out that suppliers in southern China used lead paint to manufacture Thomas & Friends toys, the American company RC2 ordered a recall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); FIRES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BUDGETS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (70%); PRODUCT SAFETY (70%); LEAD (69%); STEROIDS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); HISTORY (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); LEAD PAINT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (84%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (75%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008



709 of 709 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: With New Poll Results, Candidates Scramble for Edge in Caucuses

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and JULIE BOSMAN; David D. Kirkpatrick, Cate Doty, Michael Cooper and Michael Luo contributed reporting from Iowa, and Marc Santora from New Hampshire.

DATELINE: NEWTON, Iowa 

 BODY:
The presidential candidates spent the last Sunday before the Iowa caucuses attending church services, staging big rallies and sniping at one another as new polls suggested tightening races in both the Democratic and Republican fields.
 With three Democrats scrambling for the lead in Iowa heading into the voting on Thursday, the candidates tried to paint their opponents as inadequate for the challenges facing the nation. Former Senator John Edwards, in particular, continued that line of attack against Senator Barack Obama, suggesting that he was too ''nice'' to fight and win against special interests and big corporations.
 ''You can beat these people if you're tough enough, if you're smart enough, if you've got the fight inside you,'' Mr. Edwards said at a high school in Carroll, Iowa. ''You can't nice them to death. You try and nice them to death, they'll trample all over you.'' 
 Mr. Obama, speaking here at Newton Senior High School, took up Mr. Edwards's challenge and noted that he had fought and won changes in lobbying and ethics rules, to the disappointment of special interests.
 ''It is true that I believe we can disagree without being disagreeable, Mr. Obama said. ''I do not believe that change will come with more angry rhetoric of turning up the heat on Republicans. We don't need more heat in Washington, we need more light.''
 Mr. Obama also tweaked the third leading Democrat here, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, by knocking her husband by name for suggesting that an Obama presidency would be a gamble for the nation.
 ''It'll be a roll of the dice -- that's what Bill Clinton said,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I have to remind people that the real gamble in this election is having the same old folks do the same old things over and over again and somehow expecting a different result. That's the real risk.''
 Howard Wolfson, a Clinton spokesman, said, ''The list of Democrats Senator Obama is attacking -- John Edwards, Hillary Clinton and now Bill Clinton -- gets longer and longer as we get closer and closer to the caucus.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton did not engage either of her chief opponents directly, beyond her standard line about her belief in ''working hard for change,'' instead of demanding it (Mr. Edwards's position, in her view) or hoping for it (Mr. Obama's). But she did push back against rivals who say her views on the economy and education and her experience were rooted in the '90s when she was the first lady.
 ''One of my opponents will say, 'There she goes again, talking about the past,''' she said at a memorial hall in Traer, Iowa. ''It's not like I'm talking about ancient Rome.''
 A McClatchy/MSNBC poll found Mr. Obama, Mr. Edwards and Mrs. Clinton essentially in a dead heat among likely caucusgoers.
 Seeking an edge in Thursday night's vote, Mr. Obama directly appealed to voters in Newton to consider voting for him if their chosen candidate did not have enough support in the first round of caucus voting.
 Some campaigns are also trying to maintain good relations with their rivals, in hopes that an also-ran candidate might steer supporters to a leading candidate; former President Bill Clinton, for instance, recently called Senator Christopher J. Dodd to congratulate him on a debate performance, an overture that was viewed in the Dodd camp as a warm gesture intended to encourage goodwill for Mrs. Clinton at some future point.
 The McClatchy poll also found a similar dynamic in the Republican field, with former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas tied with former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, and others lagging.
 Defending his characterization of the Bush administration's ''arrogant bunker mentality'' toward the Iraq war, Mr. Huckabee accused Mr. Romney of hypocrisy for demanding that he apologize to the administration.
 ''He himself had talked about the major mistakes that had been made by the administration,'' Mr. Huckabee said on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC. ''He demanded of me an apology, but he didn't demand of himself an apology for also being critical, as have most Republicans.''
 Mr. Huckabee then attended an early service at the Cornerstone Family Church in Des Moines. When parishioners left, they found fliers on their car windshields criticizing Mr. Huckabee for signing a bill to authorize video poker at Arkansas race tracks and for accepting a speaking fee from a company involved in stem-cell research. The fliers were unsigned. Staff at other large evangelical churches in the area reported their appearance as well.
 Meanwhile, an independent group, Common Sense Issues, said it was beginning to run television commercials attacking Mr. Romney's record on abortion -- the first paid advertisements returning fire at Mr. Romney after his better-financed campaign blanketed Iowa with criticism of Mr. Huckabee. 
 Contrasting Mr. Huckabee's long record of opposition to abortion rights with Mr. Romney's more recent change to that position, the commercial asks, ''On the most fundamental issue, shouldn't we trust a man who has always been consistent?'' Patrick Davis, a spokesman for the group, said it paid $50,000 to run television commercials on the Fox News Channel in Iowa through Jan. 1.
 Mr. Romney campaigned in eastern Iowa and seemed noticeably more confident on Sunday, choosing to take questions from reporters in Columbus Junction after declining to do so a day before.
 ''Two or three weeks ago, the polls said he was ahead by over 20 points,'' Mr. Romney said of Mr. Huckabee. ''Now the polls are saying we're virtually tied.''
 Rudolph W. Giuliani wrapped up his final campaign swing here in Mount Pleasant on Saturday night and left, with no plans to return to the state before the caucuses. 
 His campaign began re-branding Mr. Giuliani as the candidate of religious conservatives, or values voters, handing out pamphlets featuring the endorsement from the Rev. Pat Robertson and a quotation from Mr. Giuliani in large letters: ''My belief in God and reliance on His guidance is at the core of who I am.''
 Senator John McCain, meanwhile, continued to barnstorm through New Hampshire, drawing large crowds. He also picked up his 26th newspaper endorsement, from The Nashua Telegraph.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney meeting on Sunday with a supporter, Ruth Rurecht, 99, at the Cove Restaurant in Moscow, Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEATRICE DE GEA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); RELIGION (78%); LOBBYING (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); ETHICS (66%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN EDWARDS (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2007

 
