

1 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Money Can't Buy Happiness. Er, Can It?

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman; Paul Krugman is an economics professor at M.I.T. and the author, most recently, of "The Return of Depression Economics."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
A few weeks ago my wife and I finally gave in to the pressures of modern life and acquired a cell phone. But it turned out that once we had the thing we had a few questions -- questions we couldn't get answered, because customer service was swamped with similar calls from the thousands of other people who had recently signed on.
Meanwhile, my parents started calling contractors about some minor work on their house -- only to be told that every carpenter and plumber in the area was booked well into next year. 
 Talk to almost any middle-class American, and you will hear similar stories -- about poor service, excessive traffic, overpriced housing and so on. In fact, there seems to be a sort of rising chorus of complaints about the annoyances of prosperity -- complaints, in effect, that spending lots of money isn't as gratifying as people expected it to be. Most of this is petty stuff, but it is just possible that the chorus of complaints marks the beginning of a broader shift in attitudes -- a shift that will be healthy if it doesn't come too quickly.
Of course, people don't complain about the disappointments of prosperity unless they are prosperous, and in a way all this whining is a symptom of a remarkably successful era in American economic history. Still, you don't have to be an ascetic to wonder if there isn't something a bit manic about the pace of getting and -- especially -- spending in fin-de-siecle America.
Even the dry statistics suggest that something a little strange is going on. Consider: we are now eight years into an economic expansion. Consumer spending traditionally lags behind the economy as a whole in boom times, because families figure that times will not always be that good and that they should save for a rainy day.
This time, however, consumers are leading the charge: while the economy expanded an impressive 4 percent between the first quarter of 1998 and the first quarter of 1999, consumption grew 5.5 percent, and spending on consumer durables -- cell phones, bathroom fixtures, S.U.V.'s and home entertainment systems -- surged an incredible 12 percent.
There are at least two reasons to question whether America's consumption boom is really a good thing.
One is that by conventional standards, the typical American family is being a bit, well, imprudent in spending so much -- indeed, personal savings, never high in this country, have now disappeared almost completely. True, millions of families have seen their wealth surge because of a soaring stock market, but while more people than ever own stock, most still have no significant personal stake in the market.
You might argue that ordinary families are spending freely, despite sluggish wage growth, because they believe that prosperity is here to stay. But survey evidence suggests that many workers remain nervous about job security, a nervousness that manifests itself in a surprising reluctance to demand wage increases.
So why is spending so high? Much of the surge is driven by those families that do own a lot of stock and have been willing to treat recent capital gains not only as durable but as likely to continue. And at least some of the rest is the result of what Robert Frank calls luxury fever: families with annual incomes of $30,000 try to emulate the consumption of those with $60,000, who try to emulate those with $120,000, and so on. Ultimately we are all trying to keep up with the Gateses, and some of us really can't afford it.
And this leads to a deeper concern: there is good reason to think that even those consumers who can afford all this spending will eventually find that they can't get no satisfaction. It is hard to talk about this without sounding either moralistic or supercilious, but it turns out that the folk wisdom is backed by hard statistical evidence: you really can't buy happiness, certainly not for society as a whole.
Partly this is because of congestion effects like the ones my family is experiencing: when few people have cars, the one-car family is king, but when everyone has two, a lot of time is spent in traffic jams.
A more important point, probably, is that human beings are hard-wired to judge themselves not by their absolute standard of living, but in comparison to others. It may be true that in material terms today's borderline poor live as well as the upper-middle class did a few decades back, but that does not stop them from feeling poor. And consumer spending ultimately disappoints because of habituation: once you have become accustomed to a given standard of living, the thrill is gone.
But there is one very powerful argument that can be made on behalf of recent American consumerism: not that it is good for consumers, but that it has been good for producers. You see, spending may not produce happiness, but it does create jobs, and unemployment is very effective at creating misery.
Better to have manic consumers, American style, than the depressive consumers of Japan -- a country where the only consumer durables that have sold well the last few years are home safes, the better to hoard cash in.
This attempt to keep up with people richer than ourselves, however ineffectual it may have been on its own terms, has allowed the United States economy to sail through a global financial storm unscathed, and arguably made the difference between a global wobble and a repeat of the 1930's.
There is a strong element of rat race in America's consumer-led boom, but those rats racing in their cages are what have kept the wheels of commerce turning. And while it will be a shame if Americans continue to compete over who can own the most toys, the worst thing of all will be if the competition comes to a sudden stop.
Now there are faint hints in popular culture -- though certainly not yet in the spending numbers -- that Americans are starting to become disillusioned with high consumption, that in years to come the American consumer will become wiser and more prudent. Let's hope it really happens -- but not too fast.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (George Booth)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); CONSUMPTION (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); DURABLE GOODS (68%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL (PROF) PAUL KRUGMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



2 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: An Aria for the Arts at a Harlem School;
Rigorous Training Fills a Void and Nurtures Dreams

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI 

 BODY:
Up to now there have been no musicians in the family of Willie Boy Morales Medina, an aspiring singer from Queens who is 17, husky, almost 6 feet 3 and still growing. His mother loves music but can't sing a note. "She's the only female bass I know," he said recently.
Mr. Morales Medina's voice is still shifting around. For now, he seems to be a baritone, but his heroes are tenors, especially Luciano Pavarotti and Andrea Bocelli. He dreams of a career as a singer. Getting accepted by the La Guardia High School of Music and Art and Performing Arts was a step toward that goal. 
 But where he finally found the courage, support and, most important, training to potentially realize his dream was the Harlem School of the Arts on St. Nicholas Avenue near the corner of West 141st Street, in the Hamilton Heights section of Harlem. He spends a lot of time there after school and on weekends.
The Harlem School was founded in 1964 by the soprano Dorothy Maynor in the basement of St. James Presbyterian Church, next to its current modern building. Today the school serves some 3,000 students, from youngsters who take elementary classes in music, dance, art and theater to young adults with hopes of artistic careers.
Along with similar schools in New York -- Greenwich House Music School, Turtle Bay Music School, Third Street Music School Settlement and Brooklyn Music School -- the Harlem School has taken up the slack for the virtual abandonment of arts education in the city's public schools since the mid-1970's.
"The arts programs in the public schools are more or less window dressing," said Darryl Durham, executive director of the Harlem School and a North Carolina-born clarinetist and conductor. "Our work here is much more in-depth."
For example, in addition to taking theory classes, singing in the chorale and taking part in the opera workshop, Mr. Morales Medina receives one-on-one voice lessons, something beyond the resources of even a special public high school like La Guardia. Before the cuts during the fiscal crises of the 1970's and the 1980's recession, most of the 1,100 New York City public schools had at least one art or music teacher. By 1991 two-thirds of the elementary schools had none. In this decade, public school arts programs have gained ground with some major help from private sources, like a $12 million challenge grant from the Annenberg Foundation in 1993, and from public programs like New York City's Project Arts, which provided $75 million over three years. But getting the arts financing and programs into economically deprived neighborhoods has been difficult, and Harlem has historically been one of the least well served.
"We went so many years without arts funding at all," Sharon Dunn, the school system's special assistant to the arts, said recently. "We have come to a new thinking about how to deliver the arts, and partnerships with places like the Harlem School of the Arts are the best way to go."
Indeed, the Harlem School gives special attention to a tuition-free program dating from 1974 called Opportunities for Learning in the Arts. It enables about 225 students in the first through third grades from three neighborhood public schools to study percussion, dance, recitation, the visual arts and scene and monologue writing. Each public school contributes $10,000 to the program, but the Harlem School makes up the rest of the cost, which can be $150,000 annually.
"This is what it means to exist as a community arts organization," Mr. Durham said. "And once these kids get hooked, we have programs to take them further into the disciplines of their choice."
 
Teaching Discipline Through the Arts
Maynor believed that arts education could stimulate a child emotionally and intellectually, teach discipline, cooperation and good behavior, and empower families through a commitment to their children's education. All of the private arts schools in the region share this philosophy.
The fine arts can be a hard sell, especially for families struggling to get by. But for teachers at the Harlem School, many of whom have broken the color line in orchestras and on stages throughout the United States, a more nettlesome challenge is the confounding perception among some members of minorities that the fine arts are elitist.
Betty Allen, 69, the former mezzo-soprano who was executive director of the school for 13 years and is now president emeritus, understands how the elitist stigma came about but finds it dismaying.
"I grew up in a low-income neighborhood in Campbell, Ohio," she said. "The families were mostly of Greek and Sicilian heritage. Walking down the street on Saturday afternoons you would hear the broadcasts of the Metropolitan Opera coming from every window. Nobody told these people that the fine arts were not for poor people like them, just for rich snobs."
It upsets her that any black child would shun the fine arts after all the efforts by black artists to dismantle racial barriers to professional participation. Ms. Allen's first prominent engagement came in 1952 when, at 22, she was chosen for the all-black cast for the New York revival of Virgil Thomson's opera "Four Saints in Three Acts." (Singing a tiny role was a young soprano just out of Juilliard named Leontyne Price.) This was three years before Marian Anderson broke the color line at the Metropolitan Opera.
"You can speak articulately and be black," Ms. Allen said. "You can have a good education and be black. The arts teach timeless disciplines and we practice those disciplines at the school. When a student tells me he wants to study African dance, I tell him, first you must take basic ballet. We don't play pitty-pat here."
 
A Place to Release Emotional Intensity
For Ms. Allen, the best way to win over children to the fine arts is by providing an example of a disciplined, fulfilling artistic life, and, of course, by teaching. She is the artistic director of the Opera Theater Workshop, which recently presented a program of opera scenes in which Mr. Morales Medina took part. She sat right up front in her own row of one watching over her charges, sometimes mouthing silently the words to opera scenes by Handel, Beethoven, Massenet and Menotti.
Many black educators and artists share her belief in the discipline the arts can impart, for one, the playwright and director George C. Wolfe, whose play "The Colored Museum" was being performed by students at the Harlem School the same afternoon that Ms. Allen's opera workshop was presented.
But Mr. Wolfe thinks Ms. Allen and others may be overly worried about the elitist stigma.
"That just comes from some people's small perceptions," he said recently. "Any art form involves discipline, rigor, consistency, passions, all of these skills that also give you a release for your feelings." And as recent events show, he added, "a lot of young people with intense feelings have no place to release them."
Arguing over what it means to be black is pointless, said Mr. Wolfe. "It means 8,000 things at the same time," he said. "I don't place much value on improving other people's false perceptions. It's a waste of time. The more fully I manifest who I am, the more I sharpen other people's perception of what I am."
To Mr. Durham, the simultaneous performances of Mr. Wolfe's play, which "emphasizes African-American culture," and Ms. Allen's opera workshop, which "emphasizes what people would call European or Anglo culture," represented a perfect fulfillment of the Harlem School's mission.
Still, Mr. Durham must deal creatively with the repercussions from false perceptions among his students. "For example, the biggest problem I face as conductor of the orchestra here is trying to keep the interest of over 200 violin students in an instrument that they perceive to be very limited musically," he said. So he started a jazz string ensemble. Recently he conducted a program of Motown hits in his own arrangements and taught the students about the use of string tracks in Motown and other pop music. To fight the stigma among boys that dance is "not a guy thing," Mr. Durham organized an all-male dance class.
Because the Harlem School primarily serves African-American (about 65 percent of the student body) and Latino students (about 33 percent) from low-income neighborhoods, it faces problems realizing its goals. For one, the school must keep fees low and provide ample scholarships, which requires intensive fund-raising because only 15 percent of its $2 million budget comes from tuition.
 
'Something Good Is Happening'
 The irrepressible Ms. Allen is a particularly good fund raiser. "I do it by telephone, and by talking with people from the boards I serve on," she said. These include Carnegie Hall, the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, the New York City Opera, the Theater Development Fund and until recently, Unicef. "Most people sooner or later ask me about the school. Then I tell them to come up and see us. When they watch us interact with the students and see the improvement, they know something good is happening."
On a recent bright Sunday afternoon, Mr. Morales Medina participated for the first time in a presentation of opera scenes offered by the school's Opera Theatre Workshop. Until then his mother had never heard him perform with costumes, choreography and an instrumental ensemble. He sang with the chorus in several scenes and had one aria to himself, "Hush, Be Silent," from "The Fairy Queen" by Purcell.
"My mother's respect is much greater now, which is great," he said. "Singing is what I want to do."
Right now, Mr. Morales Medina doesn't want to hear about the odds against a solo career. But turning out professionals was never the primary goal of the Harlem School. Some students do go on to professional careers. The jazz clarinetist Don Byron is an alumnus, and 14-year-old Kai Braithwaite, who is alternating in the role of Young Simba in "The Lion King" on Broadway, attended the school.
Kevin Maynor another graduate, is a busy operatic bass who will be covering roles in the forthcoming San Francisco Opera production of Wagner's "Ring" cycle.
But Mr. Morales Medina -- Willie Boy, to his friends -- is the kind of student who keeps Mr. Durham excited and optimistic about the school and the community. "If you consider the saying 'It takes a village to raise a child,' " he said, "we are an important part of that village."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Harlem School, music theory for vocalists: from left, Pamela Watson, a teacher; Sandra L. Jones,Willie Boy Morales Medina and Mishonna McCottry. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. E1); Voice and chorale students from the Harlem School get in costume for "An Evening of Opera Scenes," left; Betty Allen, a former mezzo-soprano and president emeritus of the school, watches the performance. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. E4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DURHAM, NC, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: HARLEM SCHOOL OF THE ARTS HARLEM SCHOOL OF THE ARTS (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARLEM SCHOOL OF THE ARTS HARLEM SCHOOL OF THE ARTS (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DURHAM, NC, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CULTURE SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); MUSIC (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); DANCE EDUCATION (70%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); MATCHING GIFTS (62%); 

PERSON: TOMMASINI, ANTHONY LUCIANO PAVAROTTI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



3 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1619 words

HEADLINE: Conrail Chugs Off Into the Sunset;
CSX and Norfolk Southern Take Over

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
The companies about to divvy up the huge Conrail system have certainly tried to do their homework.
They bought extra locomotives, laid hundreds of miles of new track, tested computer systems and settled with a multitude of unions. They hired thousands of Conrail workers and managers and spent long hours teaching them what the future would hold. 
 That future arrives today, as Norfolk Southern and CSX, which already dominate commercial rail traffic in much of the East, take over chunks of Conrail. The switchover will herald the most sweeping change in a generation in the Northeast's commercial railroads -- especially in the New York area.
If the transformation goes smoothly, the effects will be felt far and wide. With more competition, shipping costs should fall, a benefit that could ripple throughout the region's economy in the form of lower prices for all manner of goods. And increased rail traffic could take business from truckers, which would have a marked impact on traffic and pollution.
Some of this bonanza, however, could well come at the expense of commuters. Many commuter lines in the Northeast share tracks with Conrail, and increased commercial traffic could put a squeeze on them -- and increase the risk of snags that would delay everyone. Both railroads have had extensive meetings with local transportation authorities to address these concerns.
At the moment, though, the focus is on the long-awaited transition, and executives at the Norfolk Southern Corporation and the CSX Corporation say they are doing everything they can to make it go smoothly. For no one -- not the railroads, not the thousands of companies that rely on them to ship raw materials and finished products, not the consuming and traveling public -- wants a repeat of the nightmare that followed another recent railroad merger.
After taking over Southern Pacific in 1996, Union Pacific, the nation's largest railroad, was mired in chaos for months, with thousands of rail cars lost or misrouted and its major rail lines clogged with traffic. Shippers faced such frustrating delays that some, in desperation, had to go to Union Pacific's rail yards themselves to search for their goods.
At the height of the debacle, in late 1997, the extra cost to manufacturers, utilities and retailers along the Gulf Coast and on the West Coast ran to an estimated $100 million a month.
Union Pacific did finally manage to restore service to normal, but the experience left many shippers nervous as the joint takeover of Conrail drew near. So a group of companies put pressure on executives of both Norfolk Southern and CSX to meet with Union Pacific executives to try to find out what went wrong and what they could do to avoid a chaotic encore.
"We wanted to make sure they didn't repeat the same mistakes," said Edward H. Rastatter, director of policy at the National Industrial Transportation League, a trade group that represents many of the nation's largest rail shippers.
Before the group would support the takeover, he said, it insisted that the two railroads meet monthly with a group of shippers to report on their progress. The group also urged the railroads to avoid Union Pacific's mistakes by having all labor agreements in place, testing information systems and completing the training of workers and managers well before they began running Conrail themselves.
The top executives of both railroads needed little urging, having seen claims and lawsuits from shippers mount against Union Pacific. They met with executives not just from Union Pacific but also from Burlington Northern Santa Fe, which was formed in a 1995 merger.
"We took extra care," said David R. Goode, the chairman, president and chief executive of Norfolk Southern, which is based in Norfolk, Va., and whose reputation for planning carefully and paying close attention to detail has earned it one of the industry's best safety records.
It was in 1997 that the managements of the two railroads, each of which had sought to take over Conrail for itself, ended their bidding war, realizing that even if one of them prevailed, it would face major antitrust hurdles.
That April, they agreed to buy Conrail jointly for $10.3 billion, with Norfolk Southern getting 58 percent and CSX 42 percent.
But both railroads bided their time before taking over. They also agreed to spend the money to buy new equipment, including locomotives, and to train extra engineers so they would have a reserve if they ran into trouble.
"We've taken longer than we expected," Mr. Goode said.
Michael Ward, an executive vice president at CSX Transportation Inc., the railroad subsidiary of CSX, based in Richmond, said Union Pacific's troubles proved to be an advantage in the transition.
"It made us pause and not rush the savings," he said. "It gave us the patience to do this properly."
The change was a long time coming. Back in 1976, Congress, with much fanfare, created the Government-controlled Consolidated Rail Corporation out of the bankrupt Penn Central Railroad and five other struggling lines in the Northeast.
By the early 1980's -- after a huge infusion of public funds to rebuild its aging trains and tracks, over $7 billion all told, and repeated rounds of cost cutting and job cuts -- the railroad showed stirrings of life.
In this period, various attempts were made to sell Conrail, either to a private company or to the public. Norfolk Southern was once close to a deal, but it lost out when Conrail's unions and managers fought back and forced a sale through a public offering.
The Government's 85 percent stake was finally sold to the public in March 1987 for $1.9 billion, while its unions kept 15 percent. Since then the railroad and its shareholders have prospered, with hefty profits and a sharply rising stock price. It has been a major force in getting shippers to send their freight on intermodal trains -- which carry containers or easily transferable truck trailers -- rather than trucks.
Thus CSX and Norfolk Southern will be dividing up a robust competitor, one that has played a big role in helping sustain some basic industries in the Northeast economy.
A major goal of shippers and other groups in the Northeast was to have two railroads compete for Conrail's customers, and the breakup achieves that.
Cruz Russell, director of policy and planning for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said his agency had favored dividing Conrail to insure "that the region not end up with another monopoly."
He said the agency and other groups were also able to persuade both railroads to help revive some rail service in the various marine terminals in the port of New York.
Right now there is practically no way to get goods across New York Harbor except by truck or barge. A short line called the New York Cross Harbor railroad has reached an agreement with Norfolk Southern to help it build up the use of barges, which will move containers from rail cars between the Greenville yards in Jersey City and the Red Hook section of Brooklyn.
Also, some tracks on Staten Island's North Shore Line are being restored with the help of the New York City Economic Development Corporation. This will enable containers to be moved by rail, by both railroads, between New Jersey and docks in Staten Island. It will also link the docks with trains that can go anywhere in the nation.
The New York region now lags behind other major cities and ports in moving freight by rail. But these changes, Mr. Russell said, will help change that. Huge containers now moved by truck will soon be carried by rail, easing road congestion and lowering costs.
Some shippers have already seen their rates fall by about 5 percent, he added, as the two railroads compete to sign up customers.
Mr. Ward, of CSX, estimated that of Conrail's $3.5 billion in annual revenues, about $1 billion came from what the railroads term "jump-ball customers" -- which, because of track layout, could theoretically be served by either railroad.
The two rivals have been fast off the mark. Between them, he estimated, their sales staffs have signed up shippers representing about 80 percent of that $1 billion by offering discounts of roughly 6 to 8 percent. And in the push to compete with trucking, many others could get discounts, too.
Even after such rate cuts, he said, the railroads will be able to turn a profit. That would be good news for stockholders, since both railroads added greatly to their debt load to buy Conrail. CSX stock is roughly where it was two years ago, while Norfolk Southern shares are up slightly. CSX closed at $46.9375 on Friday, and Norfolk Southern closed at $32.875.
One big change is that with more extensive track networks, both railroads will offer more routes on which a single train can make the whole journey -- from, say, Atlanta to Chicago or Bangor, Me.
While containers generally arrive about a day later by rail than if they were moved by truck, the rates offered by railroads are about 15 percent lower, creating a strong incentive to switch.
Even though Conrail did provide some competition for trucks, in many cases "there will be competitive service where none existed before," said Tom Finkbiner, the vice president for intermodal trains for Norfolk Southern.
There has been little outcry from truckers, and some, seeing rate cuts as inevitable, are even cooperating with railroads.
Meanwhile, everyone has been poised for today, when one of the most complex transitions in railroad history will take place.
"We're satisfied that they have done a superhuman effort of planning," Mr. Rastatter of the transportation trade group said. "We're waiting with our fingers crossed."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of the new locomotives CSX has bought in preparation for its acquisition of 42 percent of Conrail. (Kelly LaDuke for The New York Times)
 
Table: "Divvying Up the Spoils"
CSX and Norfolk Southern agreed to divide Conrail, with Norfolk Southern getting 58 percent, after a lengthy bidding war for the entire company. Table outlines changes in the two companies after the acquisitions. (Sources: The companies)
 
Map shows division of Conrail lines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (94%); NSC (NYSE) (85%); UNP (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (94%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (94%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (94%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (85%); NAICS484110 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LOCAL (85%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONRAIL (CONSOLIDATED RAIL CORP); CSX CORP; NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP CSX CORP (94%); NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP (85%); UNION PACIFIC CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONRAIL (CONSOLIDATED RAIL CORP); CSX CORP; NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMMUTING; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RETAILERS (68%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



4 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
A little-known way to profit by playing yen against dollars is again tempting the risk takers.

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer 

 BODY:
ONE of the main culprits in the global financial crisis of 1997 is sneaking back into the financial markets.
The spread between Japanese and higher American interest rates has recently been widening, tempting speculators to borrow yen at bargain-basement prices, convert them to dollars and invest them in United States Treasury bills. The idea is to sell the bills later on, pocket most of the interest payments and then repay the low-interest yen debt. 
 If the yen does not turn against the borrower -- and most forecasts are saying that it will not -- it is an easy, if perhaps esoteric way to make money.
But the play, known as a "carry trade," has not caught fire yet the way it did two years ago, traders and analysts say, in part because speculators are still smarting from their losses after it backfired in 1997 and again in 1998.
If this bet does go mainstream again, though, it could weaken the yen and buoy the United States bond market, helping keep interest rates lower than they would otherwise be.
Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company, argues that if the yen carry trade does catch on again, it could make the Federal Reserve's goal of slowing economic growth here more difficult. "The yen carry trade shows that global capital flows can be at odds with domestic economic circumstances," he said.
The key to the trade -- besides a large enough difference in interest rates -- is the performance of the currency that the borrowing is done in. It has to remain stable or weaken against the currency that the bonds are bought in. If the borrowing currency suddenly rallies, the cost of paying off the loan rises. A sharp currency rally can quickly make the carry trade a big loser.
In 1997, Asian investors took low-interest loans in yen or dollars and invested at higher rates at home, for example, in Thailand. Last year, the carry trade was focused on borrowing in Japanese yen and investing in United States Treasuries.
But when the yen suddenly rallied against the dollar and other Asian currencies in May 1997, that carry trade blew up in the speculators' faces. The rush to get out involved the selling of local currencies, like the Thai baht, to convert to yen and dollars to pay off the loans. And that selling marked the beginning of the rush that forced the devaluation of the Thai currency in July, which in turn marked the beginning of the Asian, and eventually broader, financial crisis.
Last year, speculators began to get out of the yen carry trade as the Russian financial crisis came to a head in August. The flight accelerated after the near-collapse of Long-Term Capital Management, the American hedge fund. The selling of dollars to buy yen and pay off the yen loans helped send the yen soaring 29 percent against the dollar in two months. After that the interest-rate spread narrowed, closing the door on the carry trade.
But in the last two months, the spread between American and Japanese interest rates has widened again -- to a high of 4.42 percentage points on 10-year notes, a big enough difference to make the strategy attractive once more. With yields that much higher in this country, as long as the yen does not significantly strengthen against the dollar, it will be very profitable to borrow in Japan and invest the proceeds in the bond market here.
"There is no question that it is now the time to put the trade back on," said Jeremy P. Fand, senior foreign exchange strategist at BankBoston. Yet he said he did not think there are nearly as many bets on now as there were in 1998.
One reason for this reluctance, in addition to the memory of recent losses, is that market players realize there is much more risk of an adverse currency move. In 1997, for example, the Thai baht's value was pegged to the dollar, making the trade appear much less risky. In contrast, given the sharp fluctuations of the yen against the dollar over the last year, the currency risks are much greater. The yen, after falling 8.6 percent this year, has gained almost 3 percent in the last week and a half, trading on foreign spot markets late yesterday around 121.50 to the dollar.
Another factor is investors' wariness about the prospects for emerging markets and United States stock markets in the wake of the Federal Reserve's announcement that it would now lean toward a policy of higher interest rates. With stock selloffs still fresh in their minds, some traders may be reducing their exposure to risky bets, including the yen carry trade.
James Kemp, the head of foreign-exchange sales and trading for North America at Citigroup, suggested that the yen's recent rise reflected this cautiousness. "People are in risk-reduction mode," he said.
A strategist at a prominent hedge fund, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, agreed. "People are playing, but they are taking their profits right away," the strategist said, adding, "That is why you are going to see a lot of spikes up and down in the yen."
Still, the rally in the yen could set up another run into the carry trade. While the interest rate spread has narrowed a little, to 4.17 percentage points on Friday, the last day of bond trading before yesterday's holiday, the yen, many forecasters think, is most likely to reverse course, weakening to a level of perhaps 130 to the dollar. And if that turns out to be true, the lure of the yen carry trade could prove irresistible. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: HOENIG & CO INC (68%); HOENIG & CO LTD (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



5 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Russian Arrears Deepening On Debts to Foreign Group

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 31

 BODY:
On Wednesday, Russia will default on roughly $900 million in interest payments on debt it owes the so-called London Club, a group of major foreign banks and investors that lent money to commercial entities of the former Soviet Union.
Reneging on debt may be a grave transgression, but most London Club lenders have shown little rancor or surprise at Russia's failure to pay. 
 Although a splinter group of United States creditors is threatening to sue Russia, the London Club as a whole seems hesitant to act. It could restructure the debt with the Russians, or it could get tough and call in the full amount, accelerating a default. Yet because of a host of considerations, the creditors have instead chosen to look the other way as Russia falls deeper into arrears.
"What's likely to happen after June 2 is that Russia will remain in default and not get called on it," Charles Blitzer, the chief international economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said.
When its economy collapsed last August, Russia unilaterally annulled obligations on a range of debt, including a default on $40 billion of treasury bills. Besides its own loans, Russia had also inherited the former Soviet Union's debts to foreign governments and private lenders. After the crisis, Russia said it would honor foreign debt it had accumulated after the fall of the Soviet Union, which includes Eurobonds, loans from the International Monetary Fund and a few other instruments. But the Russian Government maintained that it lacked the resources to pay the Soviet debt.
In fact, the June 2 default surprises few people because Russia is already in arrears on $300 million it owed the London Club in December 1998. All told, Russia has fallen behind on about $1.2 billion of about $30 billion in Soviet-era debt it owes the London Club.
When Russia did not pay last year, that debt was automatically rolled over under the terms of its London Club contract. But some creditors also called for a vote to accelerate default, which means the whole sum comes due immediately. That measure failed, but it is likely that a newly formed association of investment funds, the United States-based Russia London Club Portfolio Managers Inc., may again demand such a vote once a 15-day grace period passes after the June 2 deadline.
"I think the commercial banks in the London Club are mistaken about the sentiment among creditors this time," said Marc Helie, managing director of the New York investment management firm Gramercy Advisors and chairman of the association, whose members hold about 10 percent to 15 percent of the total London Club debt. "I think now many other creditors will vote for an acceleration of default."
Whatever the outcome of the vote, the emergence of the investor association alone shows how fractured the London Club is, which may help explain its hesitancy over Russia. About half of those holding London Club debt are investment funds, according to Mr. Helie. Yet the bank steering committee that actually negotiates with the Russians is drawn from major lenders like Deutsche Bank A.G., J. P. Morgan & Company and Merrill Lynch & Company. Mr. Helie and others say that because these banks want future business with Russia, they may be unwilling to pressure the Government on the London Club arrears.
"The London Club has objectives beyond Soviet debt, such as bilateral debt, underwriting of new securities, all of which would tend to dilute their focus on these debt securities," Mr. Helie said.
The varied business goals of the creditors and their access to the Russians themselves affect how they view Russia's ability to pay. Some argue that Russia could pay, at least partly, but is unwilling to, because it knows that for the time being it can get away with delaying tactics. They note that in mid-May, Russia scraped together about $330 million in interest on bonds issued against another package of Soviet-era debt. But those bonds are held mainly by Russian investors.
Yet others on the steering committee who are in regular contact with the Russians say Moscow wants to pay but cannot, which necessitates patience. "Russia has been paying its debts incurred since 1992, but only by borrowing from the Central Bank," one London Club banker said. Russia's hard currency reserves are about $11 billion now. "It shows you that they have no further funds to pay old debts," the banker said.
The London Club is forming a subcommittee to do the preliminary economic research to begin talks with Russia on restructuring, tentatively scheduled for late June. Russian officials have said repeatedly that they would like 75 percent of their debt forgiven, which is unlikely. In fact, some observers think the London Club should stay in its holding pattern, without restructuring or calling a default, until the Russian presidential elections in mid-2000.
"This isn't the right time to get into serious negotiations, because there won't be a stable government until there's a new president," Mr. Blitzer said. "The London Club is best advised to agree to nothing and wait." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: LONDON CLUB CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONDON CLUB INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEFAULTING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TRENDS (69%); EUROBONDS (64%); 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA JOHN MAJOR (73%); MARC HELIE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



6 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Quick Recovery Undercuts South Korea's Quest to Bail Out Banks

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, May 31

 BODY:
South Korea's efforts to enlist foreign capital and expertise in an overhaul of its rickety financial system have become bogged down in, of all things, the country's stunning recovery from economic crisis.
Today, the Financial Supervisory Commission, the financial watchdog charged with cleaning up South Korea's debt-laden financial institutions, announced that it had extended negotiations over the final terms of the sale of Seoul Bank to HSBC Holdings P.L.C. until June 30. 
 "Both parties agreed that more time was needed, as due diligence of the bank took longer than initially expected," the commission said in a statement, referring to the need for the buyer to do more research.
The tortured negotiations stand in stark contrast to the rest of the optimistic news sweeping the country and are thus fast shaping up as a litmus test of the Government's resolve to continue to push reform now that pressure in the form of imminent economic collapse, a sinking currency and a crashing stock market has faded.
The commission also delayed for a third time the sale of Korea First Bank to a group of investors led by Newbridge Capital Ltd., a private equity group backed by two United States financiers, David Bonderman and Richard C. Blum.
Both banks were nationalized as part of a $57 billion bailout by the International Monetary Fund in December 1997 when Korea teetered on the brink of default.
Conditions have changed markedly since then. Today, Korea's economy is growing beyond all expectations, and its stock market hits post-crisis highs nearly every day, as foreign investors register their approval of the Government's reform efforts.
"The economy is improving, people are feeling better and the sense of urgency is not as great," said Jeffrey D. Jones, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Korea.
What is more, Mr. Jones said, the economic improvements do in fact reduce the need for foreign capital, although Korea is still eager to obtain it. "When you don't see that sense of urgency, that can be seen as a step back," he said.
Maintaining the drive to change ways of doing business that are decades old, however, is critical, not only in Korea but across Asia. Japan's seemingly intractable economic decline stands as a stark reminder of the perils of staving off the problems rather than moving aggressively to eradicate them.
"It's maybe the biggest challenge Korea in particular and the rest of Asia in general faces, not lapsing back," said Wilbur Ross, a high-profile turnaround strategist at Rothschild Inc. He was recently appointed by the Korean Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy as the "Honorary Economic Ambassador" to the APEC Investment Mart being held in Seoul this week, an offshoot of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum that is aimed at enticing foreign investors to Asia.
He remains bullish on the region, as he will demonstrate in a speech to the conference tomorrow that will stress the importance of following up capital enhancements to financial systems with a complete overhaul of management practices.
Nonetheless, Mr. Ross, like many other foreign executives who have shuttled between their home countries and South Korea over the last year, said he had definitely encountered changes in attitude among people there. "The first place you see it is in the cab drivers," he said. "They're more abrupt, less courteous than a few months ago."
In other words, at least in so far as the demeanor of cabbies is any indicator, there has been a pronounced swing back to old habits.
There may be some political motivation for today's delays. Parliamentary elections are coming up on Friday, and the Government is afraid of a public backlash against the ruling party should it conclude the deals before voters go to the polls.
The Financial Supervisory Commission has spent 43.9 trillion won of taxpayer money (about $37 billion) so far to recapitalize financial institutions, and politicians from the ruling party are worried that voters will be shocked to see how comparatively little money the Government gets for the two banks.
The delays, however, raise the taxpayers' bill. After it postponed the deal for Korea First, the Government was forced to put in another $2.5 billion of capital -- in addition to the intangible costs of dampening investor sentiment.
Both bank deals have foundered over price, with the Government insisting that the banks' assets are worth more than the prospective buyers are willing to consider. However, Mr. Jones said that he believed that HSBC's acquisition of Seoul Bank would ultimately be completed.
And earlier this month, price scuttled a deal for Korea Life Insurance, which the commission was trying to sell to a foreign buyer. Metropolitan Life, the big American insurer, spent several months and roughly $2 million poring over the books only to conclude that the Government would never entertain a bid at a price Metropolitan Life considered reasonable, according to one person familiar with the situation.
Axa, a large French insurance company, apparently came to the same conclusion. Neither company even tendered an offer.
"A lot of foreign buyers came to Korea at a very early stage, talked to companies when they were at the very bottom and walked away with plans to buy that were bargains," said Kristine Li, an analyst who follows Korean banks for Lehman Brothers in Hong Kong. "But Korea has recovered so quickly, just in the last four months, and everything, including the perception of the values of assets, has changed quickly, too."
Although its efforts to lure foreign capital into the banking system have been delayed, the Financial Supervisory Commission has pushed through extensive changes in the financial system. Banks are cutting up to 30 percent of their employees, and the number of banks has shrunk to 17, from 27. About 20 percent of bank branches are being phased out, and new managers are gradually entering the top ranks of decision makers. "I don't think any other country has done or could do as much as they have in terms of cleaning up the banking system," Ms. Li said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (84%); HSB (PAR) (84%); HBC (NYSE) (84%); 0005 (HKSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: NORTHERN ASIA (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

COMPANY: SEOUL BANK; HSBC HOLDINGS PLC HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (84%); ROTHSCHILD INC (60%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEOUL BANK; HSBC HOLDINGS PLC INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; NORTHERN ASIA (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; STOCKS AND BONDS BAILOUTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); MERCHANT BANKING (76%); NATIONALIZATION (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); TRENDS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); APPROVALS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); BONDS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE DAVID BONDERMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



7 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Drawing Plans for Tomorrow's Landmarks

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
ARCHITECTURE is an old man's game," said David M. Childs, 58. "You've got to go convince somebody to spend half a billion dollars to do something you want to do. So they like gray hair. Or no hair, in my case."
Whatever it is -- the hair, the age, the combination of political skills with what critics are calling the finest work of his career -- Mr. Childs is at this moment the man transforming the skyline of New York City with some of the most important buildings of this generation. 
 He is the architect for no less than the new Pennsylvania Station, the new New York Stock Exchange, the new Columbus Circle and part of the new Times Square. And while other architects, like Frank Gehry and Robert Venturi, are more famous, Mr. Childs is in many ways more powerful because of his enormous firm, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, and his control over the kind of era-defining projects that everyone is watching.
"It's an extraordinary moment," he said last week in Skidmore's New York office, a sleek white space 25 floors above Wall Street. "You're sort of lucky to be alive."
Mr. Childs seemed only a tad deflated by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's boycott of the ceremony unveiling the Penn Station designs two weeks ago. "I worry about the architecture," Mr. Childs said. (Mr. Giuliani skipped the event, attended by President Clinton, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Gov. George E. Pataki, with whom the Mayor is squabbling, saying he was skeptical of its cost and scope. His complaints are unlikely to jeopardize the $484 million project, which is about $134 million short of its estimated cost.)
Mr. Childs is instead focusing on the largely rave reviews for his plan to remodel the General Post Office on Eighth Avenue -- built across the street from the old Penn Station by McKim, Mead & White in 1913 -- and add a soaring metal and glass roof that reflects both the original station and the late 20th century. Herbert Muschamp in The New York Times called the architecture "superb"; Paul Goldberger in The New Yorker said it was "nearly as brilliant" as Mr. Gehry's Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain.
Meanwhile, Mr. Childs is just beginning the drawings for the new stock exchange, to be built across the street from the current one, and is to break ground by the end of this year on the Columbus Circle project, twin towers that will house the headquarters for Time Warner, a Jazz at Lincoln Center performance hall, retail shops and condominiums.
How can he do all these projects at once? Mr. Childs smiled. "Very awkward question," he said. "You're not one of my clients, are you?"
Mr. Childs, who has a charming, understated and reassuring style that obviously works wonders with government officials, spent the first years of his life in New Jersey, where his father was a classics professor at Princeton, and then moved to Washington where his father became, as Mr. Childs put it cheerfully, "a spook." During World War II, the elder Mr. Childs joined the Office of Strategic Services, the precursor to the Central Intelligence Agency, and later worked for the C.I.A. "We weren't particularly close," Mr. Childs said.
WHEN Mr. Childs was about 10, his parents divorced, and he moved with his mother to Mount Kisco, in Westchester County. Mr. Childs went to prep school at Deerfield and then entered Yale as a premed student majoring in zoology. About the time he realized that "I liked drawing the frog I was dissecting more than learning the names of the veins," he took Vincent Scully's History of Architecture course, but merely to fulfill a requirement.
"He's the one who changed my life," Mr. Childs said, still marveling at the wonders of the course. "It just opened up a world to me." Mr. Childs went on to the Yale School of Architecture, then landed at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill in Washington, where he helped redesign Pennsylvania Avenue, the Mall and the renovation of train stations along the Northeast Corridor.
"We did virtually nothing in New York," he said. "It was just this black hole."
In 1984 he moved to New York, where he lives on the Upper East Side. (He is married with grown children.) He designed the Bertelsmann Building in Times Square and the Worldwide Plaza development at Eighth Avenue and 50th Street, but spent much time with projects in other countries, particularly when the city's economics were bad. "Many of us were moving around the world while this city was dead," he said. "So it's nice to be here."
Now Mr. Childs says New York is in a golden age of building, similar to the one near the last turn of the century, when Penn Station and Grand Central Terminal were born. But while he thinks the renovation of Grand Central "is great," it would be "kind of sad if the one thing we can do at the end of the century is to repeat the dreams of a century ago."
Because: "When you deal with things like Penn Station, the stock exchange and Columbus Circle, you're building the fabric of the city itself -- the great rooms of the mansion. Building a city is like a long piece of music, and you have a moment to sing you note."
As an architect, he added, "you sort of work your way up from your mother's porch to somebody's wing to your first building."
And now, New York. "I'm just beginning," he said. "This is it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David M. Childs, principal architect for the new Pennsylvania Station. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (69%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; ARCHITECTURE; PENNSYLVANIA STATION (NYC); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER) ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (79%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: BUMILLER, ELISABETH; CHILDS, DAVID FRANK GEHRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



8 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Owner Has Big Dreams for a Newark Motel With a Seedy Past

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER 

DATELINE: NEWARK, May 29

 BODY:
For years, the Lincoln Motel was the scene of the crime, famous for its short stays and constant mentions in police reports.
"Everything went on in there, everything," said John J. O'Reilly, the former Warren County Prosecutor, who worked as a public defender in Newark in the late 1970's. "You had prostitution, allegations of armed robbery, allegations of rape. You had homicides. You name it, they had it." 
 But the Lincoln is on the verge of a startling transformation. As downtown Newark struggles back to life, the Lincoln's owner wants to change the old motel from a seedy haunt where pimps and prostitutes once worked (and now a place where the homeless are sheltered) to a modern inn where baseball fans and business travelers can spend the night.
The motel sits in what was once an isolated stretch of town where drug deals and violent scuffles were as regular as the highway traffic passing on the nearby interstate.
But all of that is sure to change, said Miles P. Berger, who has owned the Lincoln since 1976. With a minor league baseball stadium going up not more than 1,000 feet from the motel's door and the New Jersey Performing Arts Center just around the corner, Mr. Berger believes the time is right to invest in Newark's tourist trade.
"Other than the Robert Treat Hotel and the Hilton Gateway," Mr. Berger said, "there aren't any hotels in central Newark that cater to travelers and tourists. This area is really changing fast, and there's demand like never before for real estate, especially for hotel rooms."
The building that became the Lincoln was erected in 1966 as a Holiday Inn and was pleasant -- and cheap -- enough that many reporters chose it over the older, grander Robert Treat as a base for covering the Newark riots in 1967.
But after the riots, as the city's economy failed, travelers began to stay at the hotels springing up at Newark International Airport, and the Lincoln fell into disrepair. It had closed by the time Mr. Berger bought it for the rock-bottom price of $500,000.
He cleaned up the second-floor ballroom, recarpeted some of the 200 rooms and chose the name Lincoln because local historians told him that Abraham Lincoln had once delivered a speech as President at the train station across the street. Despite the occasional incident -- "Yes, there were arrests," Mr. Berger said -- he insisted that the motel has always been clean, had telephones and televisions in every room and drew a bustling business from local highway traffic, particularly on weekends, for several years.
All of which has not stopped Newark law enforcement officials from remembering a different sort of place.
Mr. O'Reilly said that so many crimes were committed at the Lincoln that the Public Defender's office kept a floor plan of the building tacked to the wall, and lawyers would cross off the rooms with a pen as cases were cleared.
"We actually called it the Wall of Shame," he said. "It was an exhibit you needed preparing for trial. As in, 'So what room did this one happen in? 203? Oh yeah, there it is. Right near the stairs.' "
In the late 1980's, in an arrangement with the city, Mr. Berger converted the Lincoln from a commercial property to a welfare hotel that still serves as a residence of last resort for about 130 of Newark's homeless. Though it earns him about $1,000 a month per person, he said that housing the homeless has sometimes added to disturbances in the halls.
The motel became the focus of an interstate feud in the early 1980's when the Koch administration, faced with an excess of homeless people in New York City, sent hundreds of indigent families to the Lincoln and other New Jersey motels, drawing accusations that they were dumping the poor on New Jersey.
Even today, haggard men and women sit on the curb beneath the stately marquee portrait of Honest Abe, sipping from brown paper bags and mulling over problems at the Lincoln, which they say include the immovable iron bars on the motel's windows and the indifferent security guards.
Most of the current residents have been living at the Lincoln for six months or less and know of its unseemly past only second- or third-hand. But they have stories of their own about rampant drug dealing in the hallways and AIDS victims dying alone in their rooms at night.
"I know a couple of people who have died in there of overdoses, too," said Sam Taylor, 31. "Aside from that, fights is about all you get. I did go down the hallway once and see a trail of blood."
When the motel closes for renovation in the next few months, Mr. Taylor and the other residents will be relocated by the city, but no one is certain yet where they will go. Pamela Goldstein, a city spokeswoman, said they would be sent to one of Newark's other shelters.
One resident, who identified himself only as Earl, said he was certain that he and the others would end up at one of Mr. Berger's other welfare hotels. "He owns the Lincoln, the Carlton and another one called the Lincoln in East Orange, too," Earl said.
Mr. Berger said he and city officials were discussing where to send the residents. But for the moment, he said, he is busy organizing the Lincoln's renaissance.
The plan is to gut the structure, install new furnishings, revive the swimming pool, restore the second-floor ballroom and reopen the motel as a franchise operation, possibly for Holiday Inn, Mr. Berger said. He could be no more specific than to say that it would happen within the next five months and that "the end is near."
In all of this, he is betting that Newark's days of severe poverty and mayhem have subsided -- and by many measures he is right.
The crime rate here has plummeted. Last year, the city posted a 30-year low in the number of reported rapes, burglaries and auto thefts, and in 1997 there were fewer homicides than in any other year since 1967.
There is also the real estate boomlet started by the Performing Arts Center and spurred by the stadium, which the city and Essex County, working together, hope to finish as early as this July. Plans are also under way for a new downtown arena for the New Jersey Nets and a public park along the Passaic River.
All of this has Mr. Berger in an optimistic mood. But some of those who remember the Lincoln's notorious past seem almost attached to its sordidness and feel a bit nostalgic.
"Had the Lincoln Motel never existed, it probably would have reduced the crime rate in the entire city of Newark," said Vincent Nuzzi, a defense lawyer who was first assistant Essex County prosecutor from 1981 to 1986. "But I hope it does become a place where baseball fans can go to watch the Newark Bears. It was so infamous it deserves to make a comeback."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Lincoln Motel in Newark, once frequented by prostitutes and now sheltering the homeless, will soon be closed for extensive renovations. The owner is betting that the time is right to invest in Newark's tourist trade.
(Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (85%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: LINCOLN MOTEL (NEWARK, NJ) O'REILLY HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT LLC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN MOTEL (NEWARK, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; PROSTITUTION; HOMELESS PERSONS CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (78%); RIOTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PROSTITUTION (76%); BASEBALL (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); ROBBERY (71%); SPORTS FANS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (67%); TOURISM (66%); HISTORY (60%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (51%); AIRPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: FEUER, ALAN; BERGER, MILES P MILES P BERGER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



9 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1812 words

HEADLINE: No Room to Grow;
With a Squeeze on Industrial Space, Some Companies Look Outside the City

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
There can be a down side to living in a boom time, as Neil A. Mazzella has discovered.
Business is indeed booming for Mr. Mazzella, the president of Hudson Scenic Studio, which builds sets for Broadway shows. There is a constant bustle in the big building in the Hunts Point section of the Bronx where some of his 127 employees are carving, painting, welding, polishing, assembling, sawing, wiring and programming computers. 
 Across the floor stretches a sliver of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge for the Broadway version of "Saturday Night Fever." Off to one side, Cheryl Stewart is carving two griffins for a road show of "Beauty and the Beast." The sparkling ball that drops in Times Square on New Year's Eve lies in pieces on the floor; Mr. Mazzella is constructing the millennial version, which will be made of Waterford crystal.
The place is bursting at the seams -- and therein lies the problem. Despite spending two years -- and thousands of dollars -- Mr. Mazzella has been unable to find space in the Bronx into which he can expand. Imagine it: no room in the Bronx, where a couple of years ago "you couldn't give space away," said Joseph P. Meyerson, the managing director of Sholom & Zuckerbrot Realty.
And it is not just the Bronx. Industrial companies around the city, long under siege on many fronts, say real estate problems are squeezing them out of New York City and into Westchester County or New Jersey. Real estate worries "figure more prominently in the minds of manufacturers than taxes," said Adam Friedman, the executive director of the New York Industrial Retention Network, which just released a survey of city manufacturers.
In Queens, the vacancy rates for industrial spaces have been tumbling, and rents have been rising. In Brooklyn, the Greenpoint Manufacturing and Design Center has been full for more than a year and has stopped keeping a waiting list.
And in Manhattan, home to many of the city's quarter of a million manufacturing jobs, there is so much demand for space for offices, apartments and stores that rents are soaring and buildings are being converted at a rapid clip.
Just ask Bo Parsons, who moved his bakery to Greenwich Street in TriBeCa in 1983.
"We paid $1,000 a month for 5,000 square feet, and they were so happy to have a tenant," he said. Now the bakery, Umanoff & Parsons, finds itself in one of the hottest neighborhoods in Manhattan, and its industrial building is turning into fancy co-op lofts, as have others nearby.
Meanwhile, the company, which has 42 employees, is growing rapidly and needs more space. One deal, to lease a space near the Holland Tunnel, fell apart when the rent went from $6 a square foot to $30 or so, he said. Now he is looking in Brooklyn and Queens.
This space squeeze is not unprecedented; there was a similar situation during the economic boom of the mid-1980's. But there are significant differences this time around, in both the economy and in city policies.
Not only does manufacturing show signs of stabilizing and, in some cases, growing, but new kinds of businesses are proliferating in the city. Jobs in start-up companies jumped to 31,000 in 1998 from 23,000 in 1994, said Frank Lourenso, an executive vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank. "These are high-value jobs in areas like in new media, which will pay higher rents," he said.
And there is simply less industrial space available, because so many buildings have been turned into apartments or offices. While the changes have been most noticeable in lower Manhattan, "there's been widespread loft conversion" in industrial areas of Brooklyn, said David Sweeney, chief executive of the Greenpoint center, which houses furniture makers and craftsmen.
The city used to have a program that taxed loft conversions; the money went to help displaced businesses pay to move to another location within the five boroughs. But the program expired in 1997 and was not renewed.
And no new industrial space has been developed, said Jonathan Bowles, the research director for the Center for an Urban Future, a Manhattan think tank that is about to release a report on the space problems faced by small businesses. Much of the vacant land in New York is owned by the city government, he said.
"One of the biggest tragedies is that the city hasn't gotten behind helping to develop these parcels, and many say it is dragging its feet," Mr. Bowles said. "Once the economy turns south, it will not be possible, so now is the time to do this."
Such criticism irks the Giuliani administration, which credits its policies with helping to stabilize manufacturing employment in the city. "As an administration, we have focused on ways to improve things by lowering taxes, improving city services and safety, lessening regulation and having a robust metropolitan economy," said Joseph B. Rose, the chairman of the City Planning Commission. "It has worked. Companies are doing well."
Although some kinds of space are always in short supply in New York, Mr. Rose said, "There is no basis to conclude that the lack of general space" is putting pressure on manufacturing. He disputed the need for areas devoted solely to manufacturing, saying that such businesses do best in mixed areas; different kinds of businesses competing for space, he said, signals a healthy city economy.
Some business people complain that the city is more interested in giving big breaks to major outfits like the stock exchanges than in assisting smaller companies. Charles Millard, who until last week was the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said such criticism is unfair. "We give more in benefits per job to small manufacturers than to large companies," he said, adding that the number of companies that the corporation has assisted with financing has risen sharply in the last four years.
There are fewer manufacturing jobs in the city than there were a decade ago; in 1985, there were about 407,700 such jobs, according to the New York State Department of Labor, while in 1998 there were fewer than 271,000.
But some businesses have found profitable niches and have the capacity to expand rapidly, said Sara Garretson, the executive director of the Industrial Technology Assistance Corporation, a nonprofit group that has identified 900 small companies in the city that are growing faster than the national average.
"It's very exciting, but then we lose them when they get a critical mass and can't find space to expand," she said. "Boom, they're across the river" in New Jersey.
That is what is happening to the Bruno Ravioli Company, which has been making pasta in Manhattan for a century. The company now has five stores in the city and is adding a new shop in Gramercy Park that will open in the fall, said James J. Puliatte, who owns the company with Glen Z. Rassam.
But the manufacturing part of the business, which has long been on Ninth Avenue at 45th Street, is moving to a new plant and store in Hackensack, N.J., in July, he said. "It's more affordable -- a bigger space for less money," Mr. Puliatte said, adding that about half of the 10 workers will be moving to New Jersey. Bruno will keep its retail operation on Ninth Avenue, but the manufacturing space will become a store selling housewares.
Some manufacturers say that the city's economic rebound has passed them by. "Times are supposed to be really good, and I guess they are if you have a large amount of money in the stock market," said Marshall Futterman, the president of the Gotham Pen Company, which makes customized pens in special colors. "Times are no good for any manufacturer I know of."
Mr. Futterman, who has been in the pen business for 20 years, has been in the same location on 20th Street in Chelsea for more than a decade. But his landlord wanted to increase his $6,000-a-month rent by $800 a month. Finding a new space has been tough, especially because it needed to be a reasonable commute for his 20 employees, most of whom live in the Bronx.
"For two years, I spent my Sundays driving around under the els looking for places," he said. Now, he is negotiating for a space in the Bathgate section of the Bronx.
But businesses that require really large spaces are having the most trouble. Many of these are not manufacturers, but wholesalers and distributors, like Marjam Supply Company, which was founded in Brooklyn in 1979. Since then, the company, which sells and delivers construction materials, has added eight other locations -- but none of them are in New York City, said James Ortega, who is in charge of the company's location searches.
"We would give our left foot to be in the Bronx," Mr. Ortega said, adding that the company has also been searching in Brooklyn, to no avail.
Mr. Ortega spotted a site off the Cross Bronx Expressway -- but some of the land is owned or leased by state and city agencies, and putting together a deal has been complicated.
And Mr. Ortega's frustrations pale beside those of Michael Nash, the president of Imperial Bag and Paper, which distributes grocery bags, meat trays, deli containers and the like. Though he has 95,000 square feet in Hunts Point, Mr. Nash's buildings are overflowing, he said, and he needs a minimum of 130,000 square feet.
He thought he had finally found it, in an old Alexander's warehouse on Tiffany Street in Hunts Point. It has 400,000 square feet and has been empty for years. With two other companies to split it -- including Hudson Scenic -- he figured the deal would work perfectly.
But the city's Industrial Development Agency would not help the companies buy the place (when companies sell bonds through the city, they pay a lower interest rate). The former owner of the warehouse had a criminal record, and the city did not want to be involved in a transaction that would give him money, according to several people involved in the proposed deal.
So Mr. Nash is moving to Bayonne, N.J., and taking with him his 135 jobs, which pay an average salary of $63,000 a year. He is hoping that the good pay will lead most of his employees to go with him. "I've told my people that if they are willing to move, I would foot the bill," he said.
As for Mr. Mazzella of Hudson Scenic, after the Tiffany Street deal fell through, he decided to move his operation to Yonkers; the deal is set to close next week. By converting an old plastics factory, he will get 73,000 square feet, versus the 49,000 he has today, and he will be able to own his own building, rather than lease.
But after 18 years in the Bronx, he is sad to leave -- and a little frustrated. He is not sure city officials, who he says have done a good job at things like cutting crime, think keeping him in the city really matters.
"I guess when you do a good job at some things, other things get lost in the shuffle," Mr. Mazzella said. "And guys like me got lost."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A boom has left some New York City companies looking to expand. The manufacturing side of Bruno Ravioli, above, will move to New Jersey. Neil Mazzella, at top with the old New Year's Eve ball, will move Hudson Scenic Studio to Yonkers. Left, Cheryl Stewart at work at Hudson Scenic. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Michael Nash, the president of Imperial Bag and Paper, thought he had found a way to keep his business in the Bronx. But with the deal having fallen through, his company and its 135 jobs are heading to Bayonne, N.J. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK INDUSTRIAL RENTENTION NETWORK WATERFORD CRYSTAL USA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK INDUSTRIAL RENTENTION NETWORK

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; OFFICE BUILDINGS; HOUSING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RENTING AND LEASING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); TRENDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (72%); BAKERIES (69%); RETAILERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE NEIL A MAZZELLA (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



10 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Clinton Says Aftermath Will Be Europe's Burden
President Clinton said in a Memorial Day address that Europe would contribute most of the peacekeeping force and would pay most of the cost of rebuilding Yugoslavia. NATO military leaders were expected to finish planning for a peacekeeping force at a meeting in Belgium today. A1
 
NATO continued air strikes across Yugoslavia, despite signs that President Slobodan Milosevic might be prepared to negotiate. NATO jets carried out strikes against Yugoslav units that NATO said were trying to repel an offensive by the Kosovo Liberation Army along Kosovo's southwestern border. A12
 
NATO air attacks killed at least 16 civilians and wounded 43 when four missiles hit a hospital complex in the town Surdulica. The intensifying air campaign is tied to efforts to get President Milosevic to agree to NATO demands. A12
 
Kosovo Update A13
 
Tiananmen Inquiry Sought
More than a hundred relatives of people killed when the Chinese army smashed pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square in 1989 have petitioned the Government to open a criminal investigation of the officials responsible. This is the first time that the victims' relatives have tried to use China's nascent legal system for redress. A1
 
China Assails Espionage Report
China issued its broadest attack yet on the Congressional report that says China stole nuclear and missile technologies, calling the document a tissue of half-truths, conjecture and lies. China's Information Minister said detailed information on American nuclear weapons was readily available from public sites on the Internet. A6
 
India Agrees to Peace Talks
Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee agreed to hold talks with Pakistan about the "warlike situation" in Kashmir, even as India continued bombing what it called a Pakistani-sponsored band of 700 guerrillas occupying Indian territory. A6
 
Kurdish Leader Apologizes
The rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan, on the first day of his trial in Turkey on treason charges, apologized for his past and said he would call for an end to guerrilla violence if Turkish authorities would give him the chance to turn his army into a civilian political party. Mr. Ocalan admitted that he and his fighters were responsible for all the killings and other acts attributed to them. A3
 
New Appointees in Russia
President Boris N. Yeltsin put Viktor Khristenko, left, and Mikhail Zadornov, two familiar and reform-minded fiscal experts, in top economic posts. Both appointments seemed to have been sought by Mr. Yeltsin's latest Prime Minister, Sergei Stepashin, who has been battling rival political forces to place loyalists in senior Government posts. A14
 
World Briefing A10
 
NATIONAL A16-21
 
U.S. Is Investigating A New Medicare Practice
The Government is examining the growing use of part-time rehabilitation clinics in doctors' offices. The doctors rent office space a few days a week to therapists, who are paid by Medicare to treat patients referred by the doctors. Critics say the practice runs the risk of violating fraud, abuse and kickback laws. But one company that runs such clinics, Senior Health Care, said its arrangements were legal because it paid "fair market value" for the space it rented and that doctors were not required to refer patients. A16
 
New Type of Cosmic Objects
New surveys of the sky are surprising astronomers with mystifying discoveries in recent weeks, including an entirely new cosmic category of numerous dim, reddish objects that scientists are calling methane brown dwarfs. The discoveries were announced at a meeting of the American Astronomical Society. A19
 
Fixing Up the Space Station
Astronauts from the shuttle Discovery repaired a radio, replaced flawed battery packs and installed foam mufflers over noisy fans on the international space station. A16
 
Government Net Sites Attacked
Computer hackers vandalized two Government sites on the Internet and left a note threatening to attack more because of an F.B.I. investigation. Last week, hackers disrupted the F.B.I. and Senate sites. The attacks were apparently in retaliation for what the hackers say is F.B.I. harassment of hacker groups. A20
 
Egyptian Collection Reopens
The Egyptian gallery of the Oriental Institute in Chicago, featuring a colossal statue of Tutankhamen, opened last weekend for the first time since 1996. The institute's galleries were closed to the public for a $10.1 million renovation primarily to safeguard artifacts from climate damage. The other galleries are to reopen during the next three years. A20
 
Instilling Values in School
The nation's public schools, which taught the Bible for generations until the 1960's, are under growing pressure to offer ethics instruction as a way to promote safe learning free of harassment. Educators say the recent school shootings and last week's Supreme Court ruling on sexual harassment by students have given the issue new urgency. School administrators are worried about legal protections, but advocates of public moral education say that though the Supreme Court banned prayer in schools it has never insisted that schools be neutral on values. A17
 
Memorial for a Lynching
About 60 people gathered in a white church in Georgia for a Memorial Day service recalling the killings of a black World War II veteran and three relatives in 1946. A Federal grand jury investigation at the time produced no indictments. The case was reopened in 1991, when a witness came forward, but there have been no arrests. A18
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Lincoln Center May Mount Big Campaign for Overhaul
Officials at Lincoln Center are weighing the possibility of a vast fund-raising campaign to help the performing arts complex, which is approaching its 40th birthday, reverse the effects of decades of wear and tear and address other gnawing problems. A1
 
Burial of Train Victims
A mother who immigrated from Ecuador and four young sons were buried in Connecticut. They were killed by a train as they walked on the tracks early Tuesday. B4
 
Girl, 3, Shot to Death
A 3-year-old girl died after being hit in a drive-by shooting as she stood with her father on a Bronx street corner, the police said. B3
 
Brooklyn Home for Farm Team
The city is looking at one of its most famous sandlots -- the playing fields at Prospect Park's Parade Grounds -- as a site for a New York Mets farm team until a permanent stadium is built in Coney Island. B3
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-14
 
A Key to Good Health
Research is showing that social class -- as measured by income, education and other markers of relative status -- is a powerful predictor of health, more powerful than genetics, exposure to carcinogens, even smoking. In other words, the higher the rung on the socioeconomic ladder, the lower the risk to health. F1
 
Stress and Longevity
The ability to handle stress well seems to be a common trait among people in study of centenarians. F7
 
Drug Combination for the Heart
Adding a "super aspirin" to a standard clot-dissolving drug is a more effective treatment for heart attacks than either drug alone, according to a study being published today. F2
 
Health & Fitness F7
 
ARTS E1-10
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Spurs Shock Trail Blazers
San Antonio came back from 17 points down to beat Portland, 86-85, and take a 2-0 lead in the Western Conference Finals. D3
 
OBITUARIES C13
 
William E. Ringel
A Manhattan judge who ruled Andy Warhol's "Blue Movie" obscene, lectured civil rights protesters on the evils of anarchy and sent a parade of slumlords, thieves and vagrants to jail during 25 years on the bench, he was 97. C13
 
William R. Lawley Jr.
A World War II bomber pilot who received the Medal of Honor for a mission over Europe, he was 78. C13
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-12
 
Opposition to Book Merger
The F.T.C. staff has recommended that the commission block the planned $600 million acquisition by Barnes & Noble, the nation's largest bookseller, of Ingram Book Group, its largest book wholesaler, a person involved in the deal said. A1
 
Conrail Changeover
Norfolk Southern and CSX, which dominate commercial rail traffic in much of the East, take over chunks of Conrail today, the most sweeping change in a generation in the Northeast's commercial railroads -- especially in the New York area. C1
 
Korean Bank Sales Delayed
The Financial Supervisory Commission, the financial watchdog charged with cleaning up South Korea's debt-laden financial institutions, said it had extended negotiations over the final terms of the sale of Seoul Bank to HSBC Holdings until June 30. The commission also delayed for a third time the sale of Korea First Bank to a group of investors led by two American financiers. C1
 
Microsoft Executive on Leave
Microsoft said Nathan Myhrvold, its chief technology officer, would take a yearlong sabbatical to pursue scientific research and travel. C2
 
Stocks Gain Around World
European stocks ended slightly higher in thin volume, as holidays in the United States and Britain left trading quiet. In Tokyo, Hong Kong and Sydney, stocks rose. C10
 
Business Digest C1
 
FASHION B11
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: Trial for campaign reform; the citizens' right to know; Floyd Norris on night trading.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E8
 
TV Listings E9
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D5
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); TURKEY (92%); INDIA (92%); BELGIUM (91%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA (93%); TURKEY (92%); INDIA (92%); BELGIUM (91%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); KASHMIR (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES WAR & CONFLICT (92%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); TREASON (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); PETITIONS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); ESPIONAGE (65%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (61%); OFFICE PROPERTY (60%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); VIKTOR KHRISTENKO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



11 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Yeltsin Names Reformers To Top Economic Posts
President Boris N. Yeltsin placed two familiar and reform-minded fiscal experts in top economic posts, but after a week of brutal infighting among his closest advisers the question of who really controls his latest Government seemed no clearer than before.
Mr. Yeltsin appointed Viktor Khristenko, a deputy prime minister until last August's fiscal collapse, to the new post of First Deputy Prime Minister for macroeconomics and financial policy. He also named Mikhail Zadornov, the finance minister until this month, as the government's special negotiator with the International Monetary Fund. Page A11. 

F.T.C. Opposes Book Deal
The staff of the Federal Trade Commission has concluded that the planned merger between the nation's largest bookseller and its largest wholesaler violates antitrust law and has recommended that the full commission step in to block Barnes & Noble's $600 million acquisition of Ingram Book Group, a person involved in the deal said. A1.
 
Speculators Borrow Yen
The spread between Japanese and higher American interest rates has recently been widening, tempting speculators to borrow yen at bargain-basement prices, convert them to dollars and invest them in United States Treasury bills. C10.

Microsoft Official Takes Sabbatical
Nathan Myhrvold, Microsoft's chief technology officer, will take a yearlong sabbatical to pursue his own scientific research and travel, the company announced. C2.
 
U.S. Markets Reopen
Financial markets in the United States are open today; they were closed yesterday in observance of Memorial Day.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 10,559.74, down 269.54
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.82%, up 0.07
The Dollar -- 121.43 yen, down 2.58
 
Graphs:
 
"Getting Away"
Today marks the start of the summer travel season, when the most vacations are taken. Here's how one industry group thinks this season will stack up.
 
HOW MANY VACATIONERS
Graph tracks number of people taking trips at least 100 miles, since 1993. Multiple trips for the same person are counted separately.
 
HOW MUCH THEY'RE SPENDING
Graph tracks average spending for the longest summer vacation, in 1999 dollars, since 1994.
 
WHERE THEY WANT TO GO
1,500 vacationers were asked their top three choices for a vacation.
 
Florida -- 34%
California -- 27%
Hawaii -- 12%
Colorado -- 11%
New York -- 10%
 
(Source: Travel Industry Association of America)
 
"TODAY"
 
Construction Spending
 April figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.1%
 Leading Indicators
 April figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: Unchanged

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INGRAM BOOK GROUP INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (83%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (75%); BOOK & PERIODICAL WHOLESALERS (74%); BOOKSTORES (74%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); WHOLESALERS (68%); INTEREST RATES (52%); TREASURY SECURITIES (51%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%); 

PERSON: VIKTOR KHRISTENKO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



12 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Is Spy Scandal Fueled by Racism or Justified Concern?;
A Setback for China

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "America's Stolen Secrets" (editorial, May 26): 
 Revelations about alleged Chinese espionage efforts should come as no surprise. More than 2,000 years ago, Sun Tzu, a Chinese military philosopher, extolled the value of spying on potential adversaries. With superior information, he argued, a ruler could prevail without war.
However, China's pervasive use of espionage has probably weakened its future security and economic development.
On many occasions since World War II the United States has discovered the incompatibility of spying and diplomacy. The downing of a U-2 spy plane over Russia in 1960 is but one example.
Now China may discover that the law of unintended consequences will severely damage its future diplomatic and economic relations with the United States.
 
HARRY HOWE RANSOM
Nashville, May 27, 1999
 
The writer is professor emeritus at Vanderbilt University.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; ATOMIC WEAPONS ESPIONAGE (94%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); 

PERSON: RANSOM, HARRY HOWE MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



13 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE WHITE HOUSE;
CLINTON DECLARES MOST WAR CLEANUP IS EUROPE'S TASK

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31

 BODY:
On the eve of a key NATO decision on how to assemble a large peacekeeping force for Yugoslavia, President Clinton said today that Europeans would contribute most of the force and most of the money needed to rebuild the country.
In a Memorial Day address at Arlington National Cemetery, Mr. Clinton said the decision to intervene in Kosovo was aimed at saving lives -- including American ones in the future. 
 At a meeting in Belgium on Tuesday, NATO military leaders are expected to complete the planning for the Yugoslav peacekeeping force. The President stressed that a large majority of the troops in the force will come from other NATO nations and perhaps countries outside NATO like Russia and Ukraine. The force is expected to number about 50,000, including roughly 7,000 Americans.
"I know that many Americans believe that this is not our fight," Mr. Clinton told an audience of active-duty and retired military personnel amid the serried rows of bone-white crosses this morning. "But remember why many of the people are laying in these graves out here -- because of what happened in Europe and because of what was allowed to go on too long before people intervened. What we are doing today will save lives, including American lives, in the future."
NATO continued its relentless bombing across Yugoslavia today. Raids near Albania in effect helped the rebels who are fighting the Serbs. Other missiles apparently struck a hospital complex and an apartment building, causing dozens of deaths.
In his 20-minute speech President Clinton made no mention of diplomatic efforts to resolve the Balkan conflict, which have followed a meandering course over the past month through Moscow, Helsinki, Berlin and Belgrade, the seat of power of Slobodan Milosevic, the Yugoslav President.
But White House aides said Mr. Clinton spoke for 30 minutes this morning with Sergei V. Stepashin, the new Russian Prime Minister. Officials said the two discussed progress on the diplomatic front and agreed to a meeting on Tuesday in Bonn involving the three principal negotiators: Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott; President Martti Ahtisaari of Finland, and Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, the former Russian Prime Minister who serves as special Balkans envoy. The three are expected to brief Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany after their meeting, officials said.
It is likely that Mr. Chernomyrdin and Mr. Ahtisaari will travel to Belgrade later in the week to speak with Mr. Milosevic, an Administration official said.
A White House official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that Mr. Stepashin had initiated the call to Mr. Clinton and that the President today was "cautiously optimistic" about the talks in Europe this week. He said that some leaders detected "a little movement" by Mr. Milosevic toward accepting the NATO conditions for ending the bombing. The official also suggested that the pressure on Mr. Milosevic might have grown after he was indicted on war-crimes charges last week.
Mr. Clinton used the Memorial Day address to repeat NATO's core demands for ending the aerial bombardment of Serbia, the dominant republic in what remains of Yugoslavia. The President said Serbia must withdraw its forces from the province of Kosovo, where their campaign of "ethnic cleansing" has displaced more than 1.5 million people of Albanian descent. He said the Kosovo refugees must be able to return home in peace. And he said the Yugoslav Government must accept a peacekeeping force in Kosovo "with NATO at its core."
Mr. Milosevic has reportedly accepted broad conditions agreed to at an early May meeting of the so-called Group of Eight nations, which include Russia and Japan, neither of them involved in the Balkan conflict. But he has not yet acceded to the harsher specifics laid down by NATO, including withdrawal of virtually all forces from Kosovo, autonomy for Kosovo and acceptance of a NATO-led peacekeeping force.
The President also replied to domestic critics on both left and right who have complained of excessive American involvement in a regional conflict, now in its 10th week, that does not threaten vital security or economic interests. He also sought to respond to the public, whose support for NATO bombing has begun to ebb.
"In this military campaign," Mr. Clinton said, "the United States has borne a large share of the burden, as we must, because we have a greater capacity to bear that burden.
"But all Americans should know that we have been strongly supported by our European allies; that when the peacekeeping force goes in there, the overwhelming majority of people will be European, and that when the reconstruction begins, the overwhelming amount of investment will be European. This is something we have done together."
About three-quarters of the aircraft on missions over Yugoslavia are American, and much of the weaponry is also American, like the cruise missiles launched from warships and B-52 bombers. Mr. Clinton has asked Congress for $6 billion in emergency money for the Pentagon, most of it to cover the Balkan air war. Congress approved nearly twice that much, using the emergency bill to authorize a militarywide pay increase and other Pentagon spending unrelated to the conflict.
The NATO meeting in Mons, Belgium, will address the composition of the Kosovo force. Military commanders from NATO's 19 countries will decide which nations will contribute which sorts of troops, not only combat forces but engineers, mine-clearing teams, transportation units, interpreters, intelligence officers and medical personnel.
Mr. Milosevic has demanded that any peacekeeping forces be unarmed or lightly armed, and that NATO not dominate the force. But the United States and its allies insist that all units be capable of defending themselves and that NATO will provide the command structure and the bulk of the personnel.
Mr. Clinton said today that the stakes were high in Yugoslavia for Europe and the world. He insisted that the West cannot allow the assault on people's lives there to take place unchallenged.
"We can say 'no' to that," Mr. Clinton declared before the veterans at Arlington today, "and we should."
And he said: "Today there is a new challenge before us in Kosovo. It is a very small province in a small country, but it is a big test of what we believe in."
Mr. Clinton said the American involvement demonstrated "our commitment to leave to our children a world where people are not uprooted and ravaged and slaughtered en masse because of their race, their ethnicity or their religion; our fundamental interest in building a lasting peace in an undivided and free Europe, a place which saw two world wars when that dream failed in the 20th century, and our interest in preserving our alliance for freedom and peace with our 18 NATO allies." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); FINLAND (92%); BELGIUM (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UKRAINE (78%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); FINLAND (92%); BELGIUM (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UKRAINE (78%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); CEMETERIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); WAR CRIMES (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



14 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: AMERICAS;
GROWTH SLOWS IN CANADA

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
Canada's economic growth slowed slightly in the first quarter, rising 3.4 percent after 4.6 percent annualized growth in the fourth quarter of 1998, according to preliminary data released yesterday by Statistics Canada. Marcel Kasumovich, an economist at Goldman Sachs Canada, said the first-quarter growth was marginally below expectations but could still be revised upward. Official preliminary results for first-quarter growth are due on June 10, a delay to accommodate revisions to the national accounts data. The Bank of Canada, in its semiannual Monetary Policy Report released two weeks ago, predicted first-quarter growth of about 4 percent. "The stimulus of a booming U.S. economy, signs that the worst of Asia's economic crisis may be over, improved consumer confidence and the absence of major work stoppages all played to the Canadian economy's advantage in the first quarter," Statistics Canada said in its daily release. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: STATISTICS CANADA GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATISTICS CANADA

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (99%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); 

PERSON: JOHN MAJOR (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



15 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
GREENE, JEROME L.

 BODY:
GREENE-Jerome L. The President, the Board of Trustees and entire Montefiore Medical Center community deeply mourn the death of our dear friend and supporter, Jerome L. Greene. A devoted and active trustee since 1972, he had an extraordinary impact on the quality of health and life of thousands of Montefiore patients and residents of the Bronx and Westchester. Combining his skills as a lawyer with his belief in Montefiore as an instrument of social responsibility, he led the medical center in the founding, 18 years ago, of the Mosholu Preservation Corporation, a nonprofit community development support corporation that has, with his guidance, saved housing, revitalized neighborhoods and created innovative projects such as moderate income housing, a community newspaper that serves 15,000 households, the first and only NYC business improvement district sponsored under the auspices of an academic institution, a vast program of graffiti removal and a youth job training program-all of which have played a role in the Bronx's nationally recognized resurgence. He believed in the crucial role of academic medical centers such as Montefiore in advancing the health of communities through research, education and provision of high-quality care, and with his beloved wife, Dawn, he helped Montefiore create the Jerome L. and Dawn Greene Medical Arts Pavilion, a state-of-the-art building that opened in 1997 offering a full range of general and specialty services in an ambulatory care setting. More recently, he and his wife have been generous benefactors of The Children's Hospital at Montefiore, scheduled to open in 2001. In 1991, at its annual Celebrate Montefiore dinner dance, the medical center honored this remarkable man of vision and commitment for his exemplary stewardship. This year, Montefiore nominated him for the United Hospital Fund's 1999 Distinguished Community Service Award. The medical center has lost one of its greatest friends. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his loving wife, Dawn, and their entire family. Spencer Foreman, MD, President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
GREENE-Jerome L. The Board, staff and the entire Lincoln Center family deeply mourn the death of our cherished friend and supporter, Jerome Greene. Jerry was a longtime member of Lincoln Center's Board of Directors and Emeriti Council, and provided guidance and vision for all our activities for many years. He cared about Linconln Center and its programs deeply, especially the Mostly Mozart Festival. His leadership and extraordinary generosity have ensured Mostly Mozart continuity for more than a decade and through his generosity he has left a legacy for hundreds of thousands of music lovers who have enjoyed and continue to enjoy this music series. We will miss his wisdom, warmth, integrity and his loyal friendship. Our heartfelt condolences to Dawn and their entire family. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President
GREENE-Jerome L. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater convey their sorrow and condolences to Dawn and the children upon the sad death of Jerome. Jerry was an advocate of our theater and favored it with his benefactions. An inveterate theatergoer, he praised the work he admired and was forgiving of the plays he didn't care for. He was generous to the arts and education in New York and his genial presence will be missed at Lincoln Center. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John S. Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Exec Producer
GREENE-Jerome L. Once in a great while there comes along a person, who in life makes an indelible impression upon others by their very being...that their memory will likely never fade. Jerome L. Greene was one of those rare individuals. The Carlyle has long been a part of his life, and he has been so very important to this New York institution. We cherish most and value greatest that we were privileged to know, love and be influenced by him, for he was a very special man. Dan Camp and the Staff of The Carlyle
GREENE-Jerome L. The officers and leadership of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of a valued friend and longtime supporter, Jerome L. Greene. His generosity to the mission of UJA-Federation, as well as his extraordinary commitment to the arts, will long be remembered. To his wife, Dawn, and to his entire family, we offer our heartfelt sympathy. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
GREENE-Jerome L. With condolences to Dawn and her family. We bid a sad farewell to our good friend and partner, Jerome L. Greene. Liliane and Norman Peck 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LINCOLN CENTER (69%); TRUSTEES MONTEFIORE MEDICAL CENTER (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUSTEES MONTEFIORE MEDICAL CENTER (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MUSIC (76%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); VANDALISM (70%); GRAFFITI (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); LAWYERS (56%); 

PERSON: GREENE, JEROME L. GREENE-JEROME L (91%); JEROME L GREENE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



16 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 1, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 4; Health & Fitness 

LENGTH: 2132 words

HEADLINE: For Good Health, It Helps To Be Rich and Important

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE 

 BODY:
Doctors usually evaluate patients' vulnerability to serious disease by inquiring about risk factors like cigarette smoking, obesity, hypertension and high cholesterol.
But they might be better off asking how much money those patients make, how many years they spent in school and where they stand relative to others in their offices and communities. 
 Scientists have known for decades that poverty translates into higher rates of illness and mortality. But an explosion of research is demonstrating that social class -- as measured not just by income but also by education and other markers of relative status -- is one of the most powerful predictors of health, more powerful than genetics, exposure to carcinogens, even smoking.
What matters is not simply whether a person is rich or poor, college educated or not. Rather, risk for a wide variety of illnesses, including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, arthritis, infant mortality, many infectious diseases and some types of cancer, varies with relative wealth or poverty: the higher the rung on the socioeconomic ladder, the lower the risk. And this relationship holds even at the upper reaches of society, where it might seem that an abundance of resources would even things out.
Social class is an uncomfortable subject for many Americans. "I think there has been a resistance to thinking about social stratification in our society," said Dr. Nancy Adler, professor of medical psychology at the University of California at San Francisco and director of the John T. and Catherine D. MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Socioeconomic Status and Health. Instead, researchers traditionally have focused on health differences between rich and poor, or blacks and whites (unaware, in many cases, that race often served as a proxy for socioeconomic status, since blacks are disproportionately represented in lower income brackets).
But the notion that a mid-level executive with a three-bedroom, split-level in Scarsdale might somehow be more vulnerable to illness than his boss in the five-bedroom colonial a few blocks away seems to have finally captured scientists' attention.
In the past five years, 193 papers addressing aspects of socioeconomic status and health have appeared in scientific journals -- twice the number in the previous five-year period. The National Institutes of Health last year declared research on disparities in health related to social class or minority status one of its highest priorities, said Dr. Norman Anderson, associate director of the N.I.H. And a recent conference in Bethesda, Md., on the topic, sponsored by the New York Academy of Sciences and the MacArthur Foundation network, drew more than 250 participants from a wide variety of disciplines.
What first compelled researchers interest was a now-classic study, begun in the late 1960's, of men in the British civil service. The Whitehall study, directed by Dr. Michael Marmot, director of the International Center for Health and Society at University College London, tracked mortality rates over 10 years for 17,530 male civil service employees.
When the data were analyzed, the researchers were astonished to discover that mortality rates varied continuously and precisely with the men's civil service grade: the higher the classification, the lower the rates of death, regardless of cause.
This finding was as perplexing as it was intriguing. The men all had jobs, and equal access to health care under Britain's national health system. But mortality rates for men in the lowest civil service classification, the researchers found, were three times higher than those for men in the highest grade. And a 25-year follow-up of the Whitehall subjects, some results of which were published in 1996, found the social class gradient persisted well past retirement, even among men into their late 80's.
Subsequent studies demonstrated a similar relationship between socioeconomic status and mortality in the United States and Canada.
What could account for such startling findings? One plausible explanation was that lower-ranked men might engage in more risky behaviors, like smoking. But the same health disparity from pay grade to pay grade that was evident in smokers held for nonsmokers, too. And all coronary risk factors combined, the researchers found, accounted for only a third of the differences between grades.
Stress, or other aspects of psychological life that can have an impact on a person's vulnerability to disease, the Whitehall group reasoned, might also play a role in the results. Prolonged exposure to stress, researchers have found, can lead to abnormalities in immune function and glucose metabolism, and destroy brain cells involved in memory. And studies show that the lower one's social status, the more stressed people feel, and the more stressful events they encounter in their lives.
Dr. Sheldon Cohen, professor of psychology at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, has demonstrated a link between social status and vulnerability to infectious disease in male macaque monkeys. In a study carried out in conjunction with primate researchers at Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Dr. Cohen found that males at the lower end of the dominance hierarchy were more susceptible to a cold virus than dominant males.
Dr. Cohen and his colleagues at Carnegie Mellon then replicated those findings in humans. Subjects in the study were asked to rate their relative standing in their community on a social status ladder, then were exposed to mild respiratory virus. People who ranked themselves low on the ladder were more likely to become infected with the virus than those who ranked themselves higher up on the ladder.
In another study, the researchers found that people who had been unemployed for one month or more under highly stressful conditions were 3.8 times more susceptible to a virus than people who were not experiencing a significant stressful situation.
At least in primates, the interaction of stress with social class and illness, however, depends both on the nature of the stress and the context in which it occurs, as demonstrated in a series of studies by Dr. Jay R. Kaplan, a professor of pathology and anthropology at Wake Forest.
In a crowded situation where resources are scarce, for example, male monkeys at the lowest end of the dominance hierarchy, who must scramble hardest to survive, are likely to feel the most stress. And in studies of primates in the wild, researchers find that subordinate animals show higher levels of stress hormones.
But when Dr. Kaplan and his colleagues fed male monkeys a "luxury" diet, high in fat and cholesterol, and moved them each month for two years into a new group of strange males, it was the dominant animals, forced to reassert their position continually, who suffered the most stress. Under such conditions, Dr. Kaplan finds, dominant males show a hypervigilant response, and have higher rates of coronary artery disease than subordinates.
For humans and primates, a sense of control over life events is intimately related to stress. And control seems to have been one factor at work in the Whitehall study.
In 1985, Dr. Marmot and his colleagues launched Whitehall II, a second large-scale study, which included civil servants of both sexes and which collected more detailed information on the participants.
As part of the study, employees were asked to rate the amount of control they felt over their jobs. Managers also rated the amount of control employees had. Job control, the researchers found, varied inversely with employment grade: the higher the grade, the more control. And the less control employees had, as defined either by their own or managers' ratings, the higher the employees' risk of developing coronary disease. Job control, in fact, accounted for about half the gradient in deaths from pay grade to pay grade.
To some extent, people's ability to withstand stress, and the ways in which they interpret and respond to life events, are shaped by early life, the product of what one social scientist, Dr. Clyde Hertzman of the University of British Columbia, calls "the long arm of childhood." Genetics play a role, as does nutrition. (In the Whitehall study, height -- which varies with social class -- was used as a rough indicator of childhood influences on development, and accounted for a small portion of the association between mortality and employment grade.) And scientists have found that early life experiences -- abuse and neglect, for example -- can alter brain development and influence responses to stressful events.
Any discussion of socioeconomic status in the United States of necessity involves a discussion of race, since the two are entwined in complex, sometimes inextricable, ways. Proportionally, far more African-Americans live in poverty than whites: 28.4 percent of blacks fell below the poverty line in 1996, compared with 11.2 percent of whites, according to Government data. Death rates for African-Americans from all causes are 1.6 times higher than for white Americans, Dr. David R. Williams of the University of Michigan's Institute for Social Research, said at the Bethesda conference.
Life expectancy for blacks and whites also varies. At age 45, a white man can expect to live five years longer than an African-American man, and white women can expect to live 3.7 years longer than their black counterparts.
If socioeconomic status is taken into account, health differences between blacks and whites decrease substantially: Black men in the highest income brackets, for example, have a life expectancy 7.4 years longer than black men in the lowest brackets, Dr. Williams said. White men at top income levels live 6.6 years longer than their lowest-income counterparts.
But race and to some extent sex still have an impact on health that is independent of social class. The gap in infant mortality rates between blacks and whites, for example, actually increases with higher social status. And being black or female discounts some of the advantages afforded by education: white men accrue health advantages with every additional year of schooling they receive. But black men and women, though they also show gains, show them only through high school, according to an analysis of Federal data by Dr. Adler and Dr. Burton Singer of Princeton University's Office of Population Research. White women, the researchers found, continue to gain in health status through college, but unlike white men, do not receive the gains in health bestowed by post-graduate education.
Social exclusion, residential segregation and other expressions of institutional racism magnify the impact of socioeconomic status. Several studies, for example, have shown higher adult and infant mortality rates for people living in segregated areas.
For both blacks and whites, living in a neighborhood where social bonds have eroded may have negative effects on health. Dr. Robert Putnam of Harvard University coined the term "social capital" to describe the elements that contribute to social cohesion.
Dr. Ichiro Kawachi, director of the Harvard Center for Society and Health, has explored one aspect of social capital -- interpersonal trust -- and its relationship to national and community rates of illness and death.
Dr. Kawachi and his colleagues correlated mortality rates in states with the percentage of state residents who agreed with the statement, "Most people would try to take advantage of you if they got the chance." Death rates, Dr. Kawachi reported at the Bethesda conference, were strongly linked to level of social trust, with the most mistrustful ratings clustering in southern and northeastern states. Another study, of Chicago neighborhoods, yielded similar findings: neighborhoods in which more residents agreed with the statement "Neighbors can be trusted" had lower mortality rates.
Why are neighborhoods or states with higher levels of trust healthier? Dr. Kawachi suggests that in neighborhoods where social trust is high, negative health behaviors -- smoking and alcohol consumption, for example -- might be discouraged through community pressure. Residents in high trust neighborhoods may also share more resources, be more willing to help one another out and offer one another more emotional support. "It is speculation," Dr. Kawachi said, "but probably these little things add up to quite important health differences."
Even so, the relationship between social class and health is unlikely to be entirely explained by social capital, or by any other single dimension of life experience. Said Dr. Adler, "There isn't going to be a single explanation or an easy solution, but we've started mapping out some of the places where we can intervene."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 4, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Tuesday about social class as a predictor of health misstated the correlation between employees' perception of job control and employment grade. It was a direct correlation, not an inverse one: the higher the grade, the more perception of control, and therefore the better predictor of good health.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Executive Privilege Includes Longevity"
A study following 18,133 male civil servants over 25 years shows that the grade of employment was a strong predictor of mortality, especially before retirement.
 
Graph compares relative risk of dying for four working classes in three age groupings. (Source: M. G. Marmot and Martin J. Shipley.)(pg. F9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: D MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LONGEVITY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INCOME; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LONGEVITY; BLACKS DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); SMOKING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CANCER (79%); CARCINOGENS (78%); CHOLESTEROL (78%); HYPERTENSION (78%); OBESITY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); TRENDS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); DIABETES (73%); INFANT MORTALITY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GOODE, ERICA

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1999



17 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 8; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Old Bliss, in a New Arrondissement

BYLINE: By RICHARD EDER 

 BODY:

PARIS TRANCE
By Geoff Dyer
274 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $23.
Centuries ago it was politic for authors to begin with a note to their public or patron disclaiming the virtues of their story. Our post-modern equivalent is to disclaim its reality. Thus the title of Geoff Dyer's novel: "Paris Trance" instead of "France." 
 Mr. Dyer, a wickedly accomplished young Englishman, came out last year with a book about self-consciousness and the impossibility of writing, or even, if you look closely, of living. Naturally, the book, "Out of Sheer Rage" was both well-written and lively. It also did protest too much. Mr. Dyer wrote like a solipsist dragged to a party he knows he is going to be the life of once he stops kicking and screaming.
Among those books that his book found impossible to write was a novel about young expatriates in Paris. Now he has written it, announcing at the start that his finely recognizable Paris is not the real one. He also tells us that his protagonist, a young Werther with a short shelf life, has found it impossible to write a novel about young Parisian expatriates. "Trance" recounts the year or so that two pairs of lovers, Luke and Nicole and Alex and Sahra, spend in blissful camaraderie of the we-were-young-together-in-Paris genre. Mr. Dyer brings it up to date.
For one thing, there is the economics. His novel is an early specimen of what you might call European Community fiction. Luke, the vaguely intending writer, and Alex are British and need no papers to get laboring jobs in a book warehouse. Nicole, a Yugoslav immigrant, and Sahra, an American, are employed more formally: the first as a secretary, the second as an interpreter.
For another (the novel as rolling gentrification), young expatriate bliss has relocated from successively romantic and subsequently unaffordable literary neighborhoods to the 11th arrondissement, out east. Finally, in the blithe mix of cafe-hopping, free-form talk, moviegoing, wine, drugs and sex, the sex and drugs are more insistently detailed than they used to be.
"Paris Trance" is up-to-date social comedy with an implicit minatory shadow. The comedy, for the most part, is brilliantly handled. The doomy implicitness -- as if Don Giovanni's Commendatore had sent an E-mail message instead of arriving by statue -- is hesitant and self-conscious. Mr. Dyer, depicting a culture that is divorced from consequences and suffers the consequences of the divorce, voices his theme too abstractly. He locates but does not quite deliver the "lost" of his contemporary lost generation.
For a while, though, everything is exuberantly found. The author evolves a wonderfully aimless routine of late-century lotus-eating for his characters, none of whom have any particular reason for being in Paris stronger than the need to be away from some particular other place. The aimlessness makes the pace rather desultory; for a while, interest lies mainly in the author's clever writing and generational and social detail. "Together they gave off a double helping of solitude," he observes of two young men who, knowing nobody else at a party, talk to each other.
The encounters of Luke with Nicole and Alex with Sahra provide the book's most infectious energy. Mr. Dyer writes spendid courtship riffs of two different kinds. Luke meets Nicole casually as she strolls past a lunchtime soccer game he is playing. On their first date they cross and re-cross the nighttime Seine, spinning a comically disjointed series of conversational fantasies while quietly checking each other out. Whimsy provides cover as the erotic charge builds and (never mind how, but a stray dog is responsible) discharges.
Unlike Luke and Nicole, who fall into bed that same evening and are instantly inseparable, Alex and Sahra conduct a canny series of advances and retreats. Alex has the original notion of bringing his friends along the first time they go out. In the bouncy and zigzag evening that ensues, the future couple are able to observe and maneuver free of the metered confidences and probings of a one-on-one date. The detours are severe as well as comic; when the two finally come together after no little suspense, there is a sense less of spectacular passion than quieter necessity.
For a year or so the foursome makes playful use of France and the quite bearable lightness of late-century, pre-Kosovo Europe. Also of their own youth, erotic and intellectual fizz, and the lightening of a single couple's emotional burdens when there are two couples to shift them. Mr. Dyer is a genial revels-master of meals, games (they vie to recite by heart every film, cinema and showtime listed in Pariscope), trips to the country and great swirling loops of talk. He is also a virtuoso with graphic sex and its shortfalls. Not that there is not authentic feeling, but that the feeling is somehow unlived and unearned.
"Paris Trance" is a fictional neutron bomb: places, things, pastimes, even emotions remain standing; it is the people who are gone. The point of Mr. Dyer's book and the problem with it are the same: both lodge in that "Trance." For his post-modern European young, and perhaps for a wider Western culture, ugly reality has been tamed and dissipated to the point where it has lost governance of the perceptions. The playground world is not a world.
In his attempt to suggest this, the adept Mr. Dyer loses hold in a number of ways. For one thing, he separates Luke, as advocate of pure sensation, from the other three, who recede into various kinds of reality. The author is trying to assert this reality, but it seems uncongenial; as a result we get little sense of it other than being told about it.
The telling device is faulty. One of the four is narrator as well as character, and the author makes an irritating mystery of who it is, though we easily guess. More seriously there is an unsustainable grandiloquence as this narrator awkwardly drops cautionary notes into his account of the revels, alternates them with bursts of glorifying Luke, and finally recounts the ruin he has come to. Beautiful and damned, in other words: the culture as well as the individual.
Only -- and it is a very big "only" -- we haven't seen Luke as especially more beautiful than the others; and when the damning comes it is trivial. This miniaturized Werther, his romantic illusion shattered, accomplishes his fate with no more than the equivalent of a popgun. An intended generational message, but intentions aren't fiction and in "Paris Trance" they go awkwardly with the accomplished social comedy that is.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Geoff Dyer (Valeria Guglielmi/North Point Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PARIS TRANCE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); NICOLE&ALEX (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: NICOLE&ALEX (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); EUROPE (72%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (89%); LITERATURE GENRES (76%); 

PERSON: EDER, RICHARD; DYER, GEOFF GEOFF DYER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



18 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 27; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Raphael Recanati, Philanthropist, Dies at 75

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Raphael Recanati, an Israeli-American shipping and banking figure better known in New York for his philanthropic largesse -- particularly as a mainstay of Beth Israel Medical Center -- died last Friday in the medical center. He was 75 and lived on the Upperast Side and in Herzliyah, Israel.
The cause was congestive heart failure, Beth Israel said. 
 Mr. Recanati was a pillar of Israel's private economy, with interests in the high-tech, shipping, commerce and banking fields. He was a key figure in attracting foreign investment to its high-tech industries.
He fostered the growth of Israel from its very beginning by using his knowledge of shipping to supply it with munitions, food or whatever else foreign shippers would not deliver at the time. At his death he was chairman of the IDB Group, an offspring of the Israel Discount Bank, which his family founded in 1935.
In this country, his main business engine was the Overseas Shipholding Group of New York, owner-operators of a fleet of oceangoing bulk vessels. He was its founding chairman and, at his death, chairman of its finance and development committee.
He contributed to educational, cultural and especially medical institutions both in Israel and the United States. In New York, the main recipient of his largesse was Beth Israel, whose educational and research missions he bolstered in many ways.
The medical center saw his hand in the advances it could make in such fields of specialized medicine as cardiology, liver research, neurology, pulmonary medicine, dermatology, orthopedic surgery, pediatrics and infectious diseases. He supported its Heart Institute, the Recanati Cardiology Research Fund and the Recanati/Horowitz Cardiology Diagnostic Reseach Fund.
He helped other institutions as well. Mount Sinai School of Medicine has a Recanati/Miller Transplantation Institute. Harvard University Medical School gained an endowed chair with a Recanati Professorship in Immunology.
He was honored as a Guardian of Yeshiva University, which now has Recanati Israel Student Exchange Fellowships and a Recanati course in Cabala at Yeshiva and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Seminary. Those counting on his regular support also included the UJA-Federation Annual Campaigns, the Beilinson Medical Center in Israel, and the Recanati School of Business at Tel Aviv University. He was a trustee of the Weizman Institute of Science, Tel Aviv University, and the American support groups of Tel Aviv and Ben Gurion Universities.
Raphael Recanati's family was from Salonika, Greece, where he was born. They went to Palestine in 1935. After finishing high school, Raphael Recanati joined the Palmach, a Jewish unit fighting for the creation of Israel.
He learned about shipping on a secret mission to Egypt's Jewish community, and when Israel declared its independence in 1948 he founded the Israel-America Shipping Line. The company was active also in New York and evolved into the present Overseas Shipholding Group.
Mr. Recanati also formed an American branch of the family bank, Israel Discount Bank of New York, which he built into the most profitable Israeli overseas bank. He was a co-founder in 1970 of the investment arm of IDB Group and, through subsidiaries, established Discount Investment Corporation and PEC Israel Economic Corporation New York.
His business savvy spawned hundreds of enterprises in Israel. It also produced a scandal over allegations of securities fraud and manipulation of bank stock prices. A Jerusalem court sentenced Mr. Recanati to eight months in prison in the mid-1980's, but the case was thrown out on appeal.
Mr. Recanati is survived by his wife of 53 years, Dina Hettena Recanati; two sons, Oudi, of Israel, the chairman of IDB Holdings, and Michael, of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Raphael Recanati. (1990)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: DSCT (TASE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (60%); NAICS483113 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4424 DEEP SEA DOMESTIC TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (56%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (93%); EGYPT (79%); GREECE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (93%); 

COMPANY: ISRAEL DISCOUNT BANK OF NEW YORK (60%); OVERSEAS SHIPHOLDING GROUP INC (56%); ISRAEL DISCOUNT BANK LTD (56%); RECANATI SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AT TEL AVIV (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: RECANATI SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AT TEL AVIV (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (93%); EGYPT (79%); GREECE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (99%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); CARDIOLOGY (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HEART DISEASE (76%); FAMILY (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); IMMUNOLOGY (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (71%); INWARD INVESTMENT (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); ORTHOPEDICS (69%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); DERMATOLOGY (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (61%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

PERSON: RECANATI, RAPHAEL; SAXON, WOLFGANG TZIPORA LIVNI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



19 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Dow Jones inLink With Germans as Rivalry Grows in Europe

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, June 1

 BODY:
Hoping to fend off The Financial Times of London in Continental Europe, Dow Jones & Company announced an alliance today with Germany's biggest daily business newspaper.
Under the deal, Dow Jones agreed to exchange a stake in The Wall Street Journal Europe for a stake in Handelsblatt, owned by Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck of Germany. 
 The two newspapers plan to use each other's reporting, with each allowing the other to translate and publish its material on the same day.
The new alliance is the latest turn in a heated rivalry to dominate Europe's business press.
The Financial Times, owned by Pearson P.L.C., has teamed up with the German magazine publisher Gruner & Jahr to introduce a new German-language version of its salmon-colored daily.
Employing about 100 reporters and editors in Germany, the newspaper is expected to start later this year and compete directly with Handelsblatt.
Dieter von Holtzbrinck, chairman of Holtzbrinck in Dusseldorf, said his partnership with The Journal was not a defensive reaction to The Financial Times.
"It looks like a reaction, but it is really a coincidence," he said at a news conference here today.
Karen Elliott House, president of Dow Jones International, said the alliance would strengthen both papers.
"The point here is not to homogenize these two publications," she said. "We want to use our relative strengths to enhance each other."
Established in 1983, The Wall Street Journal Europe says its circulation is about 70,000, with about 57,000 outside Britain. The Financial Times claims a circulation of about 367,000, about 113,000 in Continental Europe.
In Europe's increasingly integrated economy, the competition to dominate its business media has become increasingly important and heated.
The newest stage of the rivalry poses an intriguing test for two opposing language strategies in Europe's polyglot market.
Partly because English is the most common denominator for many Europeans, both The Financial Times and The Wall Street Journal Europe come closer than any other daily newspapers to being Europe-wide publications.
But the German-speaking region of Europe is substantial -- more than 80 million people in Germany plus those in Austria and much of Switzerland.
Dow Jones refuses to provide financial details about The Wall Street Journal Europe, though the company says it has been profitable for several years.
Holtzbrinck, owned by the Holtzbrinck family, is one of Germany's biggest publishing and media groups. Besides Handelsblatt, it owns book publishers including Henry Holt, Farrar Straus & Giroux in the United States, and scientific and technical journals and the influential German weekly Die Zeit.
Under the agreement, Holtzbrinck will acquire 49 percent of The Wall Street Journal Europe, while Dow Jones will acquire 22 percent of Handelsblatt. In addition, Holtzbrinck is acquiring part of Dow Jones's minority stakes in a Czech publishing venture and the German financial news agency VWD.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (70%); PSO (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (70%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (56%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (56%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); AUSTRIA (70%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO; FINANCIAL TIMES (NEWSPAPER); WALL STREET JOURNAL EUROPE; HANDELSBLATT (GERMAN NEWSPAPER); VERLAGSGRUPPE GEORG VON HOLTZBRINCK; PEARSON PLC; GRUNER & JAHR DOW JONES & CO INC (96%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (95%); VERLAGSGRUPPE GEORG VON HOLTZBRINCK GMBH (85%); PEARSON PLC (70%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); GRUNER + JAHR AG & CO KG (56%); DOW JONES INTERNATIONAL MARKETING SERVICES GMBH (55%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOW JONES & CO; FINANCIAL TIMES (NEWSPAPER); WALL STREET JOURNAL EUROPE; HANDELSBLATT (GERMAN NEWSPAPER); VERLAGSGRUPPE GEORG VON HOLTZBRINCK; PEARSON PLC; GRUNER & JAHR

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; EUROPE; EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (95%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); AUSTRIA (70%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; GERMAN LANGUAGE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); BOOK PUBLISHING (71%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (71%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



20 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Production Rose in May, Survey Says

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
The rebound in United States manufacturing accelerated in May and more factories reported paying higher prices for materials, a National Association of Purchasing Management survey showed today.
Separately, the Conference Board reported today that its index of leading economic indicators fell one-tenth of 1 percent in April, its first monthly decline in almost a year. And the Commerce Department said that the country's construction spending unexpectedly fell 2.4 percent in April, the first decline in six months. 
 The National Association of Purchasing Management's factory index rose to 55.2 last month, its highest level since October 1997, from 52.8 in April. Index readings above 50 mean that most manufacturers surveyed reported improved business.
"The manufacturing sector is enjoying a resurgence after a very difficult period driven by the financial crisis in Asia," said Norbert Ore, chairman of the association's business survey committee and director of corporate purchasing at the Chesapeake Corporation, a paper and packaging concern in Richmond.
The association's index of prices paid rose to 52.2 in May from 49.9 in April, indicating that more companies reported price increases during the month. The price index, which is also at its highest level since October 1997, probably reflected an increase in world petroleum prices earlier this year.
The numbers suggest that the economy may be growing fast enough to prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates. "It looks like the manufacturing sector is up and running, and the Fed cannot be overjoyed with that," said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisers Inc. in Holland, Pa.
The production index, a gauge of current output, rose to 59.2 in May from 57.6 in April. The new orders index, a measure of current demand, rose to 58.9 in May from 54.8 in April.
"Manufacturing was so badly beaten up last year that it will be a very long time before there is any danger of overheating," said Christopher Low, chief economist at First Tennessee Capital Markets Inc. in New York. "The problem is, from the market's perspective, that weak manufacturing will no longer offset strength elsewhere in the economy. Consumer spending has got to slow to keep the Fed at bay."
Analysts were mostly dismissive of the two other economic reports released today. Fewer building permits and a drop in consumer expectations led the decline in the leading economic indicators. While they fell in percentage terms, the levels for both remain very high, said James Glassman, senior United States economist at Chase Securities in New York. "Consumer confidence is the last thing we're worried about right now," Mr. Glassman said.
Construction spending fell 2.4 percent in April to a $697.4 billion annual rate, as work on everything from homes to hotels to highways declined. The decline was the first since October and the largest since a 1.1 percent drop in June 1997. It also followed a 1.3 percent gain in March.
"After a run of four successive strong reports, construction spending was due for a correction, and this is it," said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla, N.Y.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Leading Indicators" shows an index of 10 indicators designed to predict overall economic activity from Nov. 1997 through April 1999. (Source: Commerce Departent)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSK (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322130 PAPERBOARD MILLS (69%); SIC2631 PAPERBOARD MILLS (69%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT CHESAPEAKE CORP (69%); UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (70%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); PRODUCTION POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING (73%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BUILDING PERMITS (71%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



21 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Data SuggestingInflation Risk Help to Push Treasuries Lower

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bond prices slumped yesterday, pushing yields to their highest in more than a year, after a report pointing to manufacturing strength stoked concerns the Federal Reserve may raise interest rates.
The report "really upset people," by suggesting growth and faster inflation, said Graham Allen, who oversees $50 billion of fixed-income investments at Wells Capital Management in Los Angeles. With the jobs report looming on Friday and figures on May consumer prices expected later in the month, "the market's got some fairly rocky times ahead," he said. 
 The price of the benchmark 30-year bond fell 1 7/32, to 90 22/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.94 percent, from 5.82 percent on Friday. Earlier, yields briefly touched 5.95 percent, the highest since May 15, 1998.
Yields on two-year notes, among securities most responsive to changes in Fed policy, rose to 5.54 percent from 5.40 percent, the highest in almost a year.
Bond prices tumbled after the National Association of Purchasing Management said its index of manufacturing activity rose to 55.2 in May -- the highest level since October 1997. The group's index of prices paid also rose in the month, indicating more companies reported price increases during the month.
The report was "a negative for the market," said Christopher Low, chief economist at First Tennessee Capital Markets.
Traders sold bonds after the report because it provided more signs of strength in the economy, which has expanded for eight straight years. With the Fed having signaled last month that it was prepared to raise rates to keep inflation from picking up, investors say any indications of strength would help build the case for a rate increase.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.832	97.599	High Rate	4.62%	4.75%	Coupon Yield	4.75%	4.94%	Low Rate	4.53%	4.63%	Median Rate	4.60%	4.73%	Total applied for	$26,026,630	$25,055,658	Accepted	$11,604,130	$11,650,558	Noncompetitive	$1,358,677	$1,069,606	

Both issues are dated June 3, 1999. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 2, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 2, 1999. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (93%); BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



22 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
As Gold Price Plunges, a Company Thrives

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY PRITCHARD 

DATELINE: TORONTO, June 1

 BODY:
The price of gold has fallen to levels unseen in more than 20 years. But that does not seem to faze Peter Munk, chairman of the Barrick Gold Corporation, one of the world's biggest and most profitable mining companies.
"I'm not a gold bug," Mr. Munk said. "I didn't form Barrick because I love gold. To me it was a fabulous business opportunity." Even in the current market, he said, the company produces gold for less than half the price it gets, and "to me, that's like paradise." 
 Mr. Munk's appraisal of the gold business has not shifted, even though the price has fallen to roughly $268 an ounce late today from more than $400 three years ago. The most recent reason for the decline is the announcement by Britain last month that it would sell half its gold reserves, aggravating oversupply fears.
Certainly, higher prices would make Barrick even more profitable. But it is now "the most profitable gold company in the world," Mr. Munk said. So his concerns are not those of the world's gold traders and speculators.
Mr. Munk, 71, has been involved in other businesses -- stereo manufacturing, hotels in the South Seas, oil and gas -- with mixed results. But he has done exceptionally well with Barrick, which he helped establish in 1983. Today it mines gold in Ontario and Quebec provinces as well as in Nevada, Peru and Chile.
Last year, the company earned a record $301 million on revenue of $1.3 billion, even though the average spot price for an ounce of gold was $294 in 1998, down from $332 in 1997.
Barrick fared well for three reasons. It mined 5 percent more gold, lowered its operating costs by 12 percent, to $160 an ounce, and sold its output for an average price of $400 an ounce by hedging -- selling gold it had not yet produced.
Not one ounce of gold Barrick has mined has ever been sold for the market price. Working with investment bankers, it sells contracts for future delivery and invests the proceeds from those transactions in high-quality securities. After commissions are paid, Barrick records the gains from its investments as part of the selling price for gold.
So while the price of bullion has been falling hard, Barrick stock has held up quite well. Today, Barrick shares traded in New York fell 31.25 cents, to $16.9375, well within their 52-week range of $12.875 to $23.625.
Several precious-metals analysts expect Barrick's profit to keep rising because the company is less reliant on high-cost mines and is expanding low-cost operations. In a recent report, HSBC Securities in Toronto said it expected Barrick's profit to rise to $334 million, even though its average selling price for an ounce of gold is projected to fall roughly 4 percent, to $385.
During a recent and rare interview in Toronto, Mr. Munk described Britain's proposed sale over two years of 415 metric tons of gold, or 913,000 pounds, as a relatively small quantity that had provoked a knee-jerk reaction. "There is nothing that this market can come up with in terms of bad news that has not been totally digested by the main holders," he said.
Unlike longtime gold bugs who fret about the vulnerability that has settled around gold, making it no different from other commodities, Mr. Munk said he thought the price of bullion had been amazingly strong. Had he been asked 10 years ago what sales from reserves by governments would do to the price, "I would have said it would have been between $40 and $50" an ounce.
But this degree of price resilience in the face of bad news, he maintained, "really proves that gold has a fundamental balance of value as a commodity that is supported by healthy demand that is created by the world's population getting wealthier."
Nonetheless, there are reasons why the commodity price of gold is languishing. Other experts point out that gold no longer plays a key role in world financial markets or as a hedge in investment portfolios. Moreover, some of the biggest owners of gold are selling. Central banks in six countries -- Canada, Australia, Belgium, the Netherlands, Argentina and the Czech Republic -- have already sold bullion from their reserves. Joining Britain will be Switzerland, selling more than 1,000 tons. The International Monetary Fund may also become a seller.
The new European Central Bank has determined that its member countries will commit gold for 15 percent of the reserves backing the euro currency. But according to the Gold Survey for 1999, published by Gold Fields Mineral Services Ltd. of London, three countries have considerably more gold -- Germany, with 32 percent of its reserves in bullion, France with 40 percent and Italy with 45 percent.
The possibility that chunks of these holdings, totaling 10,000 metric tons, will spill into a market with total annual demand just over 4,000 tons worries speculators. The United States has more than 8,000 metric tons, according to the Gold Survey.
Other forces at work in the financial markets are hurting gold.
One has been the lending of gold by central bankers to hedge funds, which have sold into the market with the hope of repaying the banks later with cheaper bars. Interest on this lending is a source of revenue for the central banks. Another has been distress selling within battered Asian economies, which led to a large increase in what is known in the industry as scrap supplies. Last year, scrap rose 70 percent, to almost 1,000 tons, Gold Fields said.
Mr. Munk expressed belief that the gold market would absorb the central bank sales without much disruption as long as the bankers make their intentions clear.
"Once you have transparency, the market is large enough," he said. "The gold market is as liquid as for any currency."
Absorbing central bank sales may take time. But the annual demand for gold has been slightly above 4,000 metric tons for the last few years, while new supplies from mines have totaled about 2,500 metric tons. Low prices have taken some high-cost mines out of production.
Mr. Munk acknowledged that few rich people now hoard gold bars to protect themselves against economic uncertainty -- they prefer United States Government bonds. But, he said, the impact has been offset by new wealth that economic growth is creating not just in North America and Europe but also in such countries as India, China and Turkey.
"The explosion of the consumer pool, the trillions of dollars of wealth created by the stock market -- all that just increases a constantly growing fundamental demand," he said. "And it has nothing to do with people who 15 years ago bought gold because they believed in the doomsday of the financial world, like my grandfather did."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barrick's chairman, Peter Munk, maintains that the gold business has in fact held up relatively well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABX (TSX) (93%); ABX (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (93%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (93%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); PERU (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (86%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); QUEBEC, CANADA (54%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (69%); 

COMPANY: BARRICK GOLD CORP BARRICK GOLD CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARRICK GOLD CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); PERU (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (86%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); QUEBEC, CANADA (54%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (69%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; MINES AND MINING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS GOLD MARKETS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); MINES & MINING (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); 

PERSON: PRITCHARD, TIMOTHY; MUNK, PETER PETER MUNK (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



23 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Princeton Puzzle: Where Have Jewish Students Gone?

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J.

 BODY:
As a high school student 50 years ago, Stanley Katz thought Princeton University was paradise, a place inhabited by pipe-smoking scholars with patches on their elbows and mustaches. "I said, 'Katz, that's you.' "
But as he learned more about Princeton, it dawned on him "that this was the last place in the Ivy League -- except maybe Dartmouth -- that was for me," he said. "It became clear to me that if not anti-Semitic, it wasn't congenial to Jews." He went to Harvard. 
 Today Mr. Katz is a Princeton professor and president-elect of its Center for Jewish Life, and the university is a far more welcoming place. The president, the provost and the dean of the college are Jewish. So are many of the faculty members. Professor Katz's center is a lively place, with a large kosher kitchen and a stream of events, from casino nights and swing dances to Talmud classes and Friday night services.
So how can it be, Mr. Katz and other Jews on campus are asking, that Princeton's Jewish enrollment has fallen by nearly half since the early 1980's -- to about 10 percent, or about 450 undergraduates, from a high of 18 percent? Why do other Ivy League campuses -- Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Penn -- manage to keep Jewish populations of at least a quarter and in some cases more than a third? (The figures, drawn from surveys by the University of California at Los Angeles that ask first-year college students their religious preferences, are considered rough estimates.)
The decline in Jewish enrollment at Princeton is not new: the surveys suggest that it reached the present level in the early 90's. And the figures closely track a nationwide pattern; the percentage of college students who identify themselves as Jews has declined steadily over the last two decades.
But in April, a series of front-page articles in The Daily Princetonian, the student newspaper, called attention to the decline and touched off a campuswide debate.
It is a touchy subject, and not just because Princeton thought it had long since put to rest its ancient reputation for anti-Semitism. Many Jews and non-Jews on campus point out that even at 10 percent, Princeton's Jewish enrollment far exceeds the Jewish makeup of the general population, which is roughly two percent. (Minority enrollment -- black, Hispanic and Asian-American students -- is now 27 percent, not markedly different from the general population.)
And some Jewish students and professors say they fear the discussion could make matters worse, by discouraging Jewish high school students from applying to Princeton. "This series of articles likely hurt the likelihood of Princeton gaining more Jewish students," a sophomore, Rebecca Opdyke, wrote in a letter to the student newspaper.
Other Jewish students protested that the articles did not capture the rich lives they lead at Princeton, not only in terms of religion, but also socially and educationally.
"Maybe Princeton is labeled as a school Jews don't go to, but that's not true," said Todd S. Rich, a junior economics major from East Brunswick who is president of the Center for Jewish Life. "We're thriving."
The center has even set up a task force to consider what it might do "to counter this negative image," said Princeton's rabbi, James S. Diamond. "The reality is that the quality of Jewish life here is probably as good as anywhere in the country," he said.
At Princeton, the history of anti-Semitism is tangled with the college's exclusive private eating clubs, whose anti-Semitism was visible as recently as 1958, when they denied bids to nearly two dozen students, many of them Jewish. Today, not only are Jews welcomed at the clubs -- at roughly half now, members simply sign up for the club of their choice -- but some Jewish students even cite the clubs as one of Princeton's attractions.
The comfortable intertwining was visible one recent Friday evening when some students attended Shabbat services in tuxedos and ball gowns; they were going directly from the Jewish center to the eating clubs, which celebrate the last day of classes with black-tie dinners.
The changes in the clubs are not the only sign of Princeton's openness to Jews. William G. Bowen, Princeton's president from 1972 to 1988, signaled his interest in drawing more Jewish students in several ways. He visited Jewish day schools. He invited the chancellor of the Jewish Theological Seminary to deliver the annual year-end baccalaureate address. He created a kosher dining hall on campus. And he initiated plans for the Center for Jewish Life.
"I felt it was very important that Princeton be much more inclusive in all of dimensions than it had been, and I and others made an effort to make the place be more welcoming to Jews and others," Mr. Bowen said.
"I didn't think about it in terms of numbers," he added. "I thought about it as a group of students who were outstanding and who weren't coming to the university in the numbers they should have, based on what they had to offer. Or if they came, they weren't getting involved in the life of the university."
Some faculty members say that after Mr. Bowen's departure, there was a relaxation of efforts to reach out to high school students -- including Jews -- who might otherwise see Princeton as an upper-crust enclave where they would not fit in. "The point about perceptions and images is that you have to work hard to maintain them," a history professor said. "In the 70's and 80's they were beginning to change."
Nobody is advocating affirmative action for Jews. Fred A. Hargadon, Princeton's dean of admissions, says his office does not consider religion at all and does not view the religious composition of other colleges as a useful measure.
"No two colleges do it the same way," he said, "and we don't all admit the same 1,000 kids."
He says his office visits Jewish schools like any other high school. This month, for example, he visited the Hebrew Academy of the Five Towns and Rockaway High School in Cedarhurst on Long Island, a meeting that drew nearly 600 students and parents. Princeton took one of the academy's three applicants this year and put another on its waiting list.
Daniel Vitow, the high school's principal, said the five-hour visit was evidence of Princeton's interest in his students.
"For a senior admissions person to do this sent a very clear message that he's very favorably disposed to our kids," Dr. Vitow said.
But Albert Goetz, a college adviser at another Jewish day school, the Ramaz School on Manhattan's East Side, says Princeton seems less interested in his top students than 10 or 15 years ago.
"Princeton is a Garden of Eden for our kids," he said. "It's close to New York. It's beautiful. And you can be Jewish there. We just can't get access."
Some of Princeton's Jewish faculty members say the discussion about Jewish students has put Harold Shapiro, the university's president, in a difficult position because he feels that as a Jew he cannot recruit Jewish students as actively as Mr. Bowen did.
Mr. Shapiro said he saw no bias against Jewish students in Princeton's admissions procedures. But he added, "If there's something we're doing that consciously or unconsciously discriminates against any religion, then we should stop it, but no one has presented me with any evidence."
He goes further, expressing dismay that anyone should think about students based on their religion. "As you know, I'm Jewish, and not only am I Jewish, but I'm very active in the Jewish community," he said. "I know how dangerous it is to be categorized this way."
One answer to those concerned about the number of Jewish students may be an expansion of the student body. A faculty and administration committee that studied Princeton's admissions process last year concluded that the college was turning away many desirable applicants because of its size. (Princeton takes about 1,150 freshmen, compared to about 1,600 at Harvard and 1,350 at Yale.)
The committee recommended that the college expand its entering class by 125 to 150 students. President Shapiro and Dean Hargadon both back such expansion and the trustees are studying the proposal.
In the meantime, the Center for Jewish Life task force is considering ways to encourage more Jewish applicants and to convince those who are admitted to come. The main strategy so far is to try to showcase Princeton's Jewish life for high school students and their families.
As Mr. Rich, the student president of the Center for Jewish Life, puts it, "We want to take concrete steps to show how very happy we are."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harold Shapiro, Princeton's president, says he has seen no evidence that bias in admissions has depressed the percentage of Jewish students. Stanley Katz once deemed Princeton unfriendly to Jews and attended Harvard instead. Now he is to head Princeton's Center for Jewish Life. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Dwindling Numbers"
Princeton University's declining Jewish enrollment reflects a national trend. Graph plots Jewish students as a percentage of Princeton Unversity freshmen and total U.S. college freshmen, from 1977 through 1998. (Source: National Norms Annual Survey Reports, American Council on Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (59%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (59%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (59%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (59%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: JEWS JEWS & JUDAISM (95%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); SMOKING (73%); RELIGION (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W STANLEY KATZ (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



24 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: A New Approach to North Korea

 BODY:
North Korea can improve relations with the United States by responding positively to the offer William Perry, the former Defense Secretary, delivered last week. Mr. Perry carried a letter from President Clinton offering to phase out American economic sanctions and begin steps toward diplomatic recognition of North Korea. But Washington will do so only if Pyongyang commits itself to give up its nuclear weapons ambitions and long-range missile programs. 
 Mr. Perry got a warm welcome, although he did not get to meet with the North's leader, Kim Jong Il. Pyongyang should be given reasonable time to reply to the Clinton proposal, but would be most unwise to reject it.
Washington's new offer goes well beyond the 1994 agreement that froze North Korea's nuclear weapons program in exchange for help in constructing Western-style power reactors. The North continues to comply with that agreement, as shown again last week when American inspectors found no evidence of building at a site Washington once feared was being prepared for new nuclear installations.
But provocative North Korean actions in other areas, like last year's surprise test of a long-range missile, and repeated requests for large sums of money in exchange for further arms control progress, have left Washington wary of making further incremental deals with the North.
North Korea, for its part, feels that it was led to expect some progress toward ending sanctions and moving toward recognition in 1994 and that Washington has not yet followed through on these issues. The Administration can return to these questions now because of a recent change in South Korean policies toward the North. Kim Dae Jung, who became South Korea's President last year, favors a conciliatory policy toward Pyongyang, including an end to American sanctions. He hopes that expanding economic and diplomatic ties will encourage gradual change in the North and decrease the chances of a new war on the Korean Peninsula.
Washington is right to coordinate America's policies with Seoul's by also offering better ties. But there can be little progress unless the North abandons its nuclear and missile ambitions. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (54%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; MISSILES; ATOMIC WEAPONS MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (76%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRENDS (71%); INSPECTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KIM JONG IL BILL CLINTON (88%); KIM JONG IL (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



25 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: After Three-Month Recess, Microsoft TrialResumes

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
After a three-month recess and unsuccessful efforts to reach a settlement, the rebuttal phase of the Microsoft antitrust trial opened today with a concerted attack on the previous testimony of the company's chief economic witness.
In the attack, Franklin M. Fisher, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who is testifying on behalf of the Government for the second time, called the economic analysis of Richard L. Schmalensee, his former student and a fellow economist at M.I.T., "peculiar," "ridiculous," "credulous" and naive. 
 Mr. Fisher is the first of six witnesses, three for each side, who are to take the stand in this, the final stage of testimony that is intended to allow the Government and the Microsoft Corporation to rebut charges made during the earlier stage of the trial. Mr. Schmalensee, a dean at M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Management, will return to the stand later this month.
Under pressure from Federal District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, lawyers for both sides have agreed to complete all of the rebuttal testimony by July 4. Government officials say that in this time, they hope to fill some holes in their case -- while doing nothing to damage the commanding advantage they believe they already hold, based on Micrsoft's lackluster performance in court during the earlier portion of the trial.
Microsoft intends to challenge the credibility of the other side's case, a strategy that proved effective for David Boies, the Government's lead trial lawyer, in his earlier questioning of Microsoft witnesses. But by its choice of witnesses and topics of emphasis, Microsoft also appears to be trying to mitigate damages, to soften the possible remedies, should it be found to have violated antitrust laws.
Both Mr. Fisher and Mr. Schmalensee testified at length earlier in the trial on the question of whether Microsoft holds a legal monopoly in personal-computer operating systems -- a critical question that will determine what kind of remedies can be applied if the Government prevails.
In his testimony early this year, Mr. Schmalensee tried to make the case that Microsoft was not a monopoly, largely by suggesting that the few, marginal competitors Microsoft now faces, or others, could conceivably become serious challengers in the future.
Mr. Fisher tried yesterday to puncture that argument, saying, "Just because there are unknown future threats does not mean Microsoft doesn't have a monopoly today."
Mr. Boies led Mr. Fisher through a carefully choreographed series of questions during the direct examination -- a new practice for this trial. Earlier, witnesses submitted their direct testimony in writing.
Mr. Fisher called several of Mr. Schmalensee's analyses "reasonably confused," adding at one point, in a discussion of market dominance, "I don't think Dean Schmalensee understood this issue."
Later in the day, Mr. Boies led Mr. Fisher through a critical dissection of several charts and graphics that Mr. Schmalensee had offered as evidence. Mr. Fisher argued that in several of them, his colleague had made incorrect assumptions and offered improper numbers, leading to erroneous conclusions.
For example, Mr. Schmalensee had tried to make the case that Microsoft was charging too little for Windows -- something a monopolist was unlikely to do. He had then offered a complex economic formula for a realistic price.
But this afternoon, Mr. Fisher said, "he made a big mistake."
Mr. Schmalensee's formula put the average price of a personal computer at $2,000 or $2,500, when, in fact, the average price is now about $950, Mr. Fisher said.
The witness also criticized Mr. Schmalensee's analysis of the market share for Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser, which showed Netscape as a strong competitor. By Mr. Fisher's analysis, Internet Explorer now has about 62 percent of the corporate market compared with 38 percent for Netscape, a unit of America Online.
But in the end, Mr. Fisher said, it did not really matter whether Microsoft had 40 percent of the browswer market, or 60 percent or 80 percent.
A central tenet of the Government's case is that Microsoft fought to crush Netscape because Microsoft feared that Netscape's browser could one day be used as an alternative to the Windows operating system. If that happened, Microsoft would lose its crucial advantage, the fact that software developers write programs for Windows first.
"The goal was not necessarily to drive Netscape to zero," Mr. Fisher said. It was, he said, to make sure that Netscape did not maintain a market share that would ever allow sofware developers to write for Netscape alone. So by that measure, Mr. Fisher said, "Microsoft has already won."

 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (92%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; STATES (US) ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); WITNESSES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); JUDGES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); DAMAGES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); 

PERSON: FISHER, FRANKLIN M; SCHMALENSEE, RICHARD L; JACKSON, THOMAS PENFIELD (JUDGE); BRINKLEY, JOEL FRANKLIN M FISHER (96%); RICHARD L SCHMALENSEE (92%); DAVID BOIES (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



26 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place -- The ReturnOf Mighty Mice;
After 18 Months in the Cellar, Small-Capitalization Stocks Inch Up on Their Big Cousins

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
Small-cap stocks are on a tear, but can they make up all the lost ground of the last few years?
Spurred by the strengthening economy, frenetic takeover activity and hints of higher inflation that would make it easier for smaller concerns to raise prices, small-company stock indexes have jumped 10 percent since April after lagging behind the larger companies that fill the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index by the widest margins in a generation. Small stocks even held up well the last three weeks, as the broad market dropped about 5 percent. 
 Many market strategists expect small-cap companies -- with market values up to $1 billion to $2 billion -- to continue to outperform the larger-company stocks that have fueled the stock market boom. Despite their strong returns so far in the second quarter, smaller-company stocks remain near their cheapest valuations in memory, compared with other stocks. Not only could that give them an extra boost if the stock market goes up, but, perhaps as demonstrated this month, provide a cushion compared with bigger-company stocks if the market falters.
"I think this could be the real thing for a while," said Jeremy J. Siegel, professor of finance at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. "I am impressed with the relative strength they've been showing."
But even small-cap fans are not sure these stocks will ever approach the valuations they achieved in the past, when they occasionally traded at more than twice the price-to-earnings ratios of bigger stocks.
There are a number of reasons.
First, while small stocks once were the only place many investors put money for higher-risk investments, now emerging markets, Internet stocks, options, and other riskier bets draw much of that money. Second, larger companies will benefit more from continued economic globalization. And third, some say, the generally inflationary era of the last few decades is not likely to repeat itself.
T. Rowe Price's New Horizons fund has been a longtime barometer for small-cap valuations. Until this year, the fund's price-to-earnings ratio fluctuated between one and two times the P/E of the S.& P. 500. But it fell to 0.78 at the end of March, the lowest level in 38 years, though with the recent outperformance of small stocks, the ratio has risen somewhat.
Investors should get used to seeing smaller-company stocks trade at lower relative valuations mostly because the rising prices of goods and services that has paced small-stock performance since the end of World War II will not be a big factor again, predicts James Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management, the investment-management arm of Wells Fargo.
"We're going to a new relative valuation range," he said. "All of these historical relationships are going by the wayside. Small-cap investors at least have to give some thought to that."
Mr. Siegel agrees. "I'm still not of the belief that they're going to outperform big stocks" over the long-term, he said. "The globalization of the world economy is still going to be a major theme in the next decade, and big-cap stocks are going to benefit most from that scenario."
Not that any of that will hurt small-cap stocks anytime soon, given how much they have trailed the rest of the market. The Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks had its worst year ever against the S.& P. in 1998, lagging behind by 30.8 percent. And the last two times the New Horizons fund's P/E relative to the S.& P. dipped below one -- it hit 0.95 in March 1977 and September 1990 -- small stocks subsequently outperformed for several years.
Further, predicts Mary Lisanti, a longtime small-cap fund manager, smaller-company stocks' earnings growth will eventually overtake that of larger companies, causing their current valuation discounts to narrow. "There's no question they're cheap; everybody knows that," said Ms. Lisanti, chief investment officer for equities at Northstar Investment Management in Stamford, Conn.
"It's probably the best of times" to be a small-cap investor, she added. "The risk is still relatively low, the fundamentals are starting to improve, and no one is paying attention. You have a window of opportunity here for a couple of months before everybody gets excited."
Corporate insiders have noticed. "We're seeing a higher level of buying in small-cap stocks" by executives of these companies, said Bob Gabele, director of insider research at First Call/Thomson Financial. "Insiders play for value, and they're saying there's a lot of value in these small-cap companies."
But the most compelling evidence in support of a small-cap renaissance may be what amounts to a wave of corporate arbitrage that is washing over small stocks. Larger companies have been acquiring small-cap companies this year at a furious pace.
Merrill Lynch predicts the number of small-cap mergers and acquisitions this year involving companies with market values of under $2 billion will be the highest in a decade. Most notable is the surge in leveraged-buyout activity, in which an investor group acquires a company mostly with debt and uses its cash flow or asset sales to repay the money. In fact, Merrill Lynch estimates there will be as many small-cap leveraged buyouts in 1999 as in the previous four years.
Why so many deals? In large part because bigger companies have been able to offer good-size premiums to persuade small company managements and shareholders to sell. At the same time, the bigger players still are able to use the acquisitions to bolster their per-share earnings immediately by paying for them with their own more richly valued stock.
There is even some irony here: Stocks are trading at lofty levels not seen since the heyday of the Nifty 50, the large growth stocks that led the market's charge in the early 1970's, as many investors have abandoned the notion of Benjamin Graham and David L. Dodd that stocks should be bought at prices that reflect their underlying value. But by rapidly buying these small companies on the cheap -- and using their own more expensive stock to pay for it -- larger companies are taking advantage of the sort of unusual price discrepancies that students of the famous investing scholars love.
The current activity amounts to "a Graham-and-Dodd behavior that we haven't seen in the market" in some time, said Satya Pradhuman, the director of small-cap research at Merrill Lynch.
Preston Athey, manager of the T. Rowe Price Small-Cap Value fund, said 18 out of about 210 companies in his fund had been taken over the last seven months.
Never before has takeover activity been so high among small companies, he said. "This is new and different," Mr. Athey added. "The disparity in valuations has become so large that the economics of doing a deal are just overwhelming."
For mutual-fund investors, small-cap funds with strong three-year returns through April 30 include Robertson Stephens Emerging Growth A, with a 29.6 percent three-year annualized return; Berger New Generation, 23.4 percent; Oppenheimer Enterprise A, B and C shares, 23.2 percent, 22.3 percent and 22.3 percent, respectively; Value Line Special Situations, 22.5 percent; Dreyfus Emerging Leaders, 21.9 percent, and Baron Growth, 19.3 percent.
The funds are open to new investors, have at least $100 million in net assets and require no more than a $5,000 initial purchase. All data are from Morningstar Inc., the fund tracking company in Chicago.
One reason often cited for the difficulty small stocks may have in the future is their lack of liquidity -- the ability to buy or sell large blocks of stocks easily without affecting the price through your own transaction. That could keep many large institutional investors away. But that very effect has contributed to small stocks' recent rally, says Jean-Marie Eveillard, the Societe General fund manager.
Since big stocks had been beating small stocks by such wide margins until recently, pension funds, foundations and other large money managers have had to buy huge blocks of smaller stocks to bring their portfolio weightings back in line with their targets, Mr. Eveillard said.
"After four years of big stocks doing so much better, you probably have entire portfolios that are almost 100 percent in big-growth stocks," he said.
"It's not easy for them to rebalance," he added, because liquidity is with the big-growth companies. So when big portfolio managers do go into the market to buy smaller companies, shareholders in those stocks get a significant pop.
Mr. Eveillard predicts the valuation gap will continue to narrow, though he is less certain how that will happen.
"There are two ways the gap in valuations can close," he said. "One is for small stocks to catch up; another way is for big stocks to catch down. So far it has been more a matter of small stocks catching up, but who knows?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Andy Chen/The New York Times)
 
Graph/Chart: "The Mouse Roars"
Small-capitalization stocks, which have long been overshadowed by big company stocks, have lately been outperforming them. But they still have a long way to go to catch up. Graph plots the percentage change since March 31, 1999, Jan. 2, 1998 and Jan. 2, 1997, for the S.& P. small-cap 600 index and the S.& P. 500 index as of yesterday's close.
 
Total returns of small-cap mutual funds
Second quarter 1999, as of yesterday's close; Largest funds by assets
 
American Funds Small-Cap World fund: 8.57%
Fidelity Low-Priced Stock fund: 10.55%
Franklin Small-Cap Growth fund: 5.96%
Kaufmann fund: 0.59%
Vanguard Small Capitalization Index fund: 10.33%
Aim Agressive Growth fund: 5.37%
 
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Morningstar Inc.)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BONDS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); GLOBALIZATION (50%); 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



27 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: From Lawsuits to Tea Bags, Challenges to Commuter Tax

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 1

 BODY:
Looking to eliminate the New York City commuter tax, elected officials from New Jersey and Connecticut unleashed an assortment of lawsuits, legislation and tea bags today in an effort to demonstrate that the tax discriminates against out-of-state commuters.
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman traveled to a busy Hoboken train station during the evening rush hour to announce that, as expected, the state had filed a class-action lawsuit in New York State Supreme Court challenging a new law that exempts only suburban New Yorkers from the tax. 
 The suit, filed by New Jersey's Acting Attorney General, Paul Zoubek, charges that it is a violation of the United States Constitution for New York to continue levying the 0.45 percent wage tax on the 240,000 New Jersey commuters and thousands of workers who live in Connecticut, Pennsylvania and other states.
In Washington, two New Jersey Congressmen, Bob Franks and Rodney Frelinghuysen, introduced legislation that would ban any state from taxing out-of-state commuters at a higher rate than its own residents.
And in Jersey City, six elected officials gathered outside a PATH commuter train station and held the most peculiar protest, emptying a few small bags of orange pekoe tea into the Hudson River in symbolic re-enactment of the Boston Tea Party tax protest of 1773.
That city's Mayor, Brett Schundler, who organized the protest, said that he planned to file a class-action lawsuit in Federal court and would use a nonprofit citizen advocacy group, Empower the People, to pay for newspaper ads urging commuters to join the court battle.
"This law creates a protectionist barrier, a tariff, against out-of-state residents," Mr. Schundler said. "And just as the colonists dumped tea into Boston Harbor to protest taxation without representation, we did it today to show we won't stand for this kind of unfair treatment."
Commuters and elected officials in New Jersey and Connecticut have been vigorously opposing the tax since Republicans in the New York Legislature and Gov. George E. Pataki first suggested exempting suburban New Yorkers from the tax last month. The change in the tax code, which was intended to help a Republican State Senate candidate in Rockland County, will cost New York City at least $210 million a year in lost revenue from suburban New York State commuters.
New Jersey commuters account for another $110 million, according to Governor Whitman, and commuters from Connecticut and elsewhere pay another $40 million in city taxes.
Also today, Connecticut's Attorney General, Richard Blumenthal, filed a lawsuit against the tax. Mr. Blumenthal told The Associated Press that "Our action today will clean up New York's constitutional mess."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who was outraged that his Republican counterparts in Albany enacted the law over his objections, said today that he had been expecting the lawsuits.
The Mayor has also vowed to fight the law in court, although he wants to see only the exemption repealed, and all commuters liable for the tax.
"This is really an example of shooting yourself in the foot, of the worst kind," Mr. Giuliani said today, criticizing Governor Pataki and other political leaders in Albany. "In an effort to have everybody position themselves with a particular Senate race in Rockland, and everybody playing gotcha in Albany, what they did was get themselves. And you look back on it as maybe an example of what's wrong with our politics in the latter part of our 20th century."
The lawsuits announced today are part of a growing number of legal challenges to the law. Two private lawyers filed a lawsuit last week in New York State Supreme Court, and Pennsylvania officials say that they, too, will challenge the tax.
But Governor Pataki, who says the tax exemption will help stimulate New York's economy, believes the courts will uphold it, said his spokesman, Michael McKeon.
"We are confident that the law will be upheld," Mr. McKeon said. "But even if the plaintiffs are successful, New Yorkers will still get a $210 million tax cut."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a train station in Hoboken, N.J., Gov. Christine Todd Whitman announced that New Jersey was suing New York over its commuter tax. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (57%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (57%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; COMMUTING LITIGATION (94%); SUITS & CLAIMS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRAINS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); PROTECTIONISM (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID RUDY GIULIANI (58%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (58%); RODNEY P FRELINGHUYSEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



28 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2906 words

HEADLINE: POISON ISLAND: a special report;
At Bleak Asian Site, Killer Germs Survive

BYLINE: By JUDITH MILLER 

DATELINE: VOZROZHDENIYE ISLAND, Uzbekistan

 BODY:
In the spring of 1988, germ scientists 850 miles east of Moscow were ordered to undertake their most critical mission.
The scientists, working in great haste and total secrecy in Sverdlovsk, first transferred hundreds of tons of anthrax bacteria -- enough to destroy the world's people many times over -- into giant stainless steel canisters. 
 Then they poured in bleach to decontaminate the deadly pink powder, packed the canisters onto a train two dozen cars long and sent the cargo almost a thousand miles across Russia and Kazakhstan to this remote island in the heart of the Aral Sea, American and Central Asian officials say.
Here Russian soldiers dug huge pits and poured the sludge into the ground, burying the germs and, Moscow hoped, a grave political threat.
While Mikhail S. Gorbachev was pressing glasnost and perestroika and strengthening ties with the West, intelligence evidence was mounting in Washington that the Soviet Union, contrary to its treaty pledges, was producing tons of deadly germs that the world had banned.
The stockpile had to be destroyed in case the United States and Britain demanded an inspection.
Vozrozhdeniye Island was a natural choice. Until the military finally left here for good in 1992, Renaissance Island, as it translates from the Russian, had been the Soviet Union's major open-air biological testing site. Today the island, which the former Soviet republics of Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan share, is the world's largest anthrax burial ground.
For the United States, it is an intelligence gold mine. At the invitation of Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, American military scientists and intelligence experts have been secretly traveling here for the last four years to survey the island and take samples of the buried bacteria.
What they have found is stunning, the experts say. Tests of soil samples from 6 of 11 burial pits show that although the anthrax was soaked in bleach at least twice -- once in the 66-gallon containers and again after it was dumped and buried for decades under three to five feet of sand -- some spores are still alive and potentially deadly.
Tests performed by American military laboratories have also shown that the anthrax vaccine being given to 2.4 million American military personnel is effective against the Russian strain of this deadly scourge, -- at least the strain found here.
While this has reassured the Clinton Administration, the discovery of live spores of buried anthrax has alarmed Kazakhstan and especially worries Uzbekistan, which has been exploring for oil on the two-thirds of the island it controls.
Because the Aral Sea is shrinking -- a result of wrongheaded Soviet irrigation policies -- this deserted, isolated island has grown from 77 square miles to 770 and will soon be connected to the mainland.
As a result, Uzbek and Kazakh experts fear, the buried anthrax spores could escape their sandy tomb, stirred up by carriers like gophers and other rodents, lizards and birds, and brought to Uzbek and Kazakh territory.
The disease is spread from animals to people by direct contact; it is treatable with antibiotics if detected immediately. In weapons, it is disbursed as an aerosol to be inhaled.
Central Asian and American officials fear that as access to the island becomes easier, the buried anthrax could be dug up by terrorists and used to make more of it.
In addition, officials said, exposure could threaten a local population whose health is already abysmal. International medical experts are just starting to assess which of the residents' many chronic ailments are attributable to poverty and environmental degradation, and which might be linked to the region's biological and chemical legacy.
 
The Island Breeding of Germs, Breeding of Fears
 Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, which have both officially renounced weapons of mass destruction, have independently asked the United States for help in assessing and cleaning up this terrible biological legacy of Soviet rule.
Uzbekistan also permitted this correspondent to visit Renaissance Island earlier this year -- the first visit by a journalist -- and to interview officials and scientists concerned about the hazards.
The trip, coupled with interviews with about two dozen scientists, Government officials and military experts in Central Asia, Russia and the United States, has shed light on one of the most closely guarded biological secrets of the cold war.
Although President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia issued an edict in 1992 closing the site and vowing that the laboratory would be dismantled and decontaminated within three years, the cash-strapped Moscow Government never followed through. And Russia has never acknowledged responsibility for the anthrax cemetery here.
Military scientists at the United States Army Medical Research and Material Command and other laboratories where the samples are being studied refused comment on the island and the tests. But other officials said the labs are still deciphering the Russian anthrax's molecular structure and trying to determine why spores collected from some of the pits did not die.
"We have always known that anthrax is hard to kill," said one military expert, who would discuss the issue only if he were not identified. "But this strain has proven especially durable, and this wasn't even the most powerful strain the Soviets made."
Signs of life diminish as the Soviet-era MI-8 helicopter speeds toward this island on a 90-minute flight from Nukus, the nearest Uzbek military base. As the chopper approaches the island, fishermen in their wooden boats disappear and what was once a living sea becomes marshland. Scraggly trees give way to patches of sagebrush until, finally, there is nothing left to see save salt-covered, cement-colored sand that the Aral Sea once covered, now as dry and cracked as an ancient face. Nothing seems to live here.
Given its remote location and inhospitable climate, the island was long a favored Russian spot for secretive arrangements. A study soon to be published by the Monterey Institute of International Studies in California concludes that the island and Aralsk, a former port city now about 60 miles inland in Kazakhstan, were first used by the K.G.B.'s predecessor as exile camps for kulaks, the private farmers whom Stalin repressed.
In 1936, wrote Gulbarshyn Bozheyeva, the study's principle author, Vozrozhdeniye and Aralsk, which administered the island, were placed under the Ministry of Defense, which in 1954 built a biological-weapons test site on the island, calling it Aralsk-7.
"The lack of vegetation," she wrote, "hot and dry climate and sandy soil reaching 60 degrees Centigrade in summer" -- 140 degrees Fahrenheit -- were perfect for germ testing in that they would "reduce the spread and survival of pathogenic organisms."
American officials said that although satellites recorded some unusual activity on the island in 1988, the United States did not learn that the Soviets had buried anthrax from Sverdlosk here until 1992, when Kanatjan Alibekov, or Ken Alibek as he is now known, a high-ranking germ-weapons official, defected.
Mr. Alibek had been the director of the giant Soviet anthrax production plant at Stepnogorsk, in Kazakhstan. Between 1988 and his defection, he was the deputy director of Biopreparat, a secret network of about 40 supposedly peaceful sites, including Stepnogorsk, that provided civilian cover for work on biological weapons.
In his book, "Biohazard" (Random House, 1999), Mr. Alibek does not disclose either that anthrax was buried on the island or what he told American officials during interviews after he defected. But he does report that such germs as tularemia, Q-fever, brucellosis, glanders and plague were tested on Vozrozhdeniye beginning in the 1970's by Ministry of Defense labs and later by Biopreparat.
In 1986 and 1987, he added in a recent interview, a strain of plague that was resistant to standard antibiotics was tested. In 1987, the book states, Dr. Alibek's scientists tested the powerful anthrax that he had developed at Stepnogorsk.
The Monterey study and Dr. Alibek say the Soviet military labs also tested typhus, botulinum toxin, Venezuelan equine encephalitis, smallpox and microbial strains with characteristics useful in warfare, like high virulence and resistance to ultraviolet rays or heat.
Today, evidence of the grim research abounds. As one approaches the vast laboratory complex and test range, a visitor sees the telephone poles a kilometer apart on which detectors to measure germ agents were mounted and to which animals were tied during open-air testing.
The abandoned laboratory and high-containment unit that once handled the deadliest of agents have been stripped of equipment, pipes and even their floor and wall tiles -- shiny, light-green mosaics decorated with a fish motif. What the Soviets left behind, scavengers -- apparently impervious to fears of contamination -- have stripped away for sale at bazaars in Nukus and faraway Tashkent, intelligence experts say.
The enclosed breeding areas that once housed thousands of animals killed in the tests -- rabbits, guinea pigs, white mice and hamsters, and larger animals like horses, sheep, donkeys, monkeys and baboons -- are now empty, windows smashed or missing, roofs collapsed.
Hundreds of small cages are stacked in a dilapidated storage room; in another stands a human-sized cage, apparently for what scientists call "nonhuman primates." Hundreds of primates died hideous deaths, sometimes in a single experiment, say Russian and American scientists.
The stench is familiar to veterans of the gruesome world of germ warfare -- a mixture of bleach, dust, animal dung and death.
On the northern part of the site, less than a mile from the laboratory, are the three-story barracks, homes, kindergarten and cafeteria used by the Russians scientists and their families -- about a thousand people in all.
Today, the children's playground with its swings and a jungle gym are an eerie reminder of those who once called this forbidding place home. Russian scientists who worked here said most of the children were not vaccinated against the agents that were tested just a few miles downwind.
"We didn't test unless the wind was blowing south, away from the living quarters," said Gennadi L. Lepyoshkin, a former Soviet colonel who was Stepnogorsk's director after Dr. Alibek and was vaccinated against many of the lethal pathogens he tested.
In a recent interview at Stepnogorsk, Dr. Lipyoshkin, who is now director of Kazakhstan's National Center for Biotechnology and a co-author of the Monterey study, spoke almost nostalgically of his weeks here in the mid-1980's, testing Stepnogorsk's "products."
"The island was smaller and beautiful then, and the lab much closer to the sea," Dr. Lepyoshkin said, displaying the water colors he painted and landscapes he sketched when he was not working with deadly microbes, playing volleyball, drinking vodka or engaging in other island pastimes.
 
The Residue
Seeking U.S. Aid To Clean Up Site
In interviews in Tashkent, Uzbek officials said it was only after their country became independent in 1992 that they understood the implications of their biological legacy.
"We were shocked when we first learned the real picture," said Isan M. Mustafoev, the Deputy Foreign Minister.
Alarmed by the health and environmental impacts of unconventional weapons, President Islom Karimov renounced them.
In 1995, after Russia refused to tell Uzbekistan what chemical or biological sites had been built on Uzbek territory or what had been tested or buried here, Uzbekistan asked the United States for help, Mr. Mustafoev said. On May 25 the United States and Uzbekistan signed an accord that provides up to $6 million in aid to dismantle and decontaminate a former Soviet chemical-weapons testing site near the Aral Sea.
Kazakhstan quietly permitted Pentagon officials to visit Vozrozhdeniye in 1995. Two years later Uzbekistan also invited more American experts to take samples of the buried anthrax, Mr. Mustafoev said.
Because the Uzbek Ministry of Defense rather than Foreign Affairs was responsible for the American mission, Mr. Mustafoev said, his ministry was not told precisely what the tests showed about the samples that American teams collected, most recently in October. The last mission's goal, American officials said, was to determine why the some anthrax had survived.
In their forays, the Americans wore white overalls like space suits and gas masks with respirators. All team members were vaccinated. "It was like a moon landing," one official said, "only scarier."
Scientists said much can be learned from the material.
William C. Patrick 3d, who made germ weapons for the United States before President Nixon outlawed them nearly three decades ago, said the samples would enable scientists to determine not only the strength of the Soviet strain or strains, but also whether the anthrax had been genetically engineered or enhanced in other ways for virulence or other qualities considered desirable for its use in weapons.
Neither Dr. Patrick nor any officials directly involved in the missions would discuss what the samples had shown. But several experts confirmed that the tests indicated that the anthrax vaccine now being given American soldiers was effective. Molecular testing on the strains was continuing, they added.
Mr. Mustafoev said the national oil company, which is now exploring for oil on Uzbekistan's part of the island, is not drilling close to the buried anthrax. "No amount of oil is worth risking human lives," he said.
Though Uzbekistan is deeply concerned about the potential danger, decontaminating the island, given its size and the amount of anthrax, would be prohibitively expensive, Mr. Mustafoev and American officials agreed.
But Kazakhstan has asked American help in assessing contamination levels, which the Administration is encouraging Uzbek and Kazakh officials to work on jointly with American experts. And all three countries have been pressing Russia to provide more information about what happened here.
Milton Leitenberg, a professor and expert on Russia's unconventional weapons, said that in 1987 Moscow listed Aralsk -- but not the island -- among its germ-related sites, a listing required by the 1972 convention that banning germ warfare.
In its 1992 declaration, Russia finally listed the island, but as a site where only defensive testing for vaccines and materials had been performed. "The Russians," Professor Leitenberg concludes, "have never come clean about these programs."
 
The Neighbors
The Poor and Sick Could Get Even Sicker
The people who live near the island know all too well how little Russia cared for their safety and welfare. No region of Uzbekistan has been harder hit by the Soviet Union's economic policies or its relentless pursuit of unconventional weapons than Karakalpakstan, a semi-autonomous Uzbek republic of almost 5 million people with their own distinct traditions, language and culture.
In Karakalpakstan, the home of the Aral Sea, the once thriving fishing industry has been devastated, the arable land ruined by overuse of fertilizers and pesticides and the ground water polluted.
Yusup S. Kamalov, an Uzbek scientist who heads the Union for the Defense of the Aral Sea, an independent environmental group, called the situation "next to hopeless."
The sea, once the world's fourth largest lake, now ranks 10th, he said. Its surface water has shrunk by half, its volume reduced by 75 percent. "The sea is dying," he said.
Ian Small, the country manager of Doctors Without Borders, the volunteer physicians' group, says Karakalpaks are among the most "chronically sick people in the former Soviet Union." Ninety eight percent of pregnant women are anemic. Infant mortality rates are comparable to those of sub-Saharan Africa. Two-thirds of the population suffer from some chronic illness, often tuberculosis, whose incidence is the highest in the former Soviet Union.
"We've seen an alarming increase in kidney disease and various cancers," he said. "But because there has been no census since 1989 and health statistics are either nonexistent or unreliable, it's impossible to know whether what we are seeing is the result of the region's general poverty and environmental degradation or the past chemical and biological testing."
While local and Uzbek officials try to provide decent health care, he said, they and his small group, the only international relief group in the region, are overwhelmed. The doctors' group is beginning to conduct a health survey that may shed some light not just on the incidence of diseases but also on their causes.
Most germ-weapon scientists familiar with Vozrozhdeniye say there is little immediate danger to the local population as long as the anthrax remains undisturbed. But with the continued shrinking of the sea, the island is becoming more readily accessible. In some of the pits, anthrax sludge is beginning to leach up through the sand, one recent visitor said.
Although Uzbek officials have kept Renaissance Island closed, local residents will inevitably come in contact with the still deadly bacteria once it is linked to the mainland. "We're now totally in the dark," Mr. Small said. "It's scary not to know what we're dealing with."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Visitors to a former Soviet germ laboratory still wear masks. Uzbek and Kazakh experts hope to clean it up. (Judith Miller/The New York Times)(pg. A1); The decaying barracks at the former Soviet germ-testing site on Renaissance Island, in the Aral Sea. The island is now shared by Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. The barracks once lay near the shore, but the sea is shrinking and the shore is now on the far horizon. (Judith Miller/The New York Times); Yusup S. Kamalov, head of the Union for the Defense of the Aral Sea, next to a fishing trawler that had sunk to the bottom. Once the world's fourth largest lake, the Aral now ranks 10th, he said, and as land bridges form to the mainland, there is fear that toxic residues from the Soviet labs may infect residents. "The sea is dying," he said. (Eric Hilger)(pg. A12)
 
Chart/Photos: "AT ISSUE: A Toxic Island Reaches Toward Land"
As the Aral Sea shrinks, Vozrozhdeniye Island emerges. The island, used by Russian scientists as a burial ground for deadly germs, may reconnect to the mainland as the water receeds, posing a toxic threat to the surrounding area.
 
Photos of Vozrozhdeniye Island, 1987 and 1997
(Source: United States Geological Survey)(pg. A12)
 
Chart/Photos: "CASEBOOK: Testing Anthrax on Animals"
Russian germ scientists on Vozrozhdeniye Island used primates and other animals to study the effects of anthrax. Monkeys were kept in cages (left), and the chart below was used to document the spread of the disease. Scientists would track the infection by marking a drawing of the monkey's lungs.
 
Documenting the disease
 
PRELIMINARY DATA
Appearance, sex, weight, temperature and general condition of the animal.
 
TRACKING THE TEMPERATURE
Temperature on the days of observation.
 
DIAGNOSIS
Conclusions are made about the nature of the disease.
 
SIGNATURES
Space for signatures of scientists and supervisors.
(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); UZBEKISTAN (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); KAZAKHSTAN (96%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: VOZROZHDENIYE OAO (55%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; VOZROZHDENIYE ISLAND; ARAL SEA; GREAT BRITAIN; UZBEKISTAN; KAZAKHSTAN; UNITED STATES (98%); UZBEKISTAN (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); KAZAKHSTAN (96%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ANTHRAX; BACTERIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ANTHRAX (90%); BACTERIA (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); INSPECTIONS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); VACCINES (72%); CEMETERIES (69%); OIL EXPLORATION (60%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (60%); IRRIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: MILLER, JUDITH; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



29 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: New Diet Drug Sells Well, But It Didn'tSet a Record

BYLINE: By DAVID J. MORROW 

 BODY:
After one month on the market, the diet drug Xenical, made by Hoffmann-La Roche, will not go down as the most successful new pharmaceutical in history, but analysts remain confident that it will become a best seller.
Xenical, which the Food and Drug Administration approved in late April, accounted for 96,485 prescriptions during its first four weeks on the market. By contrast, Viagra, Pfizer's impotency pill, and Celebrex, Monsanto's arthritis drug, had prescriptions in their first months of 367,857 and 150,113, respectively, according to I.M.S. Health, an industry consultant. The introductions of Viagra and Celebrex were two of the most successful in pharmaceutical history. 
 Even though Xenical did not topple Viagra, analysts say its first weeks of sales have been stellar, allowing it to build momentum as more doctors become comfortable with it.
After Xenical was introduced, it received much fanfare as a fad drug. Analysts now expect sales to grow as Hoffmann-La Roche combats the fad image by telling doctors about the drug's therapeutic advantages.
"It's important that momentum for Xenical not peak too early," said Viren Mehta, a partner at Mehta Partners, a biopharmaceutical research firm. "You want to have an educated group of physicians about the drug. Hoffmann-La Roche has studies under way that point out the science of the drug."
From its first week on the market, Xenical has inspired controversy. A new kind of drug, it blocks the body's absorption of dietary fat. Despite its new mechanism, Xenical brought recollections of fen-phen, a weight-loss drug cocktail that was removed from the market in 1997 over concerns that it caused heart valve damage.
Adding to that worry, critics noted that many patients who used Xenical lost modest amounts of weight -- typically 5 percent to 10 percent of their body weight -- and risked some messy side effects, including fecal incontinence, if they did not reduce their fat intake.
Xenical's case was further hurt by an immediate Internet market, similar to the universal cyberspace availability of Viagra and Propecia, Merck's hair loss pill. To overcome this shady beginning, Hoffmann-La Roche has not offered Xenical samples to doctors.
While some doctors remain critical of Xenical -- dismissing it because of the modest weight loss it produces -- others are becoming avid fans. Hoffmann-La Roche has 2,000 sales representatives peddling the drug, and their message is apparently taking hold in some hospitals.
"If you look at Xenical in treating obesity, it is important to note that it does something that other diet drugs don't do," said Dr. Louis Aronne, director of the Comprehensive Weight Control Program at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. "You can use it to treat obese people and not worry about it causing cardiovascular side effects. A lot of obese patients have cardiovascular risks."
To promote Xenical's benefits further, Hoffmann-La Roche expects to begin advertising it directly to consumers sometime in the third quarter of 1999. The ads are expected to loft sales of Xenical, which most analysts expect to hit $750 million to $1 billion at their peak.
"The sales will be erratic," said Neil Sweig, an analyst with Southeast Research Partners. "But that's the market. People who take this type of drug are never satisfied. They want the easy way out to lose weight. In this market, there is not any loyalty here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Slower Start"
Sales of Xenical, Hoffman La-Roche's new diet drug, have not kept pace in its first month with those of Viagra or Celebrex in their first months on the market. But analysts believe sales of Xenical will pick up, making it one of the industry's top sellers.
 
Number of prescriptions written for each drug in the first four weeks after each became available.
 
Viagra
Impotence
367,857
 
Celebrex
Arthritis
150,113
 
Xenical
Weight loss
96,485
 
(Source: IMS Health Incorporated)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%); MON (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: HOFFMANN-LA ROCHE INC PFIZER INC (90%); HOFFMANN-LA ROCHE INC (90%); ROCHE AUSTRIA GMBH (90%); IMS HEALTH INC (57%); MONSANTO CO (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOFFMANN-LA ROCHE INC FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (65%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: WEIGHT; XENICAL (DRUG); SALES; DIET AND NUTRITION; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (92%); DIETING (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); OBESITY (89%); NUTRITION (78%); OILS & FATS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (78%); BARIATRICS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); HOSPITALS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); SALES FORCE (69%); HAIR LOSS (69%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (68%); US FDA APPROVALS (57%); APPROVALS (57%); SALES PROJECTIONS (53%); INCONTINENCE (50%); 

PERSON: MORROW, DAVID J JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



30 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE PRIZE;
Issue of Who Controls Kosovo's Rich Mines

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
A number of unofficial partition plans have been drawn up for Kosovo, all raising the question of who would control an important northern mining region.
The bombing has made up-to-date production figures difficult to come by. Experts say the resources include large deposits of coal, along with some nickel, lead, zinc and other minerals. The industries are important contributors to Yugoslavia's $21 billion economy, and Belgrade would presumably be loathe to surrender them in any plan to divide the province. 
 One thought is that President Slobodan Milosevic could portray partition as a victory over NATO if Serbia retained control over important churches and historic monasteries in Kosovo, as well as the mines, which are around Mitrovica. But some experts said they believed that after months of bombing, economic issues were no longer paramount to Mr. Milosevic.
"In his own eyes, Mr. Milosevic sees himself as protector of Serbian nationhood," said Aurel Braun, a professor of international relations at the University of Toronto who has written two books on Eastern Europe. "He is a man who basically has ignored the economy, which was in a very bad condition before this conflict started. So this is hardly a leadership that will make any decision based on economic rationality."
Professor Braun said he believed that Mr. Milosevic could see retaining control of the region as a way to reward supporters after the conflict ends, reinforcing his grip on power. "He is corrupt and he does want his cronies to make money," the professor said. "But he is primarily a political animal, and his power derives from being a man who flies the Serbian flag. In this scheme of things, economic factors are pretty low down on the scale."
In 1995, the last year for which figures are generally available, all of Yugoslavia produced 41 million metric tons of coal, as well as significant quantities of pig iron, crude steel and copper. How much of that came from Kosovo, the poorest part of Serbia, is unknown. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (56%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (56%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (56%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MINES AND MINING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US BOMBINGS (90%); TRENDS (78%); COAL MINING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



31 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1811 words

HEADLINE: In Mexico, Children, and Promises, Unkept

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: AGUA PRIETA, Mexico, May 31

 BODY:
When Martina Toscano Quiroz gave three of her seven children up for adoption, her main goal, she said, was to give them a chance for a better life.
She is a single mother who earns less than $40 a week as a cleaning woman in this dusty town on the Arizona-Mexico border. Her home is a fly-infested shack with dirt floors and walls patched together from scraps of wood. 
 But, she acknowledged, her decisions were not entirely noble. The lawyer who took her children to live with middle-class families in New York made promises so enormous, she said, that it was as if he had offered her the stars.
"He told me he would build me two rooms with new tin for the roof and strong brick walls," she said. "And he told me he would build me a bathroom with a toilet and a faucet."
Ms. Toscano, 30, never got her new house. She said the lawyer, Mario Manuel Reyes Burgueno, took her daughters -- ages 8, 4 and 2 -- and then told her he could only give her a few hundred pesos for food.
Last week, Mr. Reyes and two women on Long Island were charged with running a cross-border baby-smuggling ring that sold Ms. Toscano's children and at least 14 others to couples in New York for as much as $22,000 each. The two women, Arlene Lieberman and Arlene Reingold, have declined to comment, while lawyers and friends of Mr. Reyes have suggested that he was trying to help poor women and their children.
In the wake of the arrests, some of the adoptive parents say they were the unwitting victims of a scheme that lured them into expensive and illegal agreements and that took advantage of their desperation to have children.
But in this isolated patch of the United States' border with Mexico, worlds away from the comfortable homes of Long Island, the view of these adoption agreements is even more complicated and tragic. Social workers here say they counsel dozens of mothers like Ms. Toscano, who are in such dire economic and social distress that they broker their children for money or shelter.
Several lawyers around the area, social workers said, have made offers to buy children from poor mothers. But, the social workers said, the lawyers usually renege on their part of the deals once the children have been delivered to families in the United States.
"I have had attorneys come here and offer me $100 for every child I give to them for adoptions," said Eunicia Soto, who runs an independent orphanage called Rancho Feliz at the eastern edge of Agua Prieta. "I tell them my children are not tomatoes for sale, and that I never want to see them on my property again."
But such defiance can only go so far, and Government officials say that there is so much smuggling of drugs and humans across this border -- a wide-open space divided, for the most part, by barbed-wire fencing -- that they cannot stop the trade. Smuggling has long been a pillar of the economy and culture of Agua Prieta, with a population of 130,000, and Douglas, its much-smaller sister city in Arizona. Ten years ago, border patrol agents discovered a high-tech tunnel, 30 feet beneath the desert floor, that had electric lighting, concrete reinforcement and hydraulic lifts and had been used to transport tons of cocaine into the United States.
And in recent years, as the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service has intensified its patrols in El Paso to the east and San Diego to the west, a stream of illegal immigrants from Mexico has been funneled through Douglas into the United States. Officials said that as many as 1,000 illegal immigrants are apprehended around Douglas each day, more than at any other I.N.S. station along the 1,900-mile border between the two countries.
"This is a real illegal universe," said Keoki Skinner, a former journalist who runs juice bars on both sides of the border. "There's so much illegal activity that goes on here that a lot of people seemed numb to it. But the idea that babies are part of the illegal traffic has really shocked a lot of people."
"It's like, things have gotten really bad if women are offering to sell their babies," he said.
For Martina Toscano, life was beyond bad. Short and pudgy and with a worn, tan face that makes her look much older than her age, Ms. Toscano said she moved to Agua Prieta 15 years ago from a small village some 100 miles away. There was no work in her village, she said, so she and her brother moved to the border to work in the factories known as maquiladoras, which are owned by companies in the United States. Within two months of moving here, she said, she was pregnant with her first child.
"I wanted a husband and a family," she said. "I met a man who offered to marry me and take care of me, so I gave myself to him."
But after the baby was born, the child's father abandoned Ms. Toscano, and her mother moved to town to help her take care of the child. But two years later, came another man with promises, and another baby was born. Then another man and another.
After her sixth child was born, Ms. Toscano said, she met a woman who offered to help place some of the children for adoption in the United States. Ms. Toscano said she refused. But on the next day, a tall, broad man knocked on her door.
It was the first time she had met Mario Reyes, she said. His words, she said, hit her like stones.
"He told me, 'Look at how you live,' " she recalled. "He told me that my children could have better lives in the United States. He promised that he would find them nice families who would love them and send them to school."
She said she yelled at Mr. Reyes, telling him that he had no right to judge the way she lived; that she did the best she could to provide for her children and that they were comfortable in their lopsided shack.
"Then he told me that if I gave him my children, he would help me to live better," she said. "He told me he would build me two rooms."
Mr. Reyes took two of Ms. Toscano's children: 8-year-old Flor Azucena and 4-year-old Zoitza. He promised that the two girls would be placed together in the same home, she said, and that their adoptive parents would send photographs and updates on how the girls were adjusting.
But the girls were separated almost immediately, she said. Flor Azucena went to the home of John and Rosalie Liberto in Miller Place, on Long Island. Zoitza's whereabouts remain unknown.
A year later, she said, Mr. Reyes sent Ms. Toscano's 2-year-old daughter, Gabriela, to live with the Libertos.
Mrs. Liberto said in an interview that she and her husband paid Mr. Reyes, Ms. Lieberman and Ms. Reingold more than $50,000, in what they thought were adoption fees, for Gabriela and Flor Azucena, whom they called Nicole.
"With that money I could have built a mansion and 10 bathrooms," Ms. Toscano scowled. "But I am still here, living in filth."
A year ago, Flor Azucena's American parents agreed to send her back to Agua Prieta because she missed her mother so badly.
Mrs. Liberto cried when she was asked why she agreed to let Flor Azucena go. The decision, she said, arose from memories of growing up poor and being sent every year to a summer camp in Pennsylvania. It was the most beautiful place she had ever seen, Mrs. Liberto said. But after a few days, she recalled, she was crying and pleading to go home. "A family bond is something you cannot break," she said.
"I knew I had to send her to her mother," she said of Flor Azucena. "After she left, you would have thought there was a death in the family. It was one of the only times I ever saw my husband cry."
Flor Azucena, sitting on the dank double bed she shares with two of her siblings in Agua Prieta, described her Long Island parents as kind and loving. But, she said, "I wanted to be with my mother."
Showing a visitor pictures, she recalled her time in the United States.
"That is my bedroom," she said, pointing to a photograph of her sitting on a bed with a fluffy, flowered comforter.
"That is me at my aunt's baby shower," she said, looking at a picture of herself wearing a silvery velvet dress, with a shiny headband in her hair.
"That's my best friend," she said, showing a photo of herself standing in a tight embrace with a freckle-faced red-headed girl.
"That's my mom and dad," she said, stopping the show for a moment to gaze at a picture of Mr. and Mrs. Liberto.
Soon to turn 11, Flor Azucena looks almost nothing like the soft, confident girl in the photos. Her complexion is uneven, her hair tangled and as she speaks, she stares down.
She does not go to school here, she says, because of fights she has had with other children. So while her mother is at work, she spends her days watching programs on an old television set and playing on the field of dust outside her house with her three siblings: 12-year-old Aurelia, who also does not go to school, 4-year-old Edgar and 1-year-old Ameirani. A 15-year-old brother lives with Ms. Toscano's mother elsewhere in the city.
The family's plight is not uncommon, said Ms. Soto, of Rancho Feliz. She organizes child-care workshops for single women in town who do not earn enough money to support their children. Some of the women, she said, turn to prostitution.
In the most desperate cases, she said, mothers give up their children for money or other things. One of her clients, she said, had given away her baby so that she could get electricity installed in her home.
"These kinds of things are not common, but they do happen," Ms. Soto said. "When I work with these mothers, my main message to them is that they do not have to give their children away in order to survive. They can make it, if they try. And I tell them that I will help them."
That message kept Guadalupe Serrano's family together. Ms. Serrano, 34, a mother of four, said she was a recovering drug addict who used to support her habit with prostitution. Two years ago, she said, she was approached by a lawyer who offered her $10,000 for her toddler. Ms. Serrano refused to name the lawyer, but she said it was not Mr. Reyes.
"He told me that she would have a good life and that people in the United States wanted children so much that they are willing to pay a lot of money," Ms. Serrano recalled.
Today, Ms. Serrano works at Rancho Feliz and raises her children in a cottage there. Speaking about her daughter, Olivia, who is now 4, she said, "I would have given her away." But Ms. Soto would not let her: "She made me feel ashamed for thinking about it," she said.
Ms. Toscano, however, has no regrets about sending her children to the United States and is happy that Gabriela is in a beautiful home where she is loved. Although she would like to know what happened to Zoitza, she regularly gets pictures from the Libertos of Gabriela.
"The life they have there is better than what they could have here," she said. Flor Azucena, staring at the ground, nodded in agreement.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Flor Azucena Enriquez with her adoptive mother on Long Island. Flor Azucena Enriquez spent two years in a Long Island family. Her adoptive parents sent her back to Mexico because she missed her mother so keenly. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. B4); Martina Toscano Quiroz, with two of her daughters, Flor Azucena, left, and Aurelia Enriquez, in their two-room shack in Mexico. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; AGUA PRIETA (MEXICO); NEW YORK STATE; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ADOPTIONS; SMUGGLING ADOPTION (90%); FAMILY (89%); ORPHANS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); SMUGGLING (76%); 

PERSON: THOMPSON, GINGER; TOSCANO QUIROZ, MARTINA; REYES BURGUENO, MARIO MANUEL; LIEBERMAN, ARLENE; REINGOLD, ARLENE MARTINA TOSCANO QUIROZ (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



32 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Merrill Lynch to Offer On-Line Stock Trading
Merrill Lynch plans to add a low-cost service for people who want to trade on the Internet. Instead of its average charge of $80 to $100 for a trade, the brokerage firm will let customers trade on line for $29.95, matching the fee charged by Charles Schwab & Company. But customers will not have access to research or guidance from a broker.
In addition, customers of Merrill Lynch can pay an annual fee of at least $1,500 for unlimited trading and advice, either on line or through a broker. Page A1. 

Liberty Media Buys Associated
Liberty Media Group, the television programming company controlled by John C. Malone, expanded into the wireless communications business by agreeing to acquire Associated Group of Pittsburgh in a complicated stock deal that involves AT&T. Associated is the largest investor in Teligent, which provides telephone and data communications services to companies using advanced wireless technology. C8.
 
F.T.C. Ends Cisco Investigation
The Federal Trade Commission said that it was ending its nine-month investigation into partnership discussions that Cisco Systems, the maker of data communications gear, held in recent years with two rivals. That means that Cisco will escape the sort of regulatory and legal pressure that the Government has brought to bear on Intel and Microsoft. C8.
 
Analysts Still Confident in Xenical
After a month on the market, the diet drug Xenical, made by Hoffmann-La Roche, will not go down as the most successful pharmaceutical introduction in history, but analysts are confident that it will be a best seller. C2.
 
Stocks Mostly Fall, but Dow Rallies
Stocks sold off early in the session on concerns that the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates later this month. The Dow Jones industrial average later recovered, closing up 36.52 points, to 10,596.26, but the Nasdaq composite index declined 58.49 points, or 2.37 percent, to 2,470.52. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 7.58 points, to 1,294.26. C12.
 
 
Bond prices slumped, pushing yields to their highest level in more than a year. The yield of the benchmark 30-year bond rose to 5.94 percent, from 5.82 percent on Friday. C12.
 
Manufacturing Rose in May
The rebound in United States manufacturing accelerated in May and more factories reported paying higher prices for materials, a National Association of Purchasing Management survey showed. Separately, the Conference Board reported that its index of leading economic indicators fell one-tenth of 1 percent in April, its first monthly decline in almost a year. And the Commerce Department said that the country's construction spending unexpectedly fell 2.4 percent in April, the first decline in six months. C8.
 
Microsoft Antitrust Trial Reopens
After a three-month recess and inconclusive efforts to settle the Microsoft antitrust case, the trial's rebuttal phase opened with a concerted attack on the previous testimony of Microsoft's chief economic witness. C2.
 
Dow Jones in Link With Germans
In the latest turn in a heated rivalry to dominate Europe's business press, Dow Jones & Company announced an alliance with the German newspaper Handelsblatt and agreed to exchange a stake in The Wall Street Journal Europe for a stake in Handelsblatt. C4.
 
America Online in Two Music Deals
America Online said that it would buy two Internet music companies, Spinner Networks and Nullsoft, for $400 million in stock. The acquisitions underscore the growing popularity of listening to music over the Internet. C9.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,596.26 up 36.52
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.94% up 0.12
The Dollar -- 120.56 yen down 0.87
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows percent change in new home sales, from Oct. 1998 through March 1999. April figures due today. Expected: -1.7%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LINTA (NASDAQ) (84%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (75%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (84%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (75%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (75%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); LIBERTY INTERACTIVE CORP (84%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (75%); CHARLES SCHWAB & CO INC (72%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); INTEL CORP (56%); HOFFMANN-LA ROCHE INC (54%); ROCHE AUSTRIA GMBH (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (51%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (54%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); DIETING (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



33 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 27; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
RECANATI, RAPHAEL

 BODY:
RECANATI-Raphael. We deeply mourn the passing of Raphael Recanati whose generosity, vision and support were felt by so many in Israel and the United States. We at The American Friends of The Hebrew University (AFHU) are indebted to him and the Recanati family for their role and support of the Jerusalem School of Business Administration sponsored by the Israel Discount Bank Foundation. He will be remembered for his influence on the economic development of Israel and its financial service industry. Many of our programs at AFHU benefited from his support including the Harvey Krueger Center for Finance, the Rothberg International School, and the Golda Meir Fellowship Funds. We extend our sympathies to his family. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President Alex Grass, Chairman of the Board of Governors American Friends of The Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs, President Fred S. Lafer, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
RECANATI-Raphael. The Board of Directors, officers and staff of Israel Discount Bank of New York mourn the untimely passing of our former Chairman, Raphael Recanati. His wisdom, foresight and generosity of spirit shaped our Bank in New York for many years, from its establishment as a Representative office, then to a Branch of our parent Israel Discount Bank Limited and finally to a New York State Chartered institution. His keen business acumen combined with his sense of social responsibility evidenced by his support of educational, medical and community organizations were an example and inspiration to all who knew him. We are fortunate to have benefitted from his guidance and to have been graced by his leadership and special presence. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Dina, his children, Michael and Oudi, and the remainder of his family. Arie Sheer, President and CEO Israel Discount Bank of New York
RECANATI-Raphael. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University mourns the passing of Raphael Recanati, an esteemed member of our Board of Directors, and Tel Aviv University's Board of Governors. His generous support and commitment to Tel Aviv University will be remembered by generations of Tel Aviv University's Faculty Members, Students, and Researchers. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dina, his children, and the entire family. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University Alan L. Aufzien, Chairman, Board of Directors Melvin S. Taub, Chairman Emeritus Robert J. Topchik, President Stephen Lecker, Exec. V.P.
RECANATI-Raphael. The faculty members of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai-NYU Health are deeply saddened by the passing of Raphael Recanati, a loyal and generous benefactor who had the vision and energy to create the Recanati/Miller Transplantation Institute at Mount Sinai. By integrating optimal medical and surgical therapies, this interdepartmental and interdisciplinary institute is committed to providing the most advanced care to patients. We are proud to participate in fulfilling Raphael Recanati's dream. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire Recanati family. Barry S. Coller, M.D., Chairman
RECANATI-Raphael. The Officers and Board of Directors of the American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, mourn the passing of our dear friend and former Board of Chancellor Member, Raphael Recanati, who generously supported many programs at BGU over the years. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Dina, and to his sons, Oudi and Michael. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jules I. Whitman, President Solomon and Edith Freedman Greater NY Regional Co-Chairs Bernard C. Moscovitz, Exec. V.P.
RECANATI-Raphael. It is with extreme sadness that the Physicians and Staff of The Department of Urology of Beth Israel Medical Center acknowledge the passing of our dear friend and benefactor, Mr. Raphael Recanati, Honorary Trustee of The Board of Trustees. His generosity supported the technological advancement of our department and furthered our ability to provide the highest quality patient care. To his wife and family and all his loved ones, our heartfelt condolences. Harris M. Nagler, M.D., Chairman
RECANATI-Raphael. I mourn with great sadness that Raphael Recanati is no longer with us. The many decades of affectionate friendship, and the grace with which he and Dina lived their lives and thoughtfully considered others, have been central to my life since 1960, and will remain so. To Dina, who cared so much, constantly and selflessly, and to his sons Oudi and Michael, and all the family, I express heartfelt sympathy and a shared sense of loss. Isaac Stern
RECANATI-Raphael. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem, mourn the death of Raphael Recanati, Founder and generous supporter for more than three decades. We will miss him deeply and send heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dina, and the entire family. Teddy Kollek, President, IM James S. Snyder, Anne & Jerome Fisher Dir. IM Judy Steinhardt, President, AFIM
RECANATI-Raphael. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Friends of Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, deeply mourn the passing of Raphael Recanati, beloved husband of our esteemed Board member and colleague, Dina Recanati. We extend our deepest condolences to Dina, her sons, and to the entire family. Romie Shapiro, Chairman of the Board Harry Bauer, President Eillene Leistner, Executive V.P.
RECANATI-Raphael. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Carnegie Hall express sadness at the loss of our friend Raphael Recanati. Without his generosity and great understanding of the desperate, immediate needs of the campaign to save Carnegie Hall, it might very well not have happened. We will never forget his warmth, and the support of the entire Recanati family. Isaac Stern, President Sanford I. Weill, Chairman
RECANATI-Raphael. We extend our sincerest condolences to Dina Recanati and sons, Oudi & Michael on the loss of their beloved husband and father, Raphael. A longtime supporter and Golden Founder, Raphael personified the values of tzedakah and chesed. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm. for Shaare Zedek Med. Ctr. in Jerusalem
RECANATI - Raphael. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum mourn the loss of Raphael Recanati, long-time and generous donor to The Museum. Our deepest sympathies are with his wife Dina, sons Oudi and Michael, as well as with the entire Recanti family. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director
RECANATI-Raphael. The AICF mourns the loss of Raphael Recanati, Chairman of the Board in the past, and supportive friend for many years. On behalf of the Board, we express our condolences to his wife Dina and the entire Recanati family. Vera Stern, President America-Israel Cultural Foundation 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: DSCT (TASE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (94%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

COMPANY: ISRAEL DISCOUNT BANK LTD (83%); ISRAEL DISCOUNT BANK OF NEW YORK (70%); TEL AVIV UNIVERSITY (64%); HEBREW UNIVERSITY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEL AVIV UNIVERSITY (64%); HEBREW UNIVERSITY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (94%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); 

PERSON: RECANATI, RAPHAEL GOLDA MEIR (57%); ALEX GRASS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



34 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Trade Status With China: Risky Vote Tomorrow

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 1

 BODY:
For the seventh time since he took office, President Clinton will ask Congress, on Thursday, to renew China's trading privileges with the United States. That has always been a dicey proposition, though one that Mr. Clinton -- with aggressive lobbying help from companies with interests in China -- has always won.
But this year the battle over what are now called "normal trade relations" promises to be more confused, more emotional and far trickier than any time since the military crackdown in Tiananmen Square, 10 years ago. Just a few months ago, Mr. Clinton and the Chinese had hoped to be asking Congress for far more, for permanent trade privileges, as part of a deal that would usher China into the World Trade Organization. 
 Mr. Clinton's aides say that on Thursday the President will hold open the possibility that the bigger and more permanent deal will soon be struck, presumably after the furor dies down here over accusations of Chinese spying and in Beijing over bombing the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade. But some of Mr. Clinton's advisers said privately they feared that the chances of having a trade deal signed with the Chinese and through an angry Congress were increasingly remote.
"What we are watching," an adviser said last week, "is a seven-year initiative with China crumble in our hands."
Once the White House called that initiative the development of a "strategic partnership" with China, a phrase stricken from all official references to that country. So has the term "commercial diplomacy," once used to describe how increased economic engagement with China would strengthen ties in other arenas.
Now the White House, and business leaders, are arguing the opposite, why national security issues should be divorced from trade.
The White House's seeming ambivalence about how to tackle the vote, which usually becomes a Congressional referendum on the state of Chinese-American relations, is mirrored by the Republicans' ambivalence. Roughly half the Republican Presidential hopefuls, including Gary Bauer, Patrick Buchanan and Steve Forbes, argue that the spy case underscores why the United States should suspend negotiations with China over entering the W.T.O.
The other half, including George W. Bush and John McCain, have carefully separated the issues, with Mr. McCain, chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, arguing: "We should make judgments on the basis of our trade interests. The scandal is not that they spied on us, but that we let them."
For many executives the debate on responding to the spying accusations echoes the debate that played out in the first two years of the Administration, over tying China's human rights record to its trade privileges. Mr. Clinton himself started out that way and reversed course, separating human rights issues from arguments over the annual renewal.
The chairman of Intel Corporation, Andrew Grove, said he saw the relationship in terms of parallel universes. "There is the political and geopolitical universe, where nations have problems and collaborations," Mr. Grove said. "There is the trade universe, and then there is a universe of technology issues. And what we have to deal with -- whether we want to tie those three together, so that if hits a brick wall they all stop making progress."
Mr. Grove's concern, one that he and other technology executives plan to voice here next week, is that Congress will link the trade vote to new restrictions on technology transfers.
"It's entirely possible that higher-end Pentium III's will not be salable in China," Mr. Grove said, referring to top-of-the-line Intel microprocessors. "Imagine that, a personal computer you will be able to buy for $1,200 at CompUSA by the end of the year could not be shipped to China."
Mr. Grove and other technology executives argue that such restrictions would not deny technology to China, but that they would rather force China to develop its own processes. "And then you have to ask are we better off in any of those universes -- the political one or the trade one or the technological one -- if we force them to build up their technological base on their own?"
In Congress, though, such subtleties have not been debated. After Tiananmen, Congress imposed trade and technology restrictions, many of which have since been lifted. There may be the same reaction this time.
But some experts on Capitol Hill say they believe that when passions cool, there will once again be momentum for a trade deal that opens China's markets.
"In the end," said Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who is pushing for permanent trade privileges, "people will come to realize that all the concessions in this trade agreement are on China's side."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 3, 1999, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A headline yesterday about China's trade status with the United States referred incorrectly to the action expected today regarding renewal of that country's trading privileges. What is expected is Mr. Clinton's renewal request, not a vote by the Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: ;NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION INTEL CORP (60%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; SERBIA; BELGRADE (SERBIA); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ESPIONAGE; FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); BOMBINGS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); TRENDS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



35 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 2, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
Reshaping Retail Space And Making It Pay Off

BYLINE: By MERVYN ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
In late 1995, the owners of Paramount Plaza, a 2.4-million-square-foot office building at 1633 Broadway, were looking for ways to reinvent about 100,000 square feet of multilevel retail space. Now, more than three years later, the renovated space between 50th and 51st Streets has three new tenants -- the Mars 2112 restaurant, Cosi Sandwiches and the Equinox Fitness Club -- in 65,000 square feet.
The way in which the deals were made, and the time it took to make them, illustrate how real estate transactions can often turn on obvious issues, like money, and on less apparent ones, like a landlord's taste -- in tenants, and in bread. 
 "I had been making proposals to the building for a small former bank space on the corner, and the landlord wasn't responding," said Faith Hope Consolo, a broker with the Garrick-Aug Worldwide retail brokerage company who was hired by the owners as a consultant. "Then suddenly, they called me and said they wanted to come visit. I thought they wanted to make a deal."
The "they," the owner of the building, is the Paramount Group, the investment arm of the Otto family of Germany, who own Spiegel, the mail-order company. The building, put up in 1971, has tenants like the Gershwin and Circle in the Square theaters, the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization and the Showtime cable network.
A small retail deal was not what Paramount had in mind. Ms. Consolo had been a consultant to the State Economic Development Corporation in devising its retail plans for Times Square, and Paramount wanted her to do the same for 1633 Broadway.
"They said they wanted to redevelop the space, and possibly re-lease about 65,000 to 100,000 square feet of it," Ms. Consolo said. "At the time, 35,000 square feet was vacant and there was the possibility of more vacancies. Times Square was starting to come together, with Disney and the New Amsterdam Theater, and they wanted to take advantage of the changes."
She and a Garrick-Aug colleague, Joseph A. Aquino, spent six months studying street traffic, the kinds of stores that the neighborhood could use and the kinds of stores that the building's tenants wanted.
"There was an incredible amount of traffic," Ms. Consolo said. "The 8,000 people who worked in the building. Others who worked in the neighborhood. Tourists from all the hotels nearby. There's a subway stop in the building -- the 50th Street stop on the No. 1 and 9 lines. We found that the 50th and Broadway corner had 80 percent of the traffic counts at 57th and Seventh and 42d and Seventh."
The 1996 study, Mr. Aquino said, found that an average of 24,000 pedestrians passed the northwest corner of 50th and Broadway on a weekday between 7 A.M. and 5 P.M.
The building's tenants and neighborhood visitors from the three-state area "all said they wanted affordable food," Ms. Consolo said. "Everybody in the building wanted a good gym. There was already a gym called Living Well Lady there, but the tenants said they wanted a real fitness center."
The study found that redoing the space, which is on several levels, would be of prime importance. "A lot of the space, on the building's concourse and subconcourse, was hidden," Ms. Consolo said. "There was no visibility from the street." So, she said, "several million dollars" were spent on new signs and awnings, new storefronts and a new lighting plan.
"The building looks dramatically different," she said. "We opened up the visibility into the lower level, reworked the staircase to make for easier access and egress and made everything user-friendly from the street."
Ms. Consolo, who after completing the study was named exclusive leasing agent for the space, said that there was a lot of interest but that some of it was unwanted.
"We had interest from Filene's Basement, Loehmann's, T. J. Maxx," she said. "A lot of discounters wanted the space, but the owners didn't want apparel. We had offers from Staples and Office Depot, but the landlord didn't want them, didn't like their signage. Paramount felt that a tenant like that would be too dominant a presence for an office building. Everything took a long time because each offer had to go back to Germany for consideration. And Paramount is very cautious."
Duane Reade, which has had a store in the building for years, remained. The first new deal was made in April 1998, for a theme restaurant, Mars 2112, which opened last fall.
"Before Mars 2112 we had a lot of interest from the Rainforest Cafe, and Paramount liked them," Ms. Consolo said. "But Rainforest Cafe decided it would be too expensive to build the space. The Mars 2112 offer came right after that."
Mars 2112 cost $15 million to build, occupies 35,000 square feet on the building's main concourse and tries to create the experience of dining on Mars in the year 2112. It was built by Paschal M. Phelan, a European businessman, and is reached by way of the building's sunken plaza. A flying saucer 22 feet in diameter sits outside the 400-seat restaurant's glass front doors. Inside, customers take a bumpy five-minute "shuttle" to Mars -- and then traverse walkways suspended over simulated pools of bubbling lava.
Next came Cosi Sandwiches, which signed a lease last fall for 5,000 square feet on the ground level and opened over the winter. "We had Au Bon Pain and everybody in the food business looking at the space, but Paramount decided it didn't want a very large chain," Ms. Consolo said. "In the end, Paramount chose Cosi because they liked their bread."
The final deal, for 25,000 square feet, was signed last month. The fitness club leased 26,000 square feet on the concourse and subconcourse levels and is to open in February.
Average annual retail rents in the neighborhood are about $100 a square foot for ground space and $40 to $50 a square foot for concourse and lower levels.
"In the end, the tenants got what they said they wanted," Ms. Consolo said. "And so did the landlord." Including the bread.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 7, 1999, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about retail leasing at Paramount Plaza, at 1633 Broadway between 50th and 51st Streets, included an outdated reference to an office tenant, the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization. It is now at 1065 Avenue of the Americas, at 40th Street.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cosi Sandwiches and the Mars 2112 restaurant, with a flying saucer outside, are among the new tenants that Paramount Plaza has attracted. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW AMSTERDAM BOOKS (52%); PARAMOUNT GROUP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARAMOUNT GROUP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (55%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1999



36 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 3; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: CURRENTS: LIGHTING;
Clipping Together A Zeppelin

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON 

 BODY:
There's a persistent mystery to the way flat patterns fold up into full ones. That, along with economy of design, lends fascination to a new family of hanging lamps from Artecnica, designers and manufacturers in Culver City, Calif. These spherical and zeppelin lamps, which sell for $30 to $45, take shape from polycarbonate panels that assemble quickly with clips. Like certain high-tech buildings, they make a fetish of the cleverness with which their parts join. The result has the quality of a puzzle. Information: (310) 559-3555.
 PHIL PATTON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ARTECNICA

ORGANIZATION: ARTECNICA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LAMPS AND LAMPSHADES FAMILY (88%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (83%); 

PERSON: PATTON, PHIL PHIL PATTON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



37 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 2; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1975 words

HEADLINE: In Spanish and Portuguese, Web Growth Spurt

BYLINE: By JAMES RYAN 

 BODY:
IN January, Anna Spinello, a clothing designer in Buenos Aires, set up a Web site to help boost sales of her spring line. By clicking on a little flag, a viewer can see the site in English, Spanish or Portuguese.
"Considering we haven't publicized it, we've had an amazing response," said her son Francesco Spinello, 42, who manages the small, family-run business (www.annaspinello.com) that sells to boutiques in Argentina, Chile, Uruguay and Brazil. "We've made a lot of contacts that should pay off with the next collection." 
 The Spinellos are part of a wave of Latin Americans who have recently discovered the Web. Lagging perhaps two years behind the United States, Japan and Western Europe in its development, the Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking Internet market is one of the fastest-growing in the world and has emerged as the latest battleground for viewers among such Internet titans as America Online and Yahoo.
"This is the year the scales are tipping," said Heather Killen, the vice president of Yahoo International, who oversaw the start-up of a Spanish version of the Yahoo portal (espanol.yahoo.com) in June 1998. "The shape of the Internet is no longer a comet with the U.S. as the head and this thin trail behind."
Latin American governments, aware of the need to promote local Internet access and business so that more precious dollars do not flow overseas, are also beginning to look at ways to encourage more people to get on line.
The governments of Argentina and Chile, for example, have mandated that privately held phone companies charge half price for local Internet access phone calls. Recent privatization of the state-run phone company in Brazil, which is the only Portuguese-speaking country in Latin America, is expected to lead to reduced phone charges and better infrastructure and service in that country, the most populous in the region, accounting for roughly half the Internet users.
"If they don't allow citizens on line, they realize their country is going to be at a significant disadvantage in the future," said Annika Alford, chief Latin American Internet analyst for IDC, a market research company in Framingham, Mass.
Among the Internet's contributions to Latin America will be allowing the Spinellos and other merchants to expand their reach across borders.
"The Internet is an extraordinary medium to improve communication and exchange among different cultures and languages," Mr. Spinello said. "In Brazil, for example, we have few clients now but there is great potential for growth."
Internet companies in the United States, faced with slowing growth at home, are looking for expansion through service in languages other than English. This year, for the first time, there will be more people gaining access to the Web from outside the United States than from within, many of them preferring to do so in their native tongue.
The Spanish-speaking population in the United States also holds growth potential for Internet companies. Luis Hernandez, an 18-year-old bilingual senior at Hollywood High School in Los Angeles, uses the Internet to search for information about his favorite Latin bands and to chat with childhood friends living in Mexico as well as other Spanish speakers using one of America Online's Hispanic chat rooms. The Spanish language "is easier for me to write in -- I'm faster," he said, adding: "It's our culture. We understand ourselves."
As they rush to sign up Spanish-language consumers, Internet giants in this country face stiff competition from both Latin American media companies and existing Spanish-language portals -- the industry term for a site that is both a primary destination and a gateway to the Internet at large -- based in the United States. Of these portals, Starmedia Network (starmedia .com), which saw its stock nearly double on the first day of trading in its initial public offering last week, has grabbed much of the attention for its Spanish-Portuguese site.
But other ventures are vying for the same users, and the last few weeks have seen a flurry of announcements of new sites in the Spanish-language Internet sector. Among the competitors are Que Pasa (quepasa .com), a Spanish-English site, and Yupi (yupi.com), which recently acquired Ciudad Futura, a Spanish-language on-line entertainment site (www.ciudadfutura.com), and says it is the front-runner with more than 5.7 million users and 80 million page views per month from both the Yupi and Ciudad Futura sites. Starmedia lays claim to 60 million page views per month and 2.4 million users.
Bloomberg recently announced that it would soon open a bilingual personal finance site for Hispanics in the United States (www.negociosbloomberg.com).
Just how many Hispanic Internet users there are is the subject of some debate. The number of users of the Internet at large -- or of a specific site -- is hard to measure, in part because of differences in the methods of measurement in the fast-changing world of electronic media. While operators of Web sites typically keep detailed logs of user traffic, there is no generally accepted industry auditing process for those data. And outside companies that try to compile Web usage data, a la television's Nielsen ratings, must extrapolate from audience samples that are widely thought to undercount Internet use from work and ignore or undercount Internet use from overseas.
Companies like Starmedia, lumping together Hispanics in this country, Portuguese-speaking Brazil, the countries of Spanish-speaking Latin America, Spain and Portugal, come up with a figure of about 20 million users worldwide, two-thirds of them in Latin America. IDC, which takes a slightly more conservative approach, based on its figures showing that there is an installed PC base in Latin America of nearly 16 million computers and an Internet penetration rate of 20 percent, estimates that by the end of 1999 there will be 7 million Latin Americans on line. At an annual growth rate of 32 percent over the next five years, IDC predicts that number will grow to 19 million on line by the year 2003.
Hispanics in the United States are another large and growing market for Spanish-language sites. Data from Nielsen Net Ratings, which monitors Web traffic, indicate that about 5 million of the 30 million Hispanics in the United States are on line. A study by Forrester Research, however, put the figure closer to 10 million.
A focus group study by Yahoo indicated that 70 percent of American Hispanics preferred to get at least some of their content in Spanish. That would suggest that there might be as many as seven million Hispanics in this country surfing Spanish-language sites. Yupi, with headquarters in Miami Beach and offices in seven Latin American countries, estimates that 20 percent of its traffic comes from American users.
While Hispanics in this country may be an important sector of the Spanish-language audience, the big growth in the user base is expected to come from Latin America, particularly Brazil, with a population of 160 million.
Pedro Rosa, 33, a writer and translator in Rio de Janeiro, said he downloaded software and regularly communicated via E-mail with other writers in the United States and elsewhere. He also conducts much of his research on line, sometimes using the Brazilian search engine Cade (cade.com.br), sometimes an English or French one.
"It gives me access to a lot of dictionaries and translating tools," said Mr. Rosa, who has also taken screen-writing courses over the Web through a company called Online Learning, based in Los Angeles.
Already the Web is breaking down national barriers. On Starmedia's bulletin boards and classified pages, for example, people from many Latin American countries post notices side by side or banter in chat rooms. Some speak of the Internet as having achieved a "virtual regionalization."
Winning over locals like Mr. Rosa may prove a challenge for United States companies moving into an increasingly crowded market. Already there are in the neighborhood of 450 Internet service providers in Brazil, 240 in Mexico and 170 in Argentina, according to numbers from America Online's Latin American unit, as well as long-established major destinations, many of them sponsored by Latin American media giants like TV Globo (globo.com.br) and Grupo Folha (uol.com.br) in Brazil and Grupo Clarin (clarin.com.ar) in Argentina.
A common strategy is to find local partners who can help pave the way in a market where personal relationships are key to business success.
"You can't sit in a city on another continent and say, 'Right, I'm going to launch something in Chile,' " said Phil Ingram, marketing manager of Orientation.com, which is based in New York and is creating a network of country portals. "You have to have local contacts who can build bridges."
Orientation.com plans to carve a niche for itself by focusing on some of the smaller, overlooked countries -- Colombia, Costa Rica, Chile -- with a network appealing to business travelers, offering a currency converter, weather forecasts and trade show information in English and Spanish.
America Online has formed a 50-50 partnership with the Cisneros Group, a major entertainment and telecommunications force in Latin America that is based in Venezuela. And last month, the two partners hired Charles Herington as president and chief executive of AOL Latin America, which will first tackle the Brazilian market and later Argentina. Mr. Herington previously helped Taco Bell and Pizza Hut spread their franchises in South America.
Marketing Internet services, however, will prove more complicated than selling fast food. Sites must be locally tailored. Jack Davies, president of AOL International, promised that Brazilians will not find themselves force-fed a service planned for North Americans, but will instead find a product reconceived for their needs.
"It's going to be very bright, very alive, very colorful, more so than corresponding AOL.com's because of the festive nature of Brazil," Mr. Davies said.
Though features like chat, E-mail and up-to-the-second news have proved enormously popular in Latin America, as they have elsewhere in the world, electronic commerce, including sales of books, CD's, computer equipment and clothing, may catch on more slowly because of cultural and logistical differences. Brazil, for example, does not have the United States' extensive tradition in mail-order catalog buying on which to build an electronic commerce market.
"We Brazilians like to see the thing, touch it, like to be sure we're going to have something," said Mr. Rosa, who once ordered books from Amazon.com but had to wait seven weeks for them to arrive and vows never to buy on line again.
Further slowing the expansion of the Internet user base in Latin America has been the regional economic crisis. The number of Internet users in the region more than doubled from 1997 to 1998; the 1999 growth appears to be only half as fast, IDC said.
Mr. Herington at AOL, among others, said that the Internet itself might provide the solution by improving communication and distribution channels.
Adding to the obstacles for Latin American Web surfers are underdeveloped telephone systems, the relatively high cost of Internet access and the fact that many phone companies in Latin America charge by the minute for local calls. Mr. Rosa, who estimates he spends an average of 60 hours a month on line, pays the equivalent of $20 a month to his Internet service provider for unlimited access, but local toll charges add another $40 to his monthly phone bill.
"How many people can afford this?" Mr. Rosa said of his fellow Brazilians. "Most people don't have enough money to afford a computer. The base isn't going to expand unless we do all sorts of socioeconomic development."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Internet market of Spanish and Portuguese speakers is one of the fastest-growing in the world. Luis Hernandez of Los Angeles uses the Internet to chat with friends living in Mexico. (Chris Pizzello for The New York Times)(pg. G8); NEW TO THE WEB -- Anna Spinello, a clothing designer in Buenos Aires, and her son Francesco recently put their family-run business on line. (Horacio Paone for The New York Times)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); AOL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); PORTUGAL (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); BRAZIL (93%); CHILE (92%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); URUGUAY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA ONLINE; YAHOO INC YAHOO! INC (95%); AOL INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE; YAHOO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); PORTUGAL (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); BRAZIL (93%); CHILE (92%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); URUGUAY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; SPANISH LANGUAGE INTERNET & WWW (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); TELEPHONE RATES (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (60%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (60%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (56%); 

PERSON: RYAN, JAMES JAMES T RYAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



38 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1780 words

HEADLINE: Spotlight On an Outpost Of Black Talent;
A New Jersey Theater Steps Onto the Big Stage

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
For Ricardo Khan, the road to a Tony Award began with a matinee performance of "Hello, Dolly!" in 1967. Mr. Khan, then a gawky 16-year-old theater buff, still remembers the awe he felt as the curtain went up in the St. James Theater to reveal Cab Calloway and Pearl Bailey in roles that had been radically recast by the producer, David Merrick.
"I wasn't inspired because it was on Broadway," Mr. Khan said, "but because it was an all-black cast. It was a cast," he said with a pause, "that looked like me." 
 A decade later, using a $225,000 Federal jobs grant, Mr. Khan established the Crossroads Theater Company in New Brunswick, N.J., and began making theater by, for and about black Americans. It is a mission that, Mr. Khan admits, has had its share of financial pitfalls and has had him spending more than a few afternoons sweeping floors, tiling bathrooms and "wondering why I got into this."
But any doubts were swept away this past season.
On April 26, the company celebrated its Broadway debut when "It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues," a joint production with two other nonprofit theaters, was picked up by a consortium of commercial producers and reopened at the Vivian Beaumont Theater at Lincoln Center.
A week later Crossroads learned that it had won one of theater's highest honors: the Tony for outstanding regional theater. On top of that, "It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues" received four Tony nominations, including one for best musical.
The Crossroads story is one of individual and institutional persistence. Inspired by the black theater scene of the 1960's, the company survived cutbacks in Federal financing by forging relationships with New Jersey businesses and New Brunswick officials who used the arts as a cornerstone for urban renewal. Still, its success has been bittersweet: the theater's growth and prominence on a national stage coincides with a period of crisis for many other black theaters, a point brought home during the highly publicized debate in 1997 between the playwright August Wilson and the artistic director Robert Brustein on issues of race and cultural power.
The success of Crossroads does not mean that black theater is in the full bloom of health, though there are promising signs. Crossroads is the first company devoted to works by black Americans to win the Tony for regional theater since the award's creation in 1976. And it is one of only two black theater companies that belong to the League of Resident Theaters, an association of 70 leading nonprofit theaters; the Freedom Theater in Philadelphia, joined the league this year.
Nationwide, there are about 50 full-time black theater companies, said Woodie King Jr., who founded the New York-based New Federal Theater, one of the country's oldest black troupes. He said that major black companies include the New Federal, the Freedom Theater, the National Black Theater in Harlem, the St. Louis Black Repertory, the ETA Creative Arts Foundation in Chicago, Jomandi in Atlanta, the Ensemble Theater Company in Houston, and the Penumbra Theater in Minneapolis. But as Mr. King points out, today's ranks bear little resemblance to those that emerged in the wake of the civil rights movement.
"In the late 1960's," he said, "there were 45 black theaters in New York alone."
That was the vibrant scene Mr. Khan leaped into when he founded Crossroads. "The Negro Ensemble Company was strong, the New Federal was strong, the National Black Theater was strong," Mr. Khan said. "These were role models."
 
Legal Aspirations, Theatrical Passions
The son of a Trinidadian doctor and an American nurse, Mr. Khan attended Rutgers University in New Brunswick, studying law but falling in love with theater. After graduating, Mr. Khan and Lee Richardson, a classmate, set up a 60-seat theater in an abandoned warehouse on an access road at the city's edge.
They used seed money from an unlikely source, the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act, a Federal jobs program. Not that there wasn't ample labor involved. At first, Mr. Khan acted, directed and cleaned the floors, a regimen that finally dulled his passion for being onstage.
"I decided the acting could be done a lot better by someone not thinking about whether the bathroom was leaking or why there weren't people in the seats," he said.
Instead Mr. Khan became an astute player as a director and producer, raising money and connecting with local government leaders, talents that served his company well when Federal funds dried up in the 1980's. Mr. Richardson left the company in 1987.
While many black theaters, including the acclaimed Negro Ensemble, failed or lost steam, Crossroads grew into an institution with a budget of more than $3 million. It has reduced its debt to $600,000 from $1.7 million in 1995.
The company resides in a handsome 320-seat theater in the heart of New Brunswick built in 1991 for $4 million by a partnership of local government and private benefactors. About 65 percent of the company's audience is African-American, Mr. Khan said, a substantial increase since the theater's early days. The artistic roster is also integrated; for example, works by the playwrights Romulus Linney, who is white, and Migdalia Cruz, who is Puerto Rican, were presented in the theater's new play series in March.
Volunteers prepare food and greet audience members nightly. Kente cloth and African artifacts decorate the walls and music fills the lobby. High-profile fans include Bill Cosby and Gen. Colin L. Powell.
"Being outside a major media center has been to their benefit because they haven't had to fight for attention," Mr. King said. "And being in a city where Johnson & Johnson is based doesn't hurt either."
Crossroads gets support from Johnson & Johnson and other pharmaceutical companies in New Jersey. The Schering-Plough Corporation in Madison, sponsored the theater's annual new play festival this year. Other major corporate supporters include the AT&T Foundation and Absolut Vodka.
Since the mid-1980's, the theater has grown artistically, too, attracting young talents like George C. Wolfe, who developed "The Colored Museum" at Crossroads in 1986. Three years later, Mr. Wolfe returned to work on "Spunk."
"I'm sure I required a lot as an artist," Mr. Wolfe said, "and they provided it."
Productions in recent years have included new plays by Mr. Wilson ("Jitney") and Ruby Dee ("The Disappearance").
The company's breakthrough production came in 1989, when it presented the world premiere of "Sheila's Day," performed by a collaboration of South African and American actresses. The play, about the parallel journeys of a black South African woman and a black woman in the American South, traveled to Washington, the Brooklyn Academy of Music and South Africa.
"Sheila's Day" piqued the interest of many theater professionals, said Chris Jones, chairman of the regional theater committee for the Tony Awards. "That's when people began noticing and talking about Crossroads," he said.
His committee was also impressed by the company's "specificity of mission," he said, as well as its programs, like internships that enroll students from traditionally black colleges.
While the overt political meaning of "Sheila's Day" earned the theater some acclaim, it was nothing compared with the publicity generated by a fervent debate over its general role in black theater.
It began in 1996 during a national theater conference in Princeton, N.J., where Mr. Wilson pointed out in a keynote address that Crossroads was then the only black theater company in the League of Resident Theaters. This, Mr. Wilson said, reflected a lack of support for professional African-American theaters, and he argued that what African-American artists needed most was not roles in plays produced by predominantly white theater companies, but theater companies and stages of their own.
"The things Wilson said are things people wanted to say for so long," Mr. Khan said. "And people roared with enthusiasm because he said it. They might not agree with all of it, but at least he said it."
But some believed that Mr. Wilson's message smacked of separatism. The most prominent critic was Mr. Brustein of the American Repertory Theater in Boston. The debate culminated in a sold-out discussion between the men at Town Hall in Manhattan, an event that many felt clarified little.
Looking back, Mr. Khan is typically sanguine: "It was wild, it was glorious. But it's not like we'd been thrust into the middle of something. We were already in it. It's just someone pointed a light on it."
 
A Welcoming Stage For Black Talent
For black theater artists, Crossroads' status as a national player was established long before the Brustein-Wilson debate.
Ron Taylor, the creator of "It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues," said that without Crossroads, the show could have easily died two years ago. After three years of sporadic touring of high schools, small town auditoriums and regional theaters, "Blues" had lost its main financial backer, the Denver Theater Center.
"I got on the telephone and started calling," Mr. Taylor said. One of the people he called was Mr. Khan, whom he had never met, but knew by reputation.
"Rick said, 'I love this show,' " Mr. Taylor recalled, adding that Mr. Khan hadn't actually seen it yet. "He said, 'If you can get it to the East Coast, I think we can get it to New York.' "
Working with the artistic directors of the Alabama Shakespeare Festival and the San Diego Repertory Company, Mr. Khan helped arrange a tour, with a three-week run at the New Victory Theater in Manhattan in March. The New Victory sold out.
One important factor leading to the Broadway run was Mr. Khan's long friendship with Eric Krebs, a commercial producer who lives near Crossroads and has been a longtime supporter. Mr. Krebs assembled a group of other investors to move the show from the New Victory to the Beaumont, where sales have been promising.
Still, Mr. Khan said he had no intention or time to rest on his laurels. He has a three-year plan to eliminate the theater's debt, a mission he hopes the regional theater Tony will help. Mr. Khan would also like to build an endowment for the theater.
Artistically, too, Crossroads is looking to expand. Nurturing new theater about African-American life continues to be the goal; what that means, however, is changing.
"Our existence is not defined anymore by what it is to be black in America, but to be black in the world," Mr. Khan said. "You spend a lot of time on black and white and it starts to restrict you. Black people are redefining who we are. Theater can do that too."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gretha Boston and Ron Taylor in Crossroads Theater's "It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues." (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Ricardo Kahn founded Crossroads in New Brunswick, N.J., as a showcase for black theater. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. E1); Inspiration: Cab Calloway and Pearl Bailey in "Hello, Dolly!" in 1969. (Friedman-Abeles, 1969)(pg. E3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: IT AIN'T NOTHIN' BUT THE BLUES (REVUE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CROSSROADS THEATER COMPANY CROSSROADS THEATER CO (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CROSSROADS THEATER COMPANY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; BLACKS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); WRITERS (63%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE; KHAN, RICARDO PEARL MAE BAILEY (58%); DAVID MERRICK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



39 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Unexpectedly Rose in April

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2

 BODY:
Sales of new homes unexpectedly rose in April to the second-highest level ever, driving prices to a record high and giving Federal Reserve policy makers another reason to consider raising interest rates, Government figures showed today.
Sales surged 9.2 percent in April, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 978,000 units, the Commerce Department reported. That topped analysts' forecasts for a 1.5 percent decline and came after an eight-tenths of a percent decrease in March. 
 Rising mortgage rates contributed to the April increase, builders and economists said.
Average rates for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages rose to 7.23 percent last week, up from about 6.8 percent at the start of the year and a three-decade low of 6.49 percent last October.
The median price of new homes rose 3 percent in April, to a record $159,500 from $154,800 in March, Commerce Department figures showed. That is 7.8 percent higher than a year earlier.
Rising prices do not necessarily mean buyers are being priced out of the market. With a 7.23 percent mortgage on a $159,500 home, a buyer would pay $1,086 a month in principal and interest costs, compared with a $1,007 payment at 6.49 percent.
The rise in home sales "will be one more piece of the puzzle that says to the Fed it's appropriate" to raise interest rates, said Diane Swonk, deputy chief economist at the Bank One Corporation in Chicago. "The strong home sales keep generating additional spending, and this just puts that much more in the pipeline."
Just last week, Mr. Greenspan indicated policy makers were watching the housing boom's effect on the rest of the economy. "The home sales market is a critical factor of what's going on in retail sales," he said in a speech to the National Retail Federation.
April's sales level was second only to November's record pace of 958,000 homes. So far this year, home sales have averaged an annual rate of 921,000. If sustained, that would exceed last year's record 886,000 homes sold.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "New Home Sales" tracks private homes sold during month, seasonally adjusted annual rate, from November 1997 through April 1999. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (66%); JPM (LSE) (66%); 8634 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); RETAIL SALES (79%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); RETAILERS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



40 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Shares Slip but Rebound; Nasdaq Up, Other Gauges Flat

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stocks slumped in early trading yesterday but rebounded somewhat after bargain hunters stepped in to scoop up shares of Internet and other high-technology issues. By the close, the Nasdaq composite index had reversed course and posted a solid gain, but the other main gauges were flat.
Once again, concern about higher interest rates dominated trading, analysts said. A report showing that sales of new homes surged unexpectedly in April was the latest in a series of reports suggesting that the economy continues to grow at an unsustainably fast pace and that the Fed will most likely raise rates. 
 "Interest rate fears are the big problem," said Kenneth Ducey, director of trading at BT Brokerage, a unit of Bankers Trust. "People are very nervous" that the Fed or the fixed-income market may tighten credit. A key report on the nation's employment situation is set to be released tomorrow.
However, Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, said nothing bearing on rates in a lunchtime appearance in Boston, and the markets seemed to take that as a cue to rally.
One exception was brokerage stocks, which continued to reel from Merrill Lynch's announcement of a new on-line trading service. Merrill finished down 4 9/16, to 70 11/16, after two analysts cut earnings estimates for next year. Nasdaq, which is dominated by computer and other high-technology issues, finished with a gain of 20.38 points, or eight-tenths of a percent, to 2,432.41. At its low, just after noon, the loss was more than 47 points.
The Dow Jones industrial average, meanwhile, ended 18.37 points lower, or two-tenths of a percent, to 10,577.89, after being down nearly 132 points before the comeback. Eighteen of its 30 components lost ground while 12, mostly cyclical issues, rose.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.55 point, to 1,294.81, but advancing stocks barely surpassed declining ones, 243 to 241, with 16 unchanged.
Despite the recent wide swings, the Chicago Board Options Exchange's volatility index has been remarkably subdued, according to Lawrence D. Cavanagh, an options strategist at Value Line. With a decline of 1.69 points yesterday, the index stands at 26.23, far below this year's high approaching 35 in mid-January. "Option premiums have not jumped the way they usually do" when the investment tide turns, Mr. Cavanagh said. "A lot of people are not terribly worried."
Stocks fell in six of the preceding eight sessions, pulling the Dow 4.6 percent below its record 11,107.19 on May 13.
"What the market continues to do is unwind the real economic fear of last year, which motivated investors to own the safest vehicles in each asset class," Greg Smith, chief investment strategist at Prudential Securities, told clients yesterday. For stocks, this was the large-capitalization growth stocks, which are unlikely to "return to the growth rates they had previously shown."
Still, inflation fears should ease and June should prove "pretty good for both stocks and bonds," Mr. Smith predicted. Some of yesterday's biggest gyrations were in Ameritrade, the on-line broker, which closed with a gain of 5 7/8, to 85 5/8, after trading as low as 73 and as high as 91 5/8. On April 14, the shares were worth more than twice as much, peaking at 188 3/8. Charles Schwab, the nation's biggest on-line broker, slumped as low as 91 1/4 yesterday before finishing at 96 1/8, down 3 3/8.
After trading as low as 151 1/2, Ebay rallied to close up 2 5/16, to 168 13/16, while Amazon.com recovered from a low of 97 1/8 and finished up 6 5/16, to 112 1/8.
J. P. Morgan lost 2 5/8, to 130 7/8, the biggest drag on the Dow, while I.B.M. had the most positive impact, rising 1 3/4, to 113 3/4.
American Home Products, which tumbled on Tuesday after announcing an earnings shortfall, recovered 1 13/16, to 53 13/16.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Flat
 By Reuters
 Another wave of strong economic data jolted Treasuries yesterday, although the losses were contained by the notion the market has cheapened enough to entice buyers.
Early in the day, Treasury yields rose to their highest levels in at least a year after the Commerce Department reported a 9.2 percent rise in new single-family home sales in April to a 978,000-unit annual rate. That topped the 890,000 rate the market had expected.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond was unchanged at 90 22/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.92 percent, from 5.94 percent on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since May 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (63%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CBOE HOLDINGS INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ONLINE TRADING (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); NEW HOME SALES (71%); STOCK OPTIONS (59%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



41 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
A Fierce Bidding War for a Five-Star Refuge in Bangkok

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, June 2

 BODY:
Have a drink in the tranquil lobby of the Regent Hotel here, beneath palm fronds and the hand-painted silk ceiling, and you would scarcely guess that this five-star refuge is the object of one of the most lively and improbable bidding wars in Asia.
The combatants are Goldman, Sachs & Company and an American-born Thai citizen, William E. Heinecke. Goldman owns 34 percent of the Regent and wants to buy control of the hotel. Mr. Heinecke's company, Royal Garden Resort, owns about a one-quarter stake and is determined to fend off the investment bank. 
 The battle, which began after Goldman bought its holding in the Regent two months ago, reaches a crucial stage on Thursday, when both sides are required to submit final tender offers for the 356-room hotel. Neither will disclose its next move, but Mr. Heinecke maintains that cash alone will not guarantee victory.
"There is a lot more than just money involved," he said in his office here, cluttered with model airplanes and photographs of him at the wheel of a 1966 Ferrari racing car. "This property has a bit of emotion attached to it."
In truth, the outcome of the bidding war is less significant than the fact that it is taking place at all. Bangkok is glutted with half-empty hotels. And while it has been nearly two years since the devaluation of the Thai currency set off the Asian crisis, most investors still give this country a wide berth.
"This is the first takeover battle in Thailand since the crash," said Anil Thadani, chairman of Schroder Capital Partners, a private investment firm in Singapore that owns a stake in Royal Garden Resort. "Hopefully, it marks the reawakening of investor interest in Thailand."
The battle for the Regent also demonstrates that some assets in Thailand remain valuable, even amid the economic wreckage. Although the Regent's bookings and profits swooned in 1997, rooms began filling up again last year as Goldman and other foreign investment houses sent battalions of bankers to help Thailand sort out its debt-ridden banks and companies.
Goldman, which through its real estate funds owns stakes in the Essex House in New York and the Ritz-Carlton in Laguna Niguel, Calif., first became interested in the Regent last year, when a troubled Thai investor put a 24 percent stake up for sale. That deal was snatched by Mr. Heinecke.
Goldman returned the favor in April, when Mr. Heinecke thought he had completed a deal to buy an additional 33 percent from a Japanese investor. Instead, Goldman walked away with that stake and promptly made a tender offer for the rest of the Regent's parent, the Rajadamri Hotel Company.
"You don't get an opportunity, anywhere in the world really, to buy a five-star existing property because people tend to hold them for dear life," said Henry Cornell, who supervises Goldman, Sachs's equity investments in Asia.
Mr. Cornell said Goldman's bid is superior because it is offering to buy the entire hotel at a value of $45 million. Mr. Heinecke is only willing to buy 10 percent, just enough to keep Goldman from gaining effective control.
But Mr. Heinecke has been a wily opponent. The 49-year-old entrepreneur was born in the United States, but spent the last 36 years in Thailand. He has become a tycoon here with interests from hotels and restaurants to toiletries and golf accessories. In 1991, he became a Thai citizen.
Now, Mr. Heinecke is turning his local standing into a weapon. He is casting the battle as one between a scrappy local outfit and a giant foreign interloper. The argument resonates in a country where fears of foreign colonization have risen as much of corporate Thailand has tumbled into insolvency.
"There are people who feel that some foreigners have tried to take advantage of Thailand when it was down," Mr. Heinecke said.
Pravit Rojanaphruk, an editor and columnist at The Nation, an English-language newspaper here, said: "Of course, there are fears of foreigners overrunning Thai society. But whether it is bad for Thailand is debatable. The Thais who owned the assets before didn't do such a great job."
Mr. Cornell is careful not to criticize the Regent's managers, who he insists he would retain. But he noted that the company could do more. He said Goldman would use the Regent as a base to build or buy other hotels. For starters, he envisions a new Regent on the resort island of Phuket, in Thailand's south.
"This is a spectacular company with great assets," he said. "You need someone to imbue it with strategic purpose."
Mr. Heinecke said the Regent's shareholders do not want Goldman to turn the hotel into a vehicle for speculative ventures. Among the minority shareholders are the Thai Farmers Bank, the Crown Property Bureau, the business arm of Thailand's royal family, and the King himself.
So far, Mr. Heinecke seems to be holding his own. Barely 2 percent of the shares have been tendered to Goldman. Unless it offers more money or a stronger sales pitch, it is unlikely to gain control.
Mr. Cornell does not seem ready to give up, but he complains that a simple real estate deal has become a political football. "We're not the big, bad foreign bogyman," he said. "It's not like we're going to pick the hotel up, put it on a boat, and move it to New York City."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: With the economic crisis depressing prices, foreign and domestic investors see a great bargain in the Regent Hotel of Bangkok. The competition for control between William E. Heinecke, a Thai of U.S. origin, below, and Goldman, Sachs reaches the final offer stage today. (Peter Charlesworth for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (94%); 

COMPANY: REGENT HOTEL (BANGKOK, THAILAND); GOLDMAN SACHS & CO; ROYAL GARDEN RESORT GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: REGENT HOTEL (BANGKOK, THAILAND); GOLDMAN SACHS & CO; ROYAL GARDEN RESORT

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK (THAILAND); THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES RESORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TENDER OFFERS (88%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); DEVALUATION (64%); 

PERSON: HEINECKE, WILLIAM E; LANDLER, MARK WILLIAM E HEINECKE (94%); HENRY CORNELL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



42 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS;
Stop Bombing, China and Russia Insist

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 2

 BODY:
China and Russia repeated their demand today that NATO air strikes be halted before political talks to resolve the crisis in Yugoslavia begin.
Russia's Foreign Minister, Igor S. Ivanov, spent the day meeting with China's top leaders, discussing their shared opposition to the NATO bombing campaign and their mutual desire to foster a "strategic partnership" aimed at offsetting the global dominance of the United States. 
 A joint communique issued this afternoon by Mr. Ivanov and China's Foreign Minister, Tang Jiaxuan, said, "NATO's immediate halting of military operations is a precondition of a political settlement of the Kosovo issue."
Mr. Ivanov told reporters that plans were being laid for a state visit to China by President Boris N. Yeltsin later this year, following up President Jiang Zemin's visit to Russia and an ailing Mr. Yeltsin last year.
Mr. Ivanov said that increased political, economic and military cooperation between Russia and China "will contribute to stability and the interests of the international community" by helping to create a more "multipolar world."
While Russia has advanced military hardware to sell China, the scope for economic cooperation appears to be limited.
Total trade between the countries last year was only $5.5 billion, a small fraction of China's trade with Japan and the United States. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); KOSOVO (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (59%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (59%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; CHINA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); CHINA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); KOSOVO (92%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (59%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); BOMBINGS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); 

PERSON: IVANOV, IGOR S (MIN); TANG JIAXUAN (MIN) JIANG ZEMIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



43 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Teamsters Reach an Accord With Haulers of New Cars

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Averting a strike that would have disrupted the Big Three auto makers, the teamsters' union and trucking companies that haul new cars to dealers reached a tentative contract agreement yesterday in negotiations that were the first big test for James P. Hoffa, the union's new president.
Mr. Hoffa trumpeted the four-year contract as a major triumph for 12,800 car-haul workers, increasing their pay and pensions and providing health insurance to those who retire before the age of 65. In addition, the agreement for the first time provides coverage of prescription drugs, supplementing Medicare, for retirees 65 and over. 
 "This contract serves notice the teamsters are back," Mr. Hoffa said in a news conference yesterday morning at a hotel in Arlington, Va., where at 1 A.M. the two sides had reached agreement. "This contract sets a new standard for working people across the nation."
Mr. Hoffa's backers hope that the accord, struck 25 hours after the expiration of the old contract, is only one of many that will yield impressive wage and benefit gains like those his father, James R. Hoffa, achieved when he headed the International Brotherhood of Teamsters four decades ago.
But the new contract provided enough of a nod to management, including the lack of a raise in the first year, that the president's critics within the union were able to argue that it was in no way a home run.
Like a politician trying to put the best gloss on developments, Mr. Hoffa boasted that the union had persuaded the car haulers to surrender on two of their major demands: a lower starting pay for new car-haul workers and increased use of part-timers.
Throughout the negotiations, industry officials had argued that they needed to reduce labor costs and gain more flexibility to keep railroads and nonunion companies from increasing their share of the car-haul market. But Ian Hunter, the chief negotiator for National Automobile Transporters Labor Division, which represents 17 car-hauling companies, acknowledged that he had made numerous concessions to prevent a walkout. "We were very eager to avoid a strike," Mr. Hunter said. "And we have succeeded in one of our acknowledged obligations, to improve the financial status of our employees."
Several industry analysts said a number of factors had given Mr. Hoffa the upper hand at the bargaining table. With Detroit churning out cars at record levels, even a short strike could have greatly disrupted dealer sales, especially those of hot-selling cars. Further, the nation's low unemployment rate would have made it harder for car-hauling companies to find replacements for striking workers. And the Wall Street boom has made it easier for the industry and its benefits fund to afford more generous pensions and health coverage.
"He obviously has won some important things in this agreement," Harley Shaiken, a professor of industrial relations at the University of California at Berkeley, said of Mr. Hoffa. "He went into it with important leverage. The auto makers didn't want a strike, and they leaned on their transporters."
The current average pay of the car-haul employees -- drivers and the garage workers who maintain the trucks -- is about $20 an hour. Under the agreement, which faces a ratification vote over the next few weeks, they are to receive a $1,500 lump-sum payment, rather than a raise, in the first year and then 50-cent-an-hour wage increases in years 2, 3 and 4.
Further, those with 25 years' experience will be able to retire at 55 with a $2,500 monthly pension; under the old contract, they could not receive a $2,500 pension until 57.
Mr. Hunter, the industry's chief negotiator, said the contract would increase labor costs 3 percent to 4 percent each year.
Terry Hewer, who as a business agent with Local 299 in Detroit represents 850 car-haul workers, said: "From what we've seen, it's an excellent contract. The negotiating committee did a good job meeting one of our biggest concerns, which was better pension benefits."
Mr. Hoffa declared that he had forced the industry to drop plans to use Mexican truckers to transport new cars to the United States from Mexican factories. But Mr. Hunter maintained that management had not put forward such a proposal. "We never asked to use Mexican drivers," he said, "not once."
Ken Paff, a longtime Hoffa critic who is national coordinator of Teamsters for a Democratic Union, said the contract provided for too many concessions. In particular, he cited a provision eliminating much of the overtime pay that car-haul workers now receive by working on weekends: in the Midwest and the South, the new agreement will allow companies to hire new mechanics and pay them straight time when they work on weekends, rather than time and a half or double time.
"Hoffa's brought back concessions to the teamsters," Mr. Paff said.
Detroit's Big Three welcomed the agreement. A strike of much duration at all could have cost the auto makers hundreds of millions of dollars in lost sales.
"We're very happy about it," said James Holden, DaimlerChrysler's executive vice president for sales and marketing. "You'd hate to have anything like a transportation interruption interrupt this market."
David Healy, an automobile analyst with Burnham Securities, said, "Generally car plants don't have enough space to store more than a couple days' output, so a strike would have clearly involved some plant shutdowns and some layoffs and would have whacked profits."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James P. Hoffa announcing a new contract with car haulers. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; WAGES AND SALARIES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; HEALTH INSURANCE WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TRUCKING (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); STRIKES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); MEDICARE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (55%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; HOFFA, JAMES P JAMES P HOFFA (94%); IAN HUNTER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



44 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: A Boom Built on Big Wheels;
Sales of Light Trucks Drive the Auto Industry's Expansion

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

 BODY:
Craig J. Thomas stands near the end of DaimlerChrysler A.G.'s assembly line in Fenton, Mo., and waits for a spindly orange robot to lower a pickup bed to meet the rest of a Dodge Ram truck. Then, 37 times an hour, 300 times a day, he bolts the bed to the truck and waits for the next pickup to reach him.
In mid-May, he got a break from the rhythm of the robots to celebrate with other workers: the company said it would spend $435 million to expand the Ram factory. 
 "In this industry, the first thing they teach us is it is feast or famine," said Mr. Thomas, 25, who has been feasting on overtime for two years. "A truck always sells."
The auto industry is feasting, too. Flush with profits from five fat years and scrambling to keep up with red-hot demand for pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, auto makers are on an expansion binge.
In just the last month, DaimlerChrysler, General Motors, American Honda Motor and Ford Motor have announced plans for outlays of a stunning $1.54 billion to upgrade factories or build new ones. Today, G.M. is expected to say it will spend another $1 billion to build a nine-story headquarters for its car engineers in Warren, Mich.
"There's a whole lot of new capacity," said Christopher J. Benko, managing director of the Autofacts Group, a unit of PricewaterhouseCoopers. "There are probably more plants coming."
And maybe trouble, too. In effect, the industry is gambling that the economy will just keep growing. If it is wrong -- if the economy stumbles and America's love affair with new cars and trucks cools -- the industry could be stuck with huge excess capacity, leading almost inevitably to price wars, skidding profits and labor unrest.
A recession seems a remote possibility right now, with auto sales hitting a record 6.9 million in the first five months of this year, up from a robust 6.4 million for the corresponding period last year. Still, some analysts say a slump in demand is not a question of if, but when.
"When the market starts to tail off, then you'll start to hear about some of the more negative aspects and the plant closings," said Michael E. Robinet, director of forecast services at CSM Worldwide, an auto research firm in Northville, Mich. "There will be some consolidation that will have to occur."
While auto makers don't know when the economy will head south, they do know that their rivals are breathing down their necks right now. And so they are focusing on giving customers what they want.
What they want are trucks. In 1990, cars accounted for slightly more than 67 percent of new-vehicle sales, while light trucks -- which include sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickups -- made up the rest. Last year, the two categories were almost neck and neck; cars made up 52.4 percent of sales and light trucks 47.6 percent.
Foreign auto makers, which have historically specialized in cars, are now counting heavily on America's truck fever, partly in response to the success of Mercedes-Benz's M-class sport utility vehicle.
Honda, best known for its dependable sedans, plans to invest $400 million to build a factory near tiny Lincoln, Ala., capable of producing 120,000 sport utility vehicles or minivans annually beginning in 2002.
"It will enable us to offer a full range of vehicles in the U.S., from small cars to light trucks," said Koichi Amemiya, American Honda's president and chief executive. "This demand has stretched our production to the limits."
In addition, Honda has said it plans to invest $30 million to increase engine-production capacity at its factory in Anna, Ohio, and another $30 million to add the capacity to build sport utility vehicles to its factory in Alliston, Ontario.
The Toyota Motor Corporation, meanwhile, is spending $500 million to expand its new $700 million Tundra pickup factory in Princeton, Ind., to enable it to build large sport utility vehicles there starting next year.
This fall, BMW will start building its X5 "sports activity vehicle" at the Spartanburg, S.C., factory where its Z3 roadsters are now built. BMW spent $600 million to expand the factory, and plans to hire 1,000 more workers to build the X5.
Ford and G.M. are hustling to meet demand, too -- or rather, in G.M.'s case, to create it. G.M. has seen its United States market share of passenger vehicles decline from 35.7 percent in 1990 to less than 30 percent last year; in a bid to reverse that slide, the company said last month that it would pay $450 million to build an assembly plant in Lansing, Mich., and $250 million for a plant producing transmissions for commercial trucks in White Marsh, Md.
Those projects come in addition to a $500 million commitment the company made last year to replace its V8-engine factory in Flint, Mich., with a V6-engine factory. Indeed, G.M. spent $21 billion to upgrade facilities in the United States between 1994 and 1998, and plans to invest $28 billion more between now and 2004.
Why the expansion drive at G.M. if sales are flagging? The company is desperate to build more popular trucks and fewer slow-selling cars. Executives are quietly planning to close inefficient factories and replace most of them with modern plants that can produce the same number of cars and trucks using half or a third as many workers.
To placate its unions, G.M.has pledged to reduce its work force through retirements, not layoffs. And it has tried to locate new plants near old ones so current employees can take the new jobs.
"In total, we will not increase our overall capacity," said Ronald L. Zarrella, president of G.M. North America. "While the Lansing plant is a car plant, the general direction of those footprint decisions will be to shift more of our mix from cars to trucks, crossover vehicles and other truck derivatives."
Alone among the big auto makers, Ford has avoided building new factories. Instead, it has managed to squeeze more production from existing plants, notably by increasing their ability to switch from one model to another. Just last week, for example, Ford said it would assemble a new luxury pickup truck, the Lincoln Blackwood, at the factory in Claycomo, Mo., where it makes its F-series pickups.
These expansion announcements come as G.M., Ford and DaimlerChrysler prepare for negotiations this month for a new three-year labor contract, and the United Automobile Workers is certain to demand the renewal of clauses that protect employees against layoffs.
But the U.A.W. has failed to organize workers at foreign-owned plants, and the discrepancy creates an uneven playing field. It means lower labor costs for Japanese and European auto makers in good times and bad. While U.A.W. workers are guaranteed 95 percent of their pay even if they are laid off, companies with nonunion workers would not face those high costs if they needed to shut factories down in slow times.
Right now, the U.A.W. is fighting the teamsters' union for the right to organize workers at Honda's Ohio factories. Hoping to exploit Daimler-Benz's acquisition of Chrysler last year, it is also campaigning to add Mercedes-Benz's American workers to its roster, as well as those at Freightliner, a DaimlerChrysler unit that builds heavy trucks.
In top-level sessions in Germany during DaimlerChrysler's annual shareholder meeting last month,the union accused the company of anti-labor activities and pressed it to remain neutral as the union continues its drive to represent the Alabama workers.
But even as the U.A.W. seeks to expand its influence, labor experts warn that it must cast aside its old militancy for the sake of job security for the next generation of workers.
"There is a real challenge here for labor," said David L. Gregory, a law professor at St. John's University in Queens. "To be competitive in an international economy, the unions are going to have to cooperate with management."
DaimlerChrysler's expansion of its Jeep factory in Toledo, Ohio, is a good example of the pressures the union faces. After Chrysler said it might close the aging factory and build a replacement elsewhere, workers -- and the city -- engaged in an extensive "keep Jeep" campaign.
In the end, the company decided to spend $600 million refurbishing the old factory and another $600 million to build a new one next door. But together, the two modern factories will employ just 4,900 workers, down from 5,600 in the existing factory, because they will be more efficient.
Ohio taxpayers will pay a big piece of the tab: The company won concessions from the city and state worth $232 million, or about $47,000 for each job retained. This combination has drawn fire from Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate, as an egregious example of "corporate welfare" because the company won concessions in exchange for downsizing. Mr. Nader also questioned whether residents whose homes are to be demolished to make room for the factory were fairly compensated.
DaimlerChrysler makes no apologies. "The city has worked with the neighbors and I think everybody is happy now," said Gary L. Henson, senior vice president for manufacturing at DaimlerChrysler. "We're going to continue to reduce our costs as we modernize."
Because the company's trucks have proved so popular, its Chrysler unit has added 15,000 workers during the 1990's. At its Dodge Ram Quad Cab factory in Fenton, DaimlerChrysler will receive $10 million to $20 million in aid from the State of Missouri for worker training, but no tax breaks in exchange for its expansion.
DaimlerChrysler's investment has cheered the workers in Fenton. "We've been through a plant closing, the old-timers have, and we know what that means," said Randy Glover, president of U.A.W. Local 136. "Thank God people can't get enough of this Dodge truck."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dodge Ram trucks have been selling so well that DaimlerChrysler plans to expand its assembly plant in Fenton, Mo. (Greg Rannells for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Chassis of Dodge Ram trucks head through the priming tanks at the assembly plant in Fenton, Mo. The light-truck category has grown to make up almost half the passenger-vehicle market in the United States. (Greg Rannells for The New York Times)(pg. C20)
 
Chart: "Fever Pitch"
The auto industry is on an expansion binge, building new factories and expanding or modifying existing ones to lift its ability to churn out pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles. Chart tracks Share of factories' production capacity in light trucks and in cars, from 1997 through a projected 2003. It also tracks factory utilization in cars and in light trucks over the same period.
 
Recent announcements
 
INVESTMENTS IN MILLIONS
 
G.M.
$450 -- New assembly plant in Lansing, Mich.
$250 -- New commercial-truck-transmission factory in White Marsh, Md.
$500 -- Fulfill commitment to replace V-8 plant in Flint, Mich. with a V-6.
 
BMW
$600 -- Expand factory in Spartanburg, S.C., to build X5 "sports activity vehicle"
 
Toyota
$500 -- Expand new pickup factory in Princeton, Ind. to build large S.U.V.'s
 
Honda
$400 -- New factory near Lincoln, Ala. for S.U.V.'s or minivan
$30 -- Increase engine production in Anna, Ohio
$30 -- Add capacity to build S.U.V.'s in Alliston, Ont.
 
DaimlerChrysler
$435 -- Expand pickup plant in Fenton, Mo.
 
Ford
N.A. -- Expand factories in Claycomo, Mo. and Wixom, Mich. to produce additional models
 
(Source: PriceWaterhouseCoopers' Autofacts Group)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (92%); DAI (BIT) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); HMC (NYSE) (82%); 7267 (TSE) (82%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (75%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: DAIMLERCHRYSLER; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO; FORD MOTOR CO DAIMLER AG (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (90%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO; FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (75%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; SALES MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (88%); PICKUP TRUCKS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); CLOSINGS (69%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); PRICE CUTTING (62%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN CRAIG J THOMAS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



45 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The new welfare rules may be tested in the next recession.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein 

 BODY:
PROPONENTS of the 1996 welfare law are finding plenty of reasons to feel smug these days. Republican leaders held a news conference last week to proclaim a triumph after releasing a study by the General Accounting Office that showed plunging welfare rolls, soaring employment rates among former recipients and no burst of homelessness, as many of the law's opponents had predicted.
So should opponents, including several high-ranking Administration officials who resigned when President Clinton signed the Republican-sponsored bill, acknowledge they were wrong? 
 "No," says Wendell Primus, one of those officials who resigned in protest and who now works for the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group in Washington. It might seem churlish to slough off all the good news, but Mr. Primus has a point. The test of the '96 act comes when the next recession hits and there will be no Federal security blanket for the first time in 60 years. In an interview this week, Mr. Primus echoed testimony he gave to Congress last week. "Many former recipients are surviving on less income today than when they were on welfare. And the number that will need to return to the rolls in the next few months or years in an effort to make up for their lost income by combining work and welfare could prove staggeringly high."
First, the good news. Douglas J. Besharov, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group, testified last week that the welfare law, rather than the robust economy, was a key reason "for this unprecedented decline -- now reaching 44 percent since March 1994" in caseloads. He estimates that there are almost seven million fewer people on welfare. He cites an analysis by the Federal budget office that reductions in welfare benefits were offset by "two or threefold gains in income due to work." Besides, he says, perhaps 30 percent of poor single-mother families live with nonfamily members from whom they can derive support.
The General Accounting Office adds to the cheery evaluation. Its review of studies from seven states finds employment rates of people who left welfare rolls ranging from 61 percent to 87 percent. Those are stunningly high numbers, well beyond predictions when the law was passed. By contrast, the employment rates among current welfare recipients hover around 30 percent.
Sarah Brauner and Pamela Loprest at the Urban Institute reviewed 11 studies of people who have recently left welfare and turned up another encouraging result: More than half of the employed people who left welfare worked 30 or more hours a week, nearly full time. A few of the studies found that a majority of recent welfare recipients report life is better for those who leave the rolls.
Mr. Primus presents a darker view. Incomes of single-mother families did rise before the 1996 act passed. But between 1995 and 1997, the income of the poorest 20 percent of single-mother families fell by almost 8 percent despite a fast-growing economy, a substantial increase in Federal tax credits for poor working parents and the fact that time limits on welfare benefits had not kicked in. The fall in welfare benefits overwhelmed the rise in earnings. And Mr. Primus rebuts Mr. Besharov's suggestion that the income of nonfamily members could fill in the gap. "Maybe 3 percent of the million households who lost money coped by sharing income," he said.
"I find an income loss for roughly a million families of $860 per family, which represents a decline of 15 percent," he added. "That's big."
Mr. Primus also points out that welfare rolls fell after 1995 five times more than did the number of people living in poverty. He says that Mr. Besharov exaggerates the importance of income gains reported by the Government for all female-headed families because many of those families were not poor. In one study, only 35 percent of those who left welfare earned as much as $12,000 a year, and even that level falls short of the poverty level for a family of three by about $1,000. A Wisconsin study showed that between a third and a half of those who left welfare for good had income above the poverty level.
The Urban Institute study concludes that most people who leave welfare "report having incomes that are lower than or similar to their combined earnings and benefits before exit." Its review also shows that only about half to two-thirds of people who leave welfare receive Medicaid benefits and only about half receive food stamps even though the welfare law did not withdraw these benefits. Participation rates for those who leave welfare are much lower than among those who continue on welfare. About a third of the families who leave report problems paying for food and utilities.
Mr. Primus focuses on another threatening statistic. In Maryland, about 20 percent of welfare recipients returned to the rolls after 3 months. In Wisconsin, about 30 percent returned after 15 months. "The issue of families needing to return to welfare will become more important as increasing numbers of recipients reach their time limit on aid and returning to the rolls will no longer be an option for them," he said.
The data behind any evaluation of the welfare-to-work programs are skimpy. Few states have conducted reliable surveys. "We could draw no conclusion about the status of most families that have left welfare," the General Accounting Office says. But Mr. Primus and others provide enough cautionary tidbits to make the case that "considerable caution ought to be exercised before pronouncing welfare reform an unqualified success."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE; CENTER ON BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (83%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE; CENTER ON BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (83%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HOMELESS PERSONS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); FAMILY (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (61%); 

PERSON: PRIMUS, WENDELL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



46 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
As the Euro Falls, Some in Europe Fault German Growth and Leadership

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, June 2

 BODY:
During his campaign a year or so ago to reassure anxious Germans about adopting a new European currency, then-Chancellor Helmut Kohl insisted at almost every opportunity that the euro would be "as strong as the Deutsche mark."
But now, five months after the euro's well-publicized debut, the original fear has proved almost exactly wrong. It is not the euro that is dragging down Germany, but German issues that are dragging down the euro. 
 Having dropped nearly 12 percent against the dollar since its introduction on Jan. 4, the European single currency reached a new low here today of $1.0327, settling later in New York at 1.0355, and is inching ever closer to the economically insignificant but politically mortifying level of 1-to-1.
The euro's plunge has ignited a round of finger-pointing between European political leaders and European central bankers, who met today and refused to intervene on behalf of the currency.
But it has also put the spotlight on Germany, which accounts for one third of the 11-nation euro zone's total output, and on its Social Democratic Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder.
Otmar Issing, the European Central Bank's chief economist and a former top official at the German central bank, said this week that Germany was in danger of becoming "the sick man of Europe."
Economic growth is running well below 2 percent, slower than any other euro zone country but Italy. Its exports are languishing, investment capital is heading overseas and unemployment remains stuck above 10 percent.
And at the center of all that is a continued paralysis over reducing Germany's high tax rates and making its rigid work rules more flexible.
"It is not the Portuguese, the Spanish, the Irish or the French that are pulling down the value of the common currency," wrote Oliver Schumacher on the front page of today's issue of Die Zeit, the influential German weekly. "No, it is above all the Germans."
The political implications are profound. Mr. Schroder, who is playing host at a meeting of European heads of government on Thursday in Cologne, had hoped to produce a common declaration on plans to fight unemployment.
But he was unable to reach agreement with France, and the meeting will in any case be overshadowed by the euro's decline and by deliberations over the war in Yugoslavia.
He and many other economists have harshly criticized Mr. Schroder's unwillingness to push for deep economic changes -- much deeper cuts in social spending, corporate tax rates and regulation.
Thanks in part to the Yugoslav war, which has given Mr. Schroder the image of a refreshingly tough leader on foreign policy, the Chancellor's popularity has climbed in recent polls.
But the economic problems have ignited a new wave of criticism about what his detractors call a rudderless leadership.
To be sure, the euro has other problems. Investors were rattled last week when European finance ministers agreed to let Italy run a slightly higher budget deficit than it had originally promised. The war for Kosovo underpins such pessimism.
But most economists agree that German stagnation is the biggest problem. More than anything else, they say, the euro's decline stems from a glaring contrast between slow growth in Europe and the continuing surge of the United States economy.
And that disparity stems primarily from Germany as well as Italy, which together account for about half of the euro zone's economic activity.
France's output is growing at an annual rate of more than 2 percent. Many smaller European countries -- Finland, the Netherlands, Spain, Portugal and Ireland -- are growing well above 3 percent annually, overcoming problems caused by the Asian financial crisis and its aftermath.
"The United States, with its high degree of flexibility, has managed to get through the problems fairly well and so did some of the smaller countries" in Europe, said Thomas Mayer, a senior economist at Goldman, Sachs here. "But Germany has not."
German Government officials dismissed such criticism today, arguing that the euro's decline was not a problem in itself and that German growth would accelerate.
"I am confident of a pickup in the second half of the year," Economics Minister Werner Muller, said in an Italian newspaper interview.
A weak euro does give Europe a lift because exports become cheaper and therefore more competitive in the American and other foreign markets. But the euro's decline also undermines its credibility and puts the European Central Bank in an increasingly difficult position.
Precisely because European growth has slowed so sharply, the central bank cut its base-line interest rate to 2.5 percent from 3 percent early in April. If the bank now tried to defend the currency by raising rates, it would very likely slow European economies further. Bank officials also argue that attempts to intervene in world money markets would almost certainly be futile.
Wim Duisenberg, the president of the European Central Bank, appeared tired and impatient with reporters' questions about the euro's decline after a board meeting here today.
"These very short-term volatile movements in exchange rates -- I'm inclined to play them down," Mr. Duisenberg said. But other board members, notably the outgoing president of the Bundesbank, Hans Tietmeyer, have in the last few days said that they are unhappy about the euro's fall.
Mr. Duisenberg tried to dampen expectations about intervening in world markets, but he left himself room for maneuvering.
"I will comment on intervention when it is necessary to do so," he said, adding that "the issue of intervention was discussed only to the extent that we spoke about what I should say when a question comes on the issue of intervention."
The key question, though, comes back to Germany and Mr. Schroder. Gerhard Grebe, an economist here with Bank Julius Baer, said investors were closely watching what his new Finance Minister, Hans Eichel, would propose in its next round of tax reforms, due on June 30.
"The new Government created a lot of uncertainty that damaged the relationship with the corporate sector," Mr. Grebe said. "If Eichel comes up with really substantive cuts in corporate rates and real relief, then everybody will realize there is a change in public policy."
But so far, Mr. Schroder has shown little willingness to challenge the orthodox socialist wing of his Social Democratic Party on some major policy issues. Indeed, he has ignited a new round of protests from industry groups by pushing through laws that remove the tax-free status of people in low-paying part-time jobs.
"There has been a complete failure to act on structural reforms," said Stephen Bell, an economist at Deutsche Bank Securities. "Indeed, they've been marching in the other direction."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Undermining The Euro"
The price of the euro has fallen this year because economic weakness in Europe has kept interest rates low while rates in the United States have climbed in expectation of a Federal Reserve rate increase. Graph tracks 3-month Treasury bill yields for the United States and for Germany, since the beginning of the year. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Services) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; EUROPE; ITALY; GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TAXATION EURO (93%); EURO ZONE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); GERMAN MARK (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; ISSING, OTMAR; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) GERHARD SCHRODER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



47 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Files Lawsuit Challenging Tax Repeal

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani sued the state yesterday in an attempt to reverse the commuter tax repeal, saying that state lawmakers should have asked the city's permission before abolishing the tax last month.
The lawsuit, filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, charges that the state cannot eliminate taxes that feed the city treasury without a request, known as a home-rule message, from the Mayor and the City Council. It also charges that the State Legislature violated its own rules by rushing the repeal through, and that it failed to amend the city's administrative code to reflect the repeal. 
 "We are going into this lawsuit in a very optimistic fashion," said Michael D. Hess, the city's Corporation Counsel, who joined Mr. Giuliani in an afternoon news conference at City Hall. "We want to retain that money for the good uses that the city will put it to."
The city's lawsuit came a day after elected officials in New Jersey and Connecticut filed their own legal challenges to the commuter tax repeal, which applies only to residents of New York State. Those suits charged that the Legislature acted unconstitutionally by abolishing the tax for New Yorkers but not for commuters from other states.
Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Gov. George E. Pataki, said in response to the lawsuit, "We are confident that this $210 million tax cut will be upheld and provide another important boost to the economy." And State Senator Dean G. Skelos, a Nassau County Republican who sponsored the repeal, said the suit was "simply without merit."
Mr. Skelos said the state did not need the city's approval to pass the repeal because city residents do not pay the commuter tax. He also said that "the power of taxation is vested with the State Legislature," and that "the power to create the tax carries with it the inherent power to repeal that tax."
Mr. Giuliani has been railing against the repeal for weeks, saying that commuters should help pay for city services and complaining that the unexpected loss of revenue would force him to scale back tax cuts for city residents. The repeal will cost the city at least $210 million a year, and if New Jersey and Connecticut succeed in their lawsuits, the loss will increase to $360 million a year.
Peter F. Vallone, the City Council Speaker, joined Mr. Giuliani in filing the suit, as did Alan G. Hevesi, the City Comptroller; Mark Green, the Public Advocate, and Guy V. Molinari, the Staten Island Borough President.
The Mayor and the Speaker have complained that the commuter tax repeal has hindered their progress in negotiating a new budget, which the Council is legally required to adopt by June 5. Both sides have said the sudden loss of revenue would force them to jettison many of their own tax cut proposals, including reductions in several business and sales taxes.
With the deadline for adopting a budget looming, Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Vallone are still arguing over how much to spend on stadium and school construction, which taxes to reduce and whether to restore cuts to libraries, museums and community programs, people familiar with the negotiations said yesterday. The Mayor's budget plan includes $166 million in cuts to those institutions and programs, but the Council wants to restore those cuts and provide even more money.
The Mayor and the Speaker made little progress toward an agreement in a meeting yesterday afternoon, one official said. But aides to both men said they still believed an agreement could be reached by early next week. Meanwhile, both leaders are trying to focus public attention on the loss of the commuter tax revenue, and how it will affect the city's $35 billion budget.
"We are very disappointed that the leadership in Albany decided to play the game of politics without inviting the people they were playing against to participate," Mr. Vallone said yesterday. "This lawsuit is the last hope that we have of saving the city of New York from a $400 million rip-off every single year."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (51%); CITY COUNCIL (77%); STATE LEGISLATURE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (77%); STATE LEGISLATURE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; COMMUTING SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (57%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



48 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE WHITE HOUSE;
Clinton, in Air Force Address, Warnes Milosevic to 'Cut His Losses' and Accept NATO's Terms

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: COLORADO SPRINGS, June 2

 BODY:
President Clinton today urged Slobodan Milosevic to "cut his losses" by bending to allied demands for ending the NATO attacks on Yugoslavia.
The alternative, Mr. Clinton warned the Yugoslav President, is the military and economic devastation of Serbia. 
 In an address to the 944 graduates of the Air Force Academy in Falcon Stadium here, Mr. Clinton asserted again that the NATO air campaign is grinding down the Serbian army and vowed that it would prevail if the allies and their people do not grow weary of the costly operation, now in its 10th week.
"Day by day, night by night, our air campaign is succeeding," Mr. Clinton told the newly commissioned second lieutenants in their new blue-and-white uniforms. "There is a clear choice before the Serbian leader: He can cut his losses now and accept the basic requirements of a just peace, or he can continue to face military failure and economic ruin on his people. In the end, the outcome will be the same."
Mr. Clinton also formally announced a NATO plan to dispatch about 50,000 troops to the Balkans to escort more than 800,000 refugees back to their homes in Kosovo after the conflict ends. The United States will contribute 7,000 troops, Mr. Clinton said.
Administration officials said it had not been determined precisely what forces the United States would contribute, but they said the contingent would include armed troops trained for combat as well as engineering units to clear mines, build roads and provide shelter.
With the snow-frosted summit of Pike's Peak as a backdrop, the President responded to critics in the United States and Europe who say the removal of human-rights observers from Kosovo and the beginning of the air attacks in March touched off Mr. Milosevic's expulsions of non-Serbs from Kosovo, the province in southern Serbia.
The President said the assaults on the Kosovars were planned for months before the allied air strikes began. He said that Mr. Milosevic had driven thousands of Kosovars of Muslim descent from their homes last fall, and that Serbian troops had massacred civilians in Rajac in January.
"Ethnic cleansing in Kosovo was not a response to bombing," Mr. Clinton said. "It is the 10-year method of Mr. Milosevic's madness. Had we done nothing, the tragedy would have been permanent, accepted and in effect condoned by the world community.
"He could not be prevented, therefore, from driving the Kosovars from their land. But he can be prevented from keeping them out of their land. His 10-year cleansing campaign will end once and for all."
By tradition, the President addresses the graduates at one of the four military academies each year, on a rotating basis. Mr. Clinton also spoke here in 1995.
In 1997 Mr. Clinton used his address at the United States Military Academy at West Point, N.Y., to emphasize the benefits of the expansion of NATO to include Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. He said NATO's growth would insure a more stable and peaceful Europe and noted that many ethnic and border conflicts in eastern and southern Europe had been resolved since the end of the cold war.
"That in turn," Mr. Clinton told the new Army officers then, "makes it less likely that you will ever be called to fight in another war across the Atlantic."
Two years later, at today's Air Force Academy commencement, Mr. Clinton announced the planned deployment of the 7,000 Americans to the Balkans. He also saluted two academy graduates who are flying missions in the region.
"I am very proud of them and very proud of you for following in their tradition," Mr. Clinton told today's graduates.
Mr. Clinton repeated pledges of reconstruction aid for Albania, Macedonia and other nations that have borne the tide of refugees from Kosovo.
He said the United States and its European allies have moral and strategic interests in bringing peace and prosperity to the poorest corner of Europe. He even promised help to rebuild Serbia after the war "if, but only if, it practices democracy, respects human rights and has leaders who uphold the basic standards of human conduct."
He did not condition that aid on the overthrow or departure of President Milosevic. But Joe Lockhart, the White House press secretary, said, "It's hard to see a role for someone like Milosevic in a democratic Serbia."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of the 944 new Air Force lieutenants, Robert Wayne Wolfe, got a hand from the President at the Academy's graduation yesterday. Mr. Clinton said 7,000 American troops would help Kosovars return home. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); 

CITY: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (COLORADO); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (59%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); US AIR FORCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (COLORADO); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (59%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); US AIR FORCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (79%); COLORADO, USA (94%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); LANDMINES (78%); ARMIES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); TRENDS (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



49 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Federal Jury Deadlocked In Genentech Patent Case
A Federal jury deadlocked in a lawsuit contending that Genentech had infringed a University of California patent in developing its first big product, human growth hormone.
The deadlock represented a narrow escape for Genentech because the panel vote was 8 to 1 in favor of the university, according to the jury's foreman. The university said it would ask for a new trial. Page C10. 

Germany Scrutinized as Euro Slides
Having dropped more than 10 percent against the dollar since its introduction at the beginning of the year, the euro hit a new low, dragged down in large part by Germany's languishing economy. The plunge has ignited a round of finger-pointing between European political leaders and European central bankers, but it has especially put the spotlight on Germany, which accounts for one-third of the euro-zone's total economic output, and its new left-of-center chancellor, Gerhard Schroeder. C6.
 
Bank Reviews Deal With Robertson
The Bank of Scotland is reviewing its joint telephone and Internet banking venture with Pat Robertson, the conservative American television evangelist, after criticism from depositors. Responding to Scottish disapproval of him, Mr. Robertson once called Scotland a "dark place." C4.
 
Auto Sales Increased 5.3% in May
Auto executives were exuberant about May car and truck sales, which rose 5.3 percent and continued to propel the industry toward its best year ever despite weak monthly results from General Motors. For the first five months of 1999, buyers have snapped up 6.9 million cars, sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks. C20.
 
Stocks Drop Early, Then Rebound
Stocks slumped in early trading but rebounded after bargain hunters scooped up shares of Internet and other high-technology issues. The Nasdaq composite index gained 20.38 points, or eight-tenths of a percent, to 2,432.41. The Dow Jones industrial average ended 18.37 points lower, or two-tenths of a percent, at 10,577.89. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.55 point, to 1,294.81. C8.
 
A Contract for Car Haulers
The teamsters' union and companies that haul new cars to dealers have reached a tentative agreement, averting a strike that would have disrupted the Big Three auto makers. A18.
 
Sales and Prices of New Homes Rise
Sales of new homes unexpectedly surged 9.2 percent in April to the second-highest level ever, driving prices to a record high. Sales rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 978,000 units, exceeding forecasts for a 1.5 percent decline. The median price of new homes rose 3 percent in April, to a record $159,500 from $154,800 in March. That is 7.8 percent higher than a year earlier. C9.
 
Verdict Still Out on Welfare Law
Although a Government study shows plunging welfare rolls, soaring employment rates among former welfare recipients and no burst of homelessness in the wake of the 1996 welfare-reform law, critics say it is too early to call the measure an unqualified success. Michael M. Weinstein: Economic Scene. C2.
 
A Fierce Hotel Bidding War
Bids for the 356-room Regent Hotel in Bangkok, Thailand, will be received today, ending a battle between Goldman, Sachs and an American-born Thai citizen. C4.
 
Microsoft Offers a Rebuttal
Microsoft argued in court that it has faced stiff competition, trying to undermine the monopoly position that lies at the heart of the Government's antitrust case. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,577.89, down 18.37
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.92%, down 0.02
The Dollar -- 121.33 yen, up 0.77
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
 
Factory Orders
 April figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -0.5%
 
Another graph tracks percent change in new home prices, month-to-month, from November 1998 through April 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES JURY TRIALS (92%); PATENTS (90%); PATENT LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (87%); HOME PRICES (84%); LITIGATION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); CURRENCIES (76%); EURO ZONE (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (74%); MINIVANS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (70%); INTERNET BANKING (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); PICKUP TRUCKS (65%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



50 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Vehicle Sales Increased by 5.3% in May

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 2

 BODY:
Auto executives were exuberant today as May's car and truck sales propelled the industry toward its best year ever.
Despite weak results from the General Motors Corporation, the industry's sales rose 5.3 percent in May compared with results in the period a year earlier, when sales were also stellar. Last month's seasonally adjusted annual sales rate of 17.3 million was surpassed only by a rate of 17.8 million set in December 1986. Anything more than an annual rate of 15 million rate is considered strong. 
 For the first five months of 1999, buyers have snapped up 6.9 million cars, sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks, well ahead of the 6.4 million they bought in the first five months of 1986 -- the industry's best sales year.
"May was a blockbuster sales month for Ford and the industry -- stronger than we expected," said Robert Rewey, the Ford Motor Company's group vice president for marketing, sales and service. "A record year is within reach."
Ford sales rose 8.1 percent, to 379,153 vehicles. Light-truck sales climbed 5.8 percent, while car sales rose 11.5 percent. The results exclude Volvo, which Ford bought earlier this year.
"Consumers are responding to strong economic fundamentals -- growth in jobs and income, low inflation and interest rates, as well as innovative products," Mr. Rewey said. "We believe those fundamentals will keep U.S. auto sales healthy for the rest of 1999."
Chrysler, the American unit of DaimlerChrysler A.G., had its best month ever. "We're thrilled with the performance for the month," said James P. Holden, executive vice president for sales and marketing at DaimlerChrysler. "It's been a great five months." He predicted the industry would exceed the record of 16.1 million vehicles sold in 1986.
DaimlerChrysler's sales rose 5.9 percent, to 264,732, with car sales up 1.5 percent and sales of sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks up 7.7 percent. The company's Mercedes-Benz unit saw its sales rise 6.8 percent, to 16,732.
The industry's sales gains came despite a 4.4 percent sales decline last month at G.M., compared with its sales in May 1998.
"The market this month once again was really hot," said Roy S. Roberts, vice president and group executive for North America vehicle sales, service and marketing at G.M., which sells more cars and trucks in the United States than any other company. So far this year, G.M.'s sales are running 1.3 percent higher than they were in the first five months of last year.
G.M.'s car sales dropped 6.7 percent, while its sales of sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks fell 1.9 percent. Most of the declines came from Chevrolet, G.M.'s largest division, where sales fell 11.4 percent. Sales of full-size sport utility vehicles like the Suburban, the Chevy Tahoe and GMC Yukon were so weak that G.M. executives are considering whether to offer rebates on them to bolster sales.
The Toyota Motor Corporation said its sales rose 4.7 percent, to 142,625, in May compared with results in the period a year earlier, and an executive there said the industry's sales pace seemed to have climbed to a new level. "There seems to be a developing consensus that this is a new plateau, not merely a surge," said Yale Gieszl, executive vice president at Toyota Motor Sales.
The Honda Motor Company's sales rose 6 percent, to 98,158, last month, with sales of pickup trucks, minivans and sport utility vehicles jumping 42.6 percent because the Odyssey minivan is proving so popular. Car sales inched up four-tenths of 1 percent.
Five years of strong sales, which seem to be only getting stronger, have prompted Honda and many other auto makers to announce plans to build new factories or expand existing factories.
Particularly because sales have been so strong this year, auto makers were relieved to learn today that the teamsters' union and the vehicle-transport companies that deliver new cars to showrooms had averted a strike by agreeing to a new four-year contract. Page A18.
"With the threat of a car-transporter strike behind us, we are looking forward to a strong summer selling season," said Dick Colliver, executive vice president of American Honda.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in May" tracks annual selling rate for cars and for light trucks sold in the United States, seasonally adjusted, from November 1997 through May 1999. It also shows car and light truck sales and market share figures for the month of May. (Source: Ward's Auto Info Bank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); DAI (FRA) (82%); DAI (BIT) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER; HONDA MOTOR CO; TOYOTA MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (94%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); DAIMLER AG (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER; HONDA MOTOR CO; TOYOTA MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MINIVANS (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



51 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Scalping Law Trims Wallets Of Knick Fans

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
IF you wanted to see the Knicks play the Pacers in Indianapolis Tuesday night, you could have bought a seat for $65 from a ticket broker. But if you'd like to see them play this weekend in Madison Square Garden, expect to pay at least $250.
One possible explanation for this price difference is that New York is a much bigger city with more affluent fans competing for seats. But you find a similar gap even when you compare New York with Los Angeles, another metropolis with lots of wealthy fans. 
 During the first two rounds of the basketball playoffs, when the Lakers were still in contention, brokers were selling tickets to games in Los Angeles for $50. The cheapest seats available in New York during those earlier rounds cost three to four times as much.
Why so much more? Perhaps the main reason is that so many politicians are determined to protect us. Unlike California and Indiana and most other states, New York outlaws ticket scalping, and Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer has just issued an inch-thick report demanding even stiffer penalties for scalpers.
New York's law, which was renewed this week by the Legislature, makes it illegal to resell a ticket for more than 10 percent above the face value. Ticket brokers have evaded the law by operating in New Jersey and Connecticut, but they still run the risk of prosecution if they make a deal with anyone in New York. These restrictions on the legal flow of tickets have fostered black market practices and prices.
By contrast, people in Los Angeles and Indianapolis can resell tickets for whatever they want, so the holders of season tickets to Laker and Pacer games can readily profit by selling their playoff seats to brokers. And although the brokers are legally free to charge astronomical prices, there are so many tickets on the open market that they cost less than in New York.
"The more you allow tickets to be openly traded, the more you'll see prices come down," said Stephen Happel, a professor of economics at Arizona State University at Tempe. He has seen this process firsthand in Phoenix, where he helped persuade the authorities to establish areas outside sports arenas at which licensed brokers, street scalpers and fans can sell tickets on game day at any price they want.
"New York is such an anomaly," Dr. Happel said. "Right there under the shadow of Wall Street, you're trying to turn people into criminals for buying and selling pieces of paper that are essentially no different from call options. But you can't defeat the laws of demand and supply. The more restrictions you put on selling tickets, the more you'll drive up prices, and the more you'll encourage hard-core criminals to get in the business."
The criminal results of the current law are amply documented in the report issued last week by the Attorney General. His investigators took more than four years studying brokers and box office employees to discover what was already known by economists and citizens of the old Soviet Union: when you fix the price for something below its market value, people will pay bribes to get their hands on it.
THE report says the widespread corruption should be combated by classifying box office bribery and ticket scalping as felonies. (They are now misdemeanors.) But why not eliminate the crime wave by eliminating the crime? In an interview, the Attorney General was asked why a ticket broker shouldn't be as free to set prices as, say, a real estate developer like Mr. Spitzer's father.
"You could make a theoretically powerful argument in favor of lifting price controls on tickets," Mr. Spitzer said. "But a legislative decision was made to impose the controls, and that has created an attendant problem of commercial bribery. All we're trying to do is eliminate the bribery that has become endemic in the ticket industry."
Mr. Spitzer did have some words of encouragement for New Yorkers who would like the same freedom to buy tickets as people in other states. He suggested that box offices at arenas and Broadway theaters could start selling market-priced tickets on the Internet.
"Perhaps they could eliminate the middleman," Mr. Spitzer said, "and auction off tickets on Ebay directly to consumers."
The idea is intriguing, but it's hard to imagine the local box offices doing anything so creative very soon. For now, the cheapest way to see the playoffs is to drive to Indianapolis. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); INDIANA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS; INDIANA PACERS MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (58%); INDIANA PACERS (91%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (91%); INDIANA PACERS (91%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (91%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS; INDIANA PACERS INDIANA PACERS (91%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (91%); INDIANA PACERS (91%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (91%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); INDIANA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TICKET SCALPING; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; BASKETBALL; PLAYOFF GAMES TICKET SALES (91%); SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TICKET AGENCIES (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SPORTS BUSINESS (75%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN ELIOT SPITZER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



52 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS;
Clinton Warns Serbs To Cut Their Losses

 BODY:
President Clinton urged the Yugoslav leader, Slobodan Milosevic, to "cut his losses" by bending to allied demands for ending the NATO attacks on his country. The alternative, Mr. Clinton said in an address to graduating Air Force academy cadets in Colorado, is the military and economic devastation of Serbia. 
 Mr. Clinton also formally announced a NATO plan to dispatch about 50,000 troops to the Balkans to escort more than 800,000 refugees back to their homes in Kosovo after the conflict ends. The United States will contribute 7,000 of those troops.
Article, page A14. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); AIR FORCE ACADEMY (58%); AIR FORCE ACADEMY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); AIR FORCE ACADEMY (58%); AIR FORCE ACADEMY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (87%); AIR FORCES (84%); REFUGEES (83%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



53 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Hillary Clinton Deplores the Condition of New York Public Schools

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Signaling a likely theme for her potential Senate campaign, Hillary Rodham Clinton yesterday deplored the condition of New York City's public schools, asserting that they had been undermined by political infighting and underfinancing by City Hall.
In two speeches on the subject, the First Lady never mentioned Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican who has also expressed interest in running for the Senate next year. But her remarks -- at a spirited outdoor graduation at City College in Harlem and at a $500-a-plate Democratic fund-raising luncheon at Tavern on the Green -- clearly invoked the public battling between Mr. Giuliani and Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew and suggested that it was ruinous for the school system. Mrs. Clinton left little doubt that if she runs, she would attempt to make Mr. Giuliani's stewardship over the city's schools a central issue. 
 "We can never lift up our public schools -- or the students they serve -- by tearing them down," Mrs. Clinton said as students rose out of their seats in applause. "We can never insure the economic future of this city or state or our nation by undermining the public education system that is at the very foundation of the American dream."
Mrs. Clinton, who has been trying in recent weeks to use her recent travels to New York as a way of establishing some connection to the state where she has never lived, cited what she said was the motto for Public School 1 in Manhattan: "All children can learn -- no exceptions, no excuses."
"We can do this if we will stop pointing fingers and instead use our hands to roll up our sleeves and get to work together," she said.
Mr. Giuliani's aides have been expecting this line of attack, and some Democrats believe that the Mayor's recent criticism of Dr. Crew, whose appointment he had strongly supported, was a calculated effort to distance himself from problems in the schools. And Mr. Giuliani lingered at the lectern at City Hall when the topic came up yesterday, brushing away Mrs. Clinton's criticism as he sought to turn the discussion back to what his aides want to be the central subject of the campaign: her residency.
Asked if he viewed the speech as an attack on his education policies, Mr. Giuliani responded: "Well, I'm glad she found her way there. Next question."
When a reporter pressed him on the subject, he said: "I think that it's nice to see that she's finding her way around New York. Maybe I'll travel to Arkansas."
The crosstown exchange offered an early glimpse of the intensity that might accompany a contest between the two. The election to succeed Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who is retiring, is not until November 2000. But the rows of television cameras recording Mrs. Clinton's speech suggested the fierce interest that the hint of such a race has stirred, even though neither Mr. Giuliani nor Mrs. Clinton has announced that they are actually running.
Mrs. Clinton's remarks appeared sharper in tone that most of her recent speeches in New York, which have tended to offer broader discussions about the problems facing the nation. Her commencement speech contained passages that sounded very much like a political stump speech, complete with the kind of sharp, pungent sentences that are likely to find themselves onto the evening news.
The speech came one day after she spent 90 minutes meeting with Hank Morris, the Democratic consultant who helped run the successful campaign of Senator Charles E. Schumer last year. Mrs. Clinton's criticisms of the public school system yesterday were evocative of Mr. Schumer's attacks on Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato last year.
"No one wins, especially our children, if our schools are plagued by poor test scores and performance, by low expectations and social promotions," Mrs. Clinton declared, not mentioning that Mr. Giuliani is, in fact, a strong opponent of social promotion, the practice of allowing even failing students to go on to the next grade. "No one wins, especially our children, if politics takes up much needed seats in the classrooms."
Mrs. Clinton said she would support more money for early education and teacher training, as well as spending to improve run-down schools and to reduce class size.
She received a huge ovation as she entered the courtyard where City College was holding commencement exercises for 3,034 students. Spectators who caught sight of her, dressed in a black and lavender robe, shouted, "Yo, Hillary!" and "You go, girl!"
Mrs. Clinton turned and smiled.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Charles E. Schumer with Hillary Rodham Clinton yesterday at Tavern on the Green in Central Park. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); BUDGETS (71%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



54 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: DIPLOMACY;
MOSCOW AND WEST MAKING HEADWAY ON A KOSOVO PLAN

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, June 2

 BODY:
Russia and the West narrowed their differences today over the measures required to end the war in Kosovo, limiting the room for President Slobodan Milosevic to maneuver and increasing the pressure on him to reach a settlement.
"We have found a common approach," said Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, the Russian envoy to the Balkans, after a marathon negotiating session in Bonn with American and European officials that went on through much of Tuesday night and ended only this afternoon. 
 A senior Administration official said "common approach" was a bit of an overstatement. Nevertheless, the official added, the unity of purpose was sufficient to justify a visit to Belgrade late today by Mr. Chernomyrdin and the Finnish President, Martti Ahtisaari, who is representing the European Union.
The envoys presented a draft accord to President Milosevic, who said he would continue talks with them early Thursday.
European diplomats said Russia had agreed for the first time that all Yugoslav forces -- army, police and paramilitary -- should withdraw from Kosovo and that the withdrawal be substantially under way before any pause in NATO bombing. Perhaps a few hundred soldiers could return, but only after the deployment of a 50,000-strong international resettlement force, which would include 7,000 Americans.
But the West and Russia remain apart on the composition and the command structure of the force: Russia is holding out for United Nations control; the West insists on NATO command.
Michael Steiner, the top diplomatic adviser to Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, said diplomacy would now follow two main tracks: an attempt to secure Mr. Milosevic's agreement to the terms hammered out between the West and Russia, and an effort to pass a United Nations Security Council resolution that reflects the agreement.
The plan that was being presented to Mr. Milosevic "preserved and elaborated" NATO's demands in their entirety, the State Department spokesman, James P. Rubin said.
But it remained far from clear that Mr. Milosevic would agree to the newest terms, which appear closer to NATO demands than to the vague statement by the Group of Seven industrial nations and Russia on May 6, which Yugoslavia has formally accepted. That gap will be the subject of President Ahtisaari's discussions in Belgrade.
The Bonn talks between Russia and the West were unexpectedly difficult and marked by brinkmanship: Russia threatened to withdraw, and the departure of Mr. Chernomyrdin and Mr. Ahtisaari was twice delayed at the last moment.
European diplomats said Mr. Chernomyrdin argued long and hard for a pause in the 71-day-old bombing as a gesture of good will, but was finally swayed by arguments that such a break would not make Mr. Milosevic more pliant or more ready to negotiate in good faith.
In the end, Russia agreed that the Yugoslav leader must start a substantial and verifiable withdrawal before a halt in the bombardment.
The plan specifies that Mr. Milosevic has to withdraw all his forces from Kosovo, Mr. Rubin said. "We made reasonable progress, particularly on the scope and the timing of the Serbian withdrawal," one United States official said. "The Russians have understood that for us, 'all' means 'all.' "
The plan also specifies how many days Mr. Milosevic has to show that he is complying with a "rapid and precise" timetable of withdrawal for his 40,000 troops for the allies to stop the air strikes, a senior Administration official said. The official declined to specify the number of days.
Once the Serbian withdrawal has begun in a "verifiable and demonstrable way," NATO would be willing to stop the bombing but reserved the right to resume, the official said.
Mr. Chernomyrdin summarized the talks by saying, "I think at the moment there is a realistic chance that the war will end."
Strobe Talbott, the Deputy Secretary of State, who has been shuttling between Washington, Moscow, Helsinki, Bonn and Brussels, said, "Increasingly the international community is speaking with one voice."
In effect, Russia and the West have shifted their area of agreement from broad principles that were vague on crucial issues to the outline of a concrete program to which Mr. Milosevic must now respond.
The principles, adopted on May 6, did not stipulate that all Yugoslav forces must withdraw, and alluded only to the deployment of "effective international civil and security presences" in Kosovo, rather than the NATO-led force on which the Clinton Administration has insisted.
It was on the question of the makeup of this force that differences with Russia proved most difficult to overcome, American officials said. "The Russians are still pushing for a United Nations-controlled operation, but after Bosnia we learned the lessons of watered-down command structures," one said.
In Bosnia between 1992 and 1995, a "dual key" system under which both NATO commanders and senior United Nations officials had to approve any military action proved unwieldy, ineffective and sometimes disastrous.
Before leaving for Belgrade, Mr. Chernomyrdin said that under a compromise reached in Bonn: "NATO will command NATO forces, Russia the Russian forces. Relations between the two contingents will be governed by separate agreements."
But Mr. Steiner, the German diplomat, said this statement should not be taken at face value. "Obviously, each politician has his constituency that has to be satisfied," he said.
Joschka Fischer, the German Foreign Minister, said, "We have some good news, but I do not want to overrate it. We have to remain skeptical until the last moment."
In fact, European and American officials said, a command structure similar to the one now governing relations between Russian and Western forces in Bosnia is being considered. This system involves a NATO chain of command, but it gives the Russian contingent there considerable latitude.
Officials said a Russian proposal that it take charge of a zone in the northern part of Kosovo while NATO countries control the southern part of the province had been rejected because it might appear to lay the basis for partition.
Mr. Steiner said it was now crucial to involve the United Nations.
"If what we have now is the basis for a solution, then we must get it legalized in the Security Council as quickly as possible," he said. "That in turn will give us the political leverage we need."
If a Security Council resolution could be passed calling for a complete Serbian withdrawal and the deployment of a large international force with a central NATO presence, as well as the return of all ethnic Albanian refugees, then the pressure on Mr. Milosevic would clearly increase further.
Western officials said that with such a resolution, a full and formal agreement from Belgrade might not be necessary. "All we would need is the absence of a rejection from Mr. Milosevic, and the withdrawal of his troops from Kosovo," one said.
But it remains unclear whether China, whose relations with the United States were soured when NATO bombers hit its Belgrade embassy last month, would agree to such a resolution and whether wording could be found that would circumvent any remaining Russian objections about the nature of the international force that would enter Kosovo.
Russia and the West have come a long way since the first days of the NATO bombing, when anger in Moscow was at fever pitch and rumors were circulating that Russian missiles had been redirected at European targets.
However the diplomacy now progresses, immense difficulties remain. Not the least is how to convince the divided Albanian leadership and the guerrillas of the Kosovo Liberation Army that any accord with Mr. Milosevic is even remotely credible. The Serbs must also be convinced that there is a credible way to disarm the rebel army.
In addition, the West would apparently be committing itself to a vast deployment of forces and huge investment of resources in a state headed by a man -- President Milosevic -- who was indicted last week by the international criminal tribunal in The Hague on charges of war crimes.
President Ahtisaari is expected to report on the results of his talks with Mr. Milosevic at a summit meeting of European leaders in Cologne on Thursday and Friday.
President Jacques Chirac of France said today of the rapprochement between Russia and the West that it "undoubtedly opens the door to a significant chance for a political settlement."
"In this situation," he added, "I cannot really see how the Serbian authorities could refuse the solution demanded of them by the whole international community."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A European Union envoy, the Finnish President Martti Ahtisaari, left, and Viktor Chernomyrdin, Moscow's mediator, in Belgrade yesterday. Russia seems ready to demand a withdrawal of Yugoslavs from Kosovo. (Agence France-Presse); Slobodan Milosevic during his talks with the envoys yesterday. (Reuters)(pg. A14)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); EUROPE (95%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); GERMANY (93%); FINLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); FINLAND; SERBIA (97%); EUROPE (95%); KOSOVO (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); GERMANY (93%); FINLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); ARMIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CHERNOMYRDIN, VIKTOR S; AHTISAARI, MARTTI (PRES) GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



55 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Frees Journalist It Held for Sedition

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, June 2

 BODY:
The Pakistani Government dropped sedition charges today against a journalist who has been highly critical of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, and it released him after almost a month of detention and interrogation.
In recent weeks, the United States, the European Union, human rights groups and the World Bank had all strongly protested the Government's detention of the journalist, Najam Sethi, as the most outrageous example of its attempt to repress the country's press. Mr. Sethi is editor of The Friday Times, an English-language weekly in Lahore. 
 Pakistani officials had said they suspected Mr. Sethi of working for an Indian intelligence agency after he gave a speech in New Delhi on April 30 that painted a bleak picture of Pakistan's political and economic condition. Pakistan's chief envoy to India had described the speech as "contemptible treachery."
But Mr. Sethi said today after his release that he believed he was detained, not because of the speech, but because the Prime Minister was angered by Mr. Sethi's editorials, as well as Mr. Sethi's decision to give an interview to the BBC, which was investigating corruption charges against Mr. Sharif and his family.
Days before his arrest, Mr. Sethi said, a senior official close to Mr. Sharif telephoned him and accused him of conspiring with the BBC to overthrow the Government.
On May 8, the Punjab state police dragged Mr. Sethi from his bedroom in the middle of the night, beat him, blindfolded him and turned him over to the army intelligence service.
"They interrogated me about everything I've done for the last 30 years," Mr. Sethi said. "But they did not mistreat me. And at the end of the day, I believe that they informed the Prime Minister that no charges of treason could be leveled against me."
Three days ago, he said, the Government moved him from the custody of the army's intelligence service to police detention. And rather than pressing charges against him in military courts, a sedition case was filed against him in a special anti-terrorism court, charging Mr. Sethi with opposing the creation of the state of Pakistan and anti-national activities.
But today, the Government withdrew those charges during a Supreme Court hearing on a bail application for Mr. Sethi. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); 

STATE: PUNJAB, INDIA (50%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); PUNJAB, INDIA (50%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SEDITION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; FREEDOM OF THE PRESS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); TREASON (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ARRESTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ARMIES (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); MILITARY COURTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); BAIL (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (54%); TERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA W; SETHI, NAJAM; SHARIF, NAWAZ (PRIME MIN) NAWAZ SHARIF (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



56 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16
 
Russia and the West Make Progress on Kosovo
Russia and the West narrowed their differences over how to end the war in Kosovo, increasing the pressure on President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia to reach a settlement. A1 

Russian and NATO envoys delivered an incomplete draft of a peace proposal to Mr. Milosevic, who said he and his Government would study it and meet with the envoys today. A14
 
President Clinton urged Mr. Milosevic to "cut his losses" by bending to allied demands or face Serbia's military and economic devastation. A14
 
Officials said the Pentagon's senior commanders remained opposed to mounting a ground invasion. A16
 
The International Court of Justice in The Hague refused to order NATO countries to halt the bombing. A16
 
Kosovo Update A15
 
Election in South Africa
South Africans went to the polls in the second post-apartheid election. The African National Congress, on the strength of black support, is expected to win. A3
 
Rebel Group Backs Its Leader
The Kurdistan Workers Party said it would support an offer made by its leader, Abdullah Ocalan, to end the guerrilla group's war against the Turkish Army. Mr. Ocalan made his offer during his trial on treason charges. He faces the death penalty if convicted. A7
 
Japan May Allow the Pill
Japan's top medical advisory council reversed itself and recommended allowing the birth control pill to be sold. Japan is the only industrialized country that bans the pill. A13
 
Statement on Tiananmen
The Communist Party's flagship newspaper made a rare reference to the 1989 democracy movement in Tiananmen Square, calling the crushing of those demonstrations essential to the protection of national stability and economic progress. A12
 
North Korean Official to Beijing
North Korea's No. 2 political leader, Kim Yong Nam, arrived in Beijing today for the first high-level meeting between the two Communist allies in eight years. A12
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A18-25
 
9 Die in Airline Crash On Rainy Arkansas Runway
An American Airlines jet carrying 145 people slid off the runway while landing in a thunderstorm in Little Rock, Ark. Nine people, including the pilot, were killed and more than 80 people were injured. A18
 
Teamsters Strike Is Averted
The teamsters' union and companies that haul new cars to dealers reached a tentative contract in talks that were the first major test for the new president of the union, James P. Hoffa. A18
 
More Money for Census Sought
The Census Bureau asked Congress for an additional $1.7 billion to conduct the 2000 Census, citing as the reason a Supreme Court decision sharply restricting the bureau's ability to use statistical sampling. A20
 
Medicare Increase Urged
Gail R. Wilensky, an influential Republican who is the chairwoman of a Medicare advisory panel, said Congress should raise payments for certain nursing home and hospital services because budget cuts appeared to be harming the quality of care for some patients. A22
 
Advance in Diabetes Research
Scientists said they had cured diabetes in monkeys by giving them transplants of insulin-producing cells along with an experimental drug that prevented rejection of the donor tissue. A23
 
Dealing With Cancer Fears
Women with breast cancer who seek alternative therapies like herbs or acupuncture in addition to standard treatment may be unusually worried and depressed and need extra help to cope, a study said. A22
 
Panda's Health Failing
Hsing-Hsing, the surviving giant panda of two that China gave the United States in 1972, is suffering from kidney failure. Officials at the National Zoo said they could not predict how long he would live. A20
 
A $5 Billion Gift
The Microsoft chairman, William H. Gates and his wife, Melinda French Gates, are giving $5 billion to the William H. Gates Foundation, which focuses on child and maternal health in developing countries, and education and assistance in the Northwest. A20
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Closing Arguments Begin In Police Brutality Case
A Federal prosecutor said the four officers still on trial in the Abner Louima case were willing accomplices of former Officer Justin A Volpe, who pleaded guilty last week. Two defense lawyers suggested that the only guilty party, Mr. Volpe, had already been convicted. A1
 
'Airtrain' Plan Advances
Two City Council committees approved a $1.5 billion rail link for Kennedy Airport, clearing the way for a final vote by the full Council. B1
 
The Costs of Deterring Smoking
Governor Pataki said he was not averse to calls from legislative leaders to raise state spending on anti-tobacco advertising and education. B1
 
Motive for Drive-By Killing
The drive-by shooting that killed a 3-year-old girl in the Bronx on Memorial Day apparently resulted from a quarrel over rent, the police said. B4
 
Effort to Block Tax Repeal
Mayor Giuliani sued the state in an effort to reverse the partial repeal of the tax on commuters. B3
 
Hillary Clinton on City Schools
Hillary Rodham Clinton said New York City public schools had been undermined by political infighting and underfinancing by City Hall. B5
 
OBITUARIES B11
 
CIRCUITS G1-12
 
ARTS E1-10
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Injury Sidelines Knicks Star
Patrick Ewing has a torn Achilles' tendon and will miss the rest of the N.B.A. playoffs. A1
 
Field Set for Belmont Stakes
Charismatic, seeking the Triple Crown, drew the No. 4 post position and was made the 2-1 favorite in the Belmont Stakes on Saturday. D1
 
Disclosures on Atlanta Bid
Documents show that bidders for the 1996 Summer Games in Atlanta gave gifts, favors and payments. D2
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
Texaco-Chevron Merger Is Off
Texaco said its board had rejected a merger proposal from Chevron and had ended all takeover talks. C1
 
Bookseller Forgoes Acquisition
Barnes & Noble gave up plans to acquire the wholesaler Ingram Book in a $600 million deal opposed by other booksellers and the F.T.C. staff. C1
 
No Verdict in Patent Trial
A Federal jury deadlocked in a suit contending that Genentech infringed a University of California patent in developing human growth hormone. The university wants a new trial. C10
 
Auto Sales Continue Rise
Car and truck sales in May rose 5.3 percent last month, compared with results in the period a year earlier, propelling the industry toward its best year ever, despite weak results from General Motors. C20
 
Stocks Finish Mixed
The Dow ended 18.37 points lower, at 10,577.89; the S.& P. 500 rose 0.55 point, to 1,294.81, and the Nasdaq closed up 20.38 points, at 2,432.41. Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, said nothing bearing on interest rates in an appearance in Boston. C8
 
Business Digest C1
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-16
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Kosovo crossroad; Governor Bush finally emerges; the challenge for South Africa; Mr. Silver's silence on reform.
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
Bridge E4
TV Listings E10
Crossword E6
Weather D4
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); CHINA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); CHINA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); TURKEY (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MEDICARE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); AIRLINES (85%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (85%); CENSUS (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); STRIKES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); TREASON (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); CONTRACEPTION (65%); APPEALS (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



57 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: China Opens Another Door To an Isolated North Korea

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Thursday, June 3

 BODY:
North Korea's No. 2 political leader arrived in Beijing today for the first high-level meeting between the two Communist allies in eight years, talks that will be closely watched by the United States and China's Asian neighbors.
The official, Kim Yong Nam, president of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly, brought a large entourage of political, trade and military officials and may also visit Shanghai and Hangzhou. 
 Months in the planning, the talks are intended to demonstrate that the alliance between North Korea and China remains strong. They come just as the United States has made its own offers of cooperation in an effort to moderate North Korea's military and economic policies.
During the Korean War, in the early 1950's, China sent troops to help North Korea beat back the advancing Americans, and China has remained determined ever since to preserve the Communist Government there as a buffer on the Korean peninsula.
But the alliance has been a tortured one. Even though Kim Il Sung, the North Korean leader at the time, visited Beijing in 1991, the relationship was deeply strained the next year when China bowed to practical reality and recognized North Korea's archenemy, South Korea, with its dynamic economy.
More recently, China has been concerned by North Korea's disastrous economic policies, which have forced China to provide large amounts of aid and could cause a social collapse, and by the North's missile tests, which have undermined China's regional security goals.
"North Korea is a troublesome ally," said Bates Gill, a military expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington. "But the Chinese see propping up the regime is their only real option."
In the talks this week, North Korea is expected to ask for renewed commitments of the food, energy and other aid that has helped the Government of Kim Jong Il (the son of Kim Il Sung) survive a famine and severe slowdown of its industries. The country's rigidly controlled, closed economy has never recovered from the demise of the Soviet Union and the subsidies and barter arrangements that Moscow provided.
China, in turn, is expected to press its secretive ally to moderate its behavior in areas that have threatened China's own strategic interests, appealing to North Korea not to repeat its tests of a new long-range missile. The surprise launching over Japan last fall set off alarm bells throughout East Asia and strengthened Japan's support for developing antimissile defenses with the United States -- a development seen by China as a threat.
China is also expected to urge North Korea not to develop nuclear weapons, according to a Western diplomat, who said China wants to avoid any increase of tension on the Korean peninsula.
China has long maintained scientific and technical exchanges with North Korea, but many Western experts say there is no evidence that advanced weapon technology have been handed over directly in recent years. North Korean sales of missiles to countries like Iran have been a major concern of the United States, and the extent of Chinese influence over such sales is disputed.
Chinese officials say they will urge North Korea to begin opening up its economy so it can resume development and reduce its desperate need for outside aid. But China is unlikely to pose any ultimatums that could lead to a serious break in relations or endanger the Communist Government, diplomats say.
China publicly endorses cooperation between the two Koreas and the "four party" international talks -- including Japan and the United States -- on a long-term peace settlement. At the same time, China wants to avoid a total collapse in North Korea, or other scenarios in which South Korea essentially absorbs the North: that would bring an American ally, and possibly American troops, right to China's border.
"China doesn't want U.S. forces north of the 38th parallel," said Douglas Paal, an Asia expert in Washington who served on the National Security Council during the Reagan and Bush Administrations.
Last week a former United States Secretary of Defense, William J. Perry, visited North Korea, offering economic and diplomatic benefits if the country would agree to abandon its missile and nuclear-weapons programs. There has been no official reply.
The two Koreas have also discussed resuming talks on the reunification of families and economic aid, officials in South Korea say.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (90%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; CHINA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (90%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (73%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FAMINE (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (64%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; KIM YONG NAM KIM JONG IL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



58 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Publicis Acquires Stake in Burrell

BYLINE: By Patricia Winters Lauro 

 BODY:
In another effort by a mainstream agency company to expand in the growing realm of advertising to minorities, Publicis S.A. in Paris said yesterday that it had acquired a 49 percent interest in Burrell Communications Group in Chicago, which specializes in campaigns aimed at black consumers. Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed. 
 Burrell, described as the largest agency of its kind in America, has 133 employees working on accounts with billings estimated at $166 million for advertisers like Coca-Cola, McDonald's, Procter & Gamble and Sears. The alliance with Publicis, the world's No. 13 agency company, with estimated billings of $6.3 billion, will enable Burrell to work with Publicis agencies such as Publicis & Hal Riney and Publicis Technology. Burrell will continue to be led by Thomas J. Burrell, chairman and chief executive.
"The future of advertising in the United States will be determined in part by its ability to reach the nation's economically powerful and culturally influential minority communities," said Maurice Levy, chairman and chief executive of Publicis.
Mr. Burrell said that "the additional resources of Publicis" would enable Burrell to help "our clients on a global scale."
The deal is the first such investment by Publicis; other big agency companies that have become active in the field include Omnicom Group, True North Communications and Young & Rubicam Inc.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (92%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); IPG (NYSE) (90%); KO (NYSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BURRELL COMMUNICATIONS GROUP; PUBLICIS SA PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (92%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); PUBLICIS & HAL RINEY (91%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (90%); YOUNG & RUBICAM INC (67%); BURRELL COMMUNICATIONS GROUP INC (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BURRELL COMMUNICATIONS GROUP; PUBLICIS SA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (78%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: LAURO, PATRICIA WINTERS MAURICE LEVY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



59 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Elderly Vote for Morality

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Shift by Older Voters to G.O.P. Is Democrats' Challenge in 2000" (front page, May 31): You report that older Americans are in better financial shape than they were 30 years ago. 
 The reason is Social Security. Without it, about half of the elderly would be poor. Two-thirds rely on Social Security for half or more of their income. Many older Americans who consider themselves middle class would be poverty stricken without Social Security. Enactment of schemes to privatize the program would push many back into poverty by offering a gambling trip to Las Vegas instead of a secure, inflation-adjusted lifetime income.
 
HELEN L. GINSBURG
Flushing, Queens, May 31, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: G O P (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: G O P (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); PRIVATIZATION AGING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (87%); PRIVATIZATION (87%); POOR POPULATION (87%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: GINSBURG, HELEN L MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



60 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ANCELL, NATHAN S.

 BODY:
ANCELL-Nathan S. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are saddened by the loss of Nathan S. Ancell, a beloved leader and cherished friend who was deeply committed to the Jewish people. A compassionate humanitarian, he earned enormous admiration for his extraordinary generosity and wisdom. Through his leadership and support of UJA-Federation, he helped alleviate human suffering and enhance Jewish educational and cultural programs. An honorary officer of UJA-Federation, he formerly served as a member and honorary co-chair of our Board of Directors. He was also an honorary board chair of the Mid-Westchester YM-YWHA and a past associate board chair of the Associated YM-YWHA's of Greater New York, both beneficiary agencies of UJA-Federation. We extend our sincerest condolences to his daughters, Susan Darley and Penny Randall, and his grandchildren, Leigh, David, Edin, Jackie, Lea, and Piper. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
ANCELL-Nathan S. The Brandeis University community mourns the death of a cherished friend. A member of our Board of Trustees for twenty-five years, Mr. Ancell truly left his mark on Brandeis. In recognition of his outstanding leadership, the University awarded him an honorary doctorate in 1990 and the Distinguished Community Service Award in 1988. His innovative mind and entrepreneurial spirit will be sorely missed. Together with his late wife, Enid, and his late sister and brother-inlaw, Florence and Theodore Baumritter, Mr. Ancell supported numerous Brandeis programs. A chair in physics, buttressed by a fellowship in physics, stands as a testament to the family's generosity and commitment to Brandeis. We extend our deepest sympathies to his daughters, Susan Darley and Penny Randall; to his six grandchildren; and to his entire family. Jehuda Reinharz, President Steve Grossman, Chairman Board of Trustees
ANCELL-Nathan. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our good friend and honorary member of our Board of Overseers. His deep commitment to improving the human condition is exemplified by his establishment of the Florence and Theodore Baumritter Chair in Medicine at Einstein in honor of his sister and brother-in-law. He was a Benefactor of our institution and recipient of an honorary degree from the University. To his children, Susan Darley and Penny Randall, and to the entire family, we offer our heartfelt sympathy. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
ANCELL-Nathan S. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of a founder and former chairman of its Home Furnishings campaign. Deeply devoted to the economic growth and development of the State of Israel, he was a longtime leader of our Corporate & Professional Division and a distinguished member of the Israel Bonds President's Club. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire family. Gideon Patt, President & CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg National Campaign Chairman Richard L. Hirsch National Chairman Commerce & Industry Division Howard Hirsch, Chairman Greater New York Campaign Peter S. Kalikow Greater New York Chairman Corporate & Professional Division
ANCELL-Nathan S. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Nathan Ancell, a long time and generous supporter of the League. We extend our deepest condolences to his daughters, Susan and Penny, and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director Arnold Forster, General Counsel
ANCELL-Nathan S. The Board of Directors and staff of the YM & YWHA of Mid-Westchester mourn the loss of Nathan Ancell, Honorary Chairman of the Board. Both he and his wife Enid, past Y President, were generous benefactors and friends for over 30 years. Our condolences to his family. His good counsel will be sorely missed
ANCELL-Nathan. The University of Haifa family mourns the loss of friend and supporter Nathan Ancell. May the Ancell family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and of Jerusalem. Lord Anthony Jacobs, Chairman Board of Governors Prof. Yehuda Hayuth, President 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BRANDEIS UNIVERSITY (69%); CHAIRMAN BOARD (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRANDEIS UNIVERSITY (69%); CHAIRMAN BOARD (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (88%); CHILDREN (88%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (50%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%); 

PERSON: ANCELL, NATHAN S. JAMES S TISCH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



61 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 3, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Woman and Boy Die in East Orange Fire

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN 

 BODY:
A woman and a 4-year-old boy trapped in a top-floor apartment in a burning building in East Orange, N.J., died yesterday minutes after being rescued, officials said.
A young girl and three firefighters were also injured, and 63 families were left homeless by the ferocious blaze, which destroyed the roof and top two floors in the south half of the Citadel, a broad prewar building along the once-grand main street of a city that has been struggling for decades. 
 The fire in the five-story, yellow-brick Citadel, at 176 South Harrison Street, started on the top floor just before 5 P.M. and was quickly accelerated by afternoon breezes, said Darryl Jeffries, the city's public information officer.
Within minutes the fire had burst through the building's roof, sending flames shooting into the air, and soon the fourth floor was also engulfed, Mr. Jeffries said. As firefighters scrambled to set up their equipment, a woman appeared at a top-floor window holding a child, residents said, and banged on the glass.
As water from the ground, from hoses on ladders and from firefighters on the roof of the intact half of the building cascaded all around them, firefighters ran a ladder up to the top-floor apartment, broke the windows and pulled the woman and three children, aged 4 years, 3 years and 18 months, out of the building, Mr. Jeffries said.
The 4-year-old child, James Ingram, died of smoke inhalation at University Hospital in Newark. The woman, who was 53, died of smoke inhalation at East Orange General Hospital.
A young girl was in stable condition at Orange Memorial Hospital, while a 51-year-old firefighter from Cranford was recovering at University Hospital from a head injury. Two East Orange firefighters were treated at East Orange General Hospital for smoke inhalation.
The cause of the blaze, which was declared under control at 7:30 P.M., is still under investigation. Mr. Jeffries said he believed that the building was in compliance with all fire codes, including sprinkler requirements. He said a firewall had helped confine the damage to the south half of the two-flanked building.
Of the 63 displaced families, 43 had no place to stay and were spending the night at a shelter the Red Cross set up in a middle-school cafeteria, said Walter Gramm, the chief executive of the Metropolitan New Jersey chapter of the American Red Cross. He said the families would be allowed to stay for up to a week, after which the Red Cross would try to get them more permanent quarters. He said it appeared that parts of the building would not be ready for habitation for some time.
The fire in East Orange, a suburb of Newark with about 73,000 inhabitants, comes as the city was in the midst of efforts to rehabilitate Harrison Street, a street that was once a boulevard of millionaires but that has been in decline since the 1960's.
"These apartments had butlers and maids, doormen," Mr. Jeffries said. "It was quite ritzy for its time. It's not quite that now," he said, describing today's Harrison Street as "economically and ethnically diverse" but adding that "the character of the buildings is still there."
Referring to the fire, he said, "I think the city is resilient enough to rebound."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 4, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a fatal apartment fire in East Orange, N.J., used an incorrect given name in some copies for a 4-year-old boy who died. He was Jonathan Ingram, not James.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Residents of the Citadel Apartments in East Orange watched the progress of a fire in one of the buildings yesterday. A 4-year-old boy and a 53-year-old woman died of smoke inhalation at local hospitals last evening. (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CITADEL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST ORANGE (NJ) ; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; RESCUES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FIRES (89%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); HEAD INJURIES (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (57%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY; INGRAM, JAMES DARRYL JEFFRIES (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1999



62 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Robert Sobel, 68, a Historian of Business, Dies

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
Robert Sobel, a prolific historian of American business life whose topics ranged from the economic philosophy of President Calvin Coolidge to the influence of the junk-bond financier Michael Milken, died on Wednesday at his home in Long Beach, N.Y. He was 68.
The cause of death was brain cancer, said a spokeswoman for Hofstra University, where Professor Sobel taught for 43 years. 
 Professor Sobel's first book, "The Origins of Intervention," was published in 1961, when he was a 30-year-old history instructor at Hofstra, in Hempstead, N.Y. His latest, completed as he underwent unsuccessful cancer treatments, is a study of business blunders called "When Giants Stumble," just released by Prentice-Hall Press.
Besides teaching, Professor Sobel was the author, co-author or editor of more than 50 books and hundreds of articles and corporate profiles.
Most of his books were written for a general audience, but he never bristled when some scholarly writers dismissed him as a "popularizer," said his colleague and friend George David Smith, a professor of economic history at New York University. "Quite the contrary -- he saw that as his mission in life."
Still, that did not stop Professor Sobel from taking a gentle revenge on his ivory-tower critics in 1973, with publication of "For Want of a Nail," his mock textbook recounting the history of North America had General Burgoyne won the Revolutionary War battle at Saratoga. His spoof included pompous footnotes about petty disputes among imaginary scholars and a wholly invented bibliography of ludicrously boring and arcane references -- as well as an appendix featuring a list of the "leaders of the United States of Mexico," starting with its first president, Andrew Jackson.
But his dominant passion was Wall Street, a metaphysical neighborhood that had fascinated him since childhood. "It is as though you are walking through a historical theme park, with this engaging man at your side pointing out the sights," said Andrew Tobias, the author and investment guide, in a review in The New York Times of "The Last Bull Market: Wall Street in the 1960's" (W. W. Norton, 1978).
Professor Sobel wrote two studies of the New York Stock Exchange and two books on the American Stock Exchange. Friends said he considered "The Life and Times of Dillon Read" (Dutton, 1991) to be his finest book, but he produced other notable profiles of Wall Street characters, including "Dangerous Dreamers: The Financial Innovators from Charles Merrill to Michael Milken" (John Wiley & Sons, 1993).
To that he added a history of financial panics, a history of speculative bubbles and an account of the frenzied market of the 1920's.
Richard Sylla, an economic historian at New York University, acknowledged that Mr. Sobel's "pot-boiler style" sometimes drew criticism in academic circles. "But specialized scholars could learn a lot from him -- and you are talking to one who did," Professor Sylla added.
While in graduate school, friends say, Mr. Sobel found that he loved to write. "He was a compulsive writer," Professor Smith said. "He was miserable when he was not writing."
Indeed, in an academic realm where publishing is often considered the grim alternative to perishing, Mr. Sobel's published works were only one tributary of the broad river of words he produced. Unlike most academic writers, he was happy to ghost-write business books bearing other people's names. And he collaborated on a host of biographical projects that never reached a public audience, including the privately published memoirs of Joseph Cullman, the legendary leader of Philip Morris, and an authorized biography of Louis E. Wolfson, an early pioneer in corporate takeovers who ran afoul of Federal securities regulators.
Professor Sobel was clearly less enthralled by the corporate world, but that only slightly affected his output. His corporate histories included studies of RCA, ITT, the Penn Central Railroad, the automotive industry, the tobacco industry, the Trammell Crow construction empire and two books on I.B.M.
Rounding out his bookcase were economic assessments of Herbert Hoover and Calvin Coolidge and studies of the American Revolution, the French Revolution and the Industrial Revolution.
Robert Sobel was born and raised in the Bronx, the son of a commercial draftsman who drew promotional posters for the Loews chain of movie theaters. He was educated at James Monroe High School and the City College of New York, and earned his master's degree in history at New York University in 1952 before enlisting in the armed forces during the Korean War.
He later told family members that he had hoped to be a military intelligence officer but was turned down because of unfounded suspicions that he was related to Morton Sobell, another City College graduate who was a figure in the spy case involving Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. Instead, he served as an administrative clerk in the Army.
He returned to New York University after his discharge in 1955. He worked as a history instructor there and, starting in 1956, at Hofstra while working on his doctorate at N.Y.U. After his degree was conferred in 1957, he joined the faculty at Hofstra, where he remained for four decades.
In 1990, he was awarded the university's Lawrence Stetson Distinguished Professorship in business history, which he held until his retirement in May 1998. A memorial service will be held for Professor Sobel in September at the Hofstra campus, where flags have been lowered to half-staff in his honor.
For all the years he spent in the classroom, friends say that teaching history did not satisfy him as much as writing history -- or, indeed, writing anything.
Besides producing books, articles, book reviews, and scripts for television and audiotapes, he was a weekly columnist for Newsday from 1972 to 1988. At the time of his death he was a contributing editor to Barron's magazine. He also worked as a consultant for the Winthrop Group in Cambridge, Mass. His family says that two completed book manuscripts are scheduled for publication posthumously.
Professor Sobel is survived by his wife, Carole Ritter Sobel of Long Beach; his mother, Blanche Sobel of Riverdale; a brother, Alan Sobel of Brooklyn; two children, Barbara Sobel of Queens and David Sobel of Alexandria, La., and two grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Sobel (Weybright and Talley, 1973)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (50%); JWA (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONG BEACH, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (50%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONG BEACH, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); HISTORY (90%); WRITERS (90%); BONDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ONCOLOGY (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); BRAIN CANCER (72%); CANCER (72%); 

PERSON: SOBEL, ROBERT (PROF); HENRIQUES, DIANA B MICHAEL MILKEN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



63 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Gauges Mixed in Anticipation of Jobs Data

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
Stock prices meandered to a mixed finish yesterday as traders and investors awaited today's release of the Government's monthly report on the job market, which will provide the first broad look at the economy's performance in May.
An overly robust reading, analysts think, will make it more likely that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates -- a development already anticipated in the futures markets -- at its two-day policy meeting later this month. 
 "People were just trying to jockey for position before tomorrow's big report," said Donald M. Selkin, chief market strategist at Joseph Gunnar & Company. "The key thing to watch is the average hourly earnings."
Word of a possible peace agreement in Yugoslavia made little impression yesterday because weeks of bombing were regarded as having played little role in the spring retreat from record highs. European markets, however, were thought likely to benefit from an end to hostilities.
Once again the Nasdaq composite index made the widest swing, but in contrast to its performance on Wednesday, it weakened in the afternoon and finished with a loss of 29.09 points, or 1.2 percent, to 2,403.32, just above its low of the day. Internet stocks were among the chief casualties, with conditions so soft that at least two initial public offerings were postponed.
The Dow Jones industrial average, on the other hand, surged in the final 15 minutes of trading and ended with a gain of 85.80 points, or eight-tenths of a percent, to 10,663.69. American Express, the biggest contributor to the advance of the blue-chip index, gained 3 3/16 , to 121 5/8.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, meanwhile, scarcely budged, ending with a gain of 4.73 points, or four-tenths of a percent, to 1,299.54, as 267 of its components rose and 212 declined.
Strong reports of May sales lifted retail stocks, with Dollar General up 3 1/16 , to 30, Wal-Mart Stores up 1 1/8, to 45 1/2, and Best Buy, whose president forecast better-than-expected first-quarter earnings, up 6 1/8, to 54.
Drug stocks, which have been out of favor recently, posted good gains despite a report that President Clinton is close to a decision involving Medicare overhaul that would allow the elderly to pay less for prescription drugs. Pfizer climbed 2 1/4, to 108 1/2, while Merck, Eli Lilly and Warner-Lambert each gained more than a point.
Shares of oil-service companies were mostly higher, with Schlumberger, which was added to the recommended list at Goldman, Sachs, rising 7/16 , to 60 7/16 , after trading as high as 62 3/16 .
Brokerage stocks continued to reel from Merrill Lynch's decision to offer low-cost on-line trading. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette slumped 2 1/4, to 57 1/8, and Knight/Trimark fell 2 5/8, to 50 5/8, but Paine Webber, which replaced Bankers Trust in the S.& P. 500 after the close, advanced 15/16 , to 42 3/4.
Zany Brainy, a retailer of toys, games and books, made its market debut with the sale of 6.1 million shares at 10. The stock traded as high as 13 1/8 before closing at 11 7/16 .
Internet stocks resumed their slide. Yahoo fell 7 1/8, to 135 3/8; At Home slumped 9 3/16 , to 105 1/4; Star Media dropped 8 11/16 , to 40 1/4; Ebay slid 7 1/2, to 161 5/16 ; Priceline.com fell 82 5/32 , to 84 1/8, and Amazon.com declined 7 1/16 , to 105 1/16 .
Volume was a moderate 733.3 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, up from Wednesday's 730.5 million, with advancing issues surpassing declining ones by 1,624 to 1,325. There were 48 new highs over the last 12 months and 45 new lows.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Fall
 By Bloomberg News
Bond yields hovered near one-year highs yesterday as traders worried that a Government jobs report today will increase the chances that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates.
The price of the benchmark 30-year bond fell 14/32 , to 90 8/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.95 percent, from 5.92 percent on Wednesday.
Some traders are convinced the employment report, a key barometer of the economy's strength, will persuade the Fed to raise rates.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a 12-day cash-management bill:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Price . . . 99.843
Investment rate . . . 4.80%
High rate . . . 4.70%
Low rate . . . 4.62%
Median rate . . . 4.68%
Total applied for . . . $64,869,750
Accepted . . . $20,006,850
Noncompetitive . . . 1,750
 
The 12-day cash-management bills mature June 15.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since May 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (54%); WMT (NYSE) (52%); DG (NYSE) (52%); PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%); LLY (SWX) (51%); LLY (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (52%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (52%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (52%); PFIZER INC (51%); ELI LILLY & CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FUTURES (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MEDICARE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (69%); BOMBINGS (68%); INTERNET & WWW (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



64 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: MAN IN THE NEWS;
An Intellectual Guerrilla: Thabo Mbeki

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: CAPE TOWN, June 3

 BODY:
As Winnie Madikizela-Mandela shouted recently to a cheering crowd in a black township: "I'm sick and tired of white-controlled media who say they don't know Thabo Mbeki. Who cares?"
President Nelson Mandela's ex-wife, whose speeches usually have vaguely threatening undertones, was unsubtly pointing out that when Mr. Mbeki takes over as President on June 16, he will govern with a huge mandate whether whites or anyone else know him or not. 
 Not that this means they need be afraid. South Africa's second post-apartheid President is someone who has no military background, is an able administrator and repeatedly pledges himself to democracy and to fighting corruption even in his own party.
His Government, Mr. Mbeki said in his victory speech today, will "approach the exercise of power without any arrogance, with humility."
If Nelson Mandela is the George Washington of this new democracy, the kind of giant among men who turns down offers to be king, then Mr. Mbeki is its John Adams. Like Adams, he is small, sharply intelligent, visionary, reflective, sometimes tart-tongued, and an adept back-room fighter.
He is also, on any occasion, the man most likely to turn up too formally dressed.
Playing on their difference in raiment, the dapper Mr. Mbeki, 56, has mused publicly on his resentment of people who constantly ask whether he can fill Mr. Mandela's shoes.
"Why should I wear those big, ugly things?" he said. "Or," he added with a shudder, "those shirts" -- meaning the bold "Madiba shirts" that Mr. Mandela adopted after a trip to Indonesia.
Mr. Mbeki intends to fit his own smaller but more meticulously polished shoes.
Born on June 18, 1942, Thabo Mbeki (pronounced TAH-boh mm-BEG-ee) grew up in poverty in Mbewuleni village in the Idutywa area of the Transkei -- the historic land of the Xhosa.
Though he grew up on the side of the valley with the rural peasantry who wore blankets and painted their faces with red clay, Mr. Mbeki was the son of radical party intellectuals who ran a small store and taught school to survive.
He was in the liberation struggle virtually from the age of 10, when he and a cousin sold Coke bottles to raise money to pay their African National Congress membership fees. The struggle eventually cost him a son, a brother and, two biographers say, any real relationship with his father, who was one of its heroes.
The father, Govan Mbeki, spent much of his life in jail and sent his children away to relatives very young so they couldn't come to depend on parents who expected to be arrested. The elder Mr. Mbeki, whose wife still lives in Idutywa, now lives in a bungalow on the grounds of his son's official mansion, but "seems sad, lonely and regretful," with "little familial warmth either in the relationship or even in Thabo's achievements," according to a new biography, "The Life and Times of Thabo Mbeki" (Adrian Hadland and Jovial Rantao, Zebra Press, April 1999).
Mr. Mbeki dislikes revealing himself. His precampaign book "Africa, the Time Has Come" is just a collection of speeches, with a dry 22-page biographical sketch.
But even the speeches reveal a great deal. His 1964 statement to a United Nations committee in London, delivered when he was a 21-year-old student asking it to somehow prevent the Pretoria Government from hanging his father, is an ennobling portrait of the elder Mr. Mbeki, touching in its combination of humility and righteousness.
His 1978 speech "The Historical Injustice" shows a piercing intellectualism as he subjects the history of South Africa to Marxist analysis, skewering the British imperialists and the Boer pioneers for corrupting even the capitalism and Calvinism they preached, regressing into feudalism, a racist version of Lutheranism and simple murder and theft because it was easier and more profitable than adopting the liberalizing trends of Europe.
And for sheer poetic power, his "I Am an African" speech, celebrating the new Constitution in 1996, surpasses even the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech, which it somewhat resembles -- although Dr. King was a more riveting speaker.
He is becoming better known because biographers are probing his past; the fact that he fathered a child at 16 who disappeared 17 years later, probably at the hands of the police, has humanized him a bit. So have photos of him as a young man leaning affectionately against friends or smiling at his 1974 London wedding to Zanele Dlamini, who was studying social work and now heads a bank for rural women.
Mr. Mbeki is now seen as a politician, but he is really a lifelong intellectual guerrilla, rather than an armed one. At Lovedale Institution, a South African boarding school, he excelled at Latin, mathematics and science, but was expelled in his senior year for leading a student strike. A white teacher who recognized his erudition arranged for a scholarship to the University of Sussex in England; but he began school late because he had been arrested by the Rhodesian Government while trying to slip out to Britain without a passport.
After getting a degree in economics and backing causes from nuclear disarmament to getting the United States out of Vietnam, he was sent by Oliver Tambo, the London-based president of the African National Congress, to set up offices in Zambia, Botswana, Swaziland and Mozambique, making the white South African Government feel surrounded.
He became one of the public faces of the dissident group, meeting reporters and accompanying Mr. Tambo on diplomatic trips to Moscow, Washington and other capitals. In the 1980's, when white executives and prominent Afrikaners defied their Government to meet the African National Congress in exile, Mr. Mbeki was always there.
In 1990, after the A.N.C. was legalized, he returned home for the first time in 28 years.
While the spotlight briefly lingered on Cyril Ramaphosa, a union leader who negotiated the new Constitution, Mr. Mbeki returned to his role as heir apparent with his election as African National Congress chairman in 1993.
The fear of him, particularly asserted among whites, is that he prefers back-room victories to open debate and puts "Africanism" above equality.
Those fears got new fuel this week when Business Day, a financial paper, reported that he had intervened to stop Judge Edwin Cameron, one of the country's best legal minds, from being named to the highest court.
Quoting "judges and lawyers close to the process," the paper said he persuaded Mr. Mandela to choose an "able and solid" black candidate because there are only three nonwhites on the 11-seat Constitutional Court.
Mr. Mbeki's legal adviser denied that he did more than consult, but that was regarded with skepticism; his office never admits being behind the sidelining of political rivals.
But in a recent interview with the newspaper The Sowetan, Mr. Mbeki made no bones about his "Africanist" perspective.
"If you are talking about poverty alleviation and eradication, then necessarily you will focus on people who are poorest," he said. "If that is what is mean by Africanist, you cannot avoid it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thabo Mbeki has said he intends to exercise power with humility. He acknowledged victory at an election party in Johannesburg yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (93%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (77%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (93%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (77%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (72%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS POLITICS (77%); FUNDRAISING (74%); CORRUPTION (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CHILDREN (64%); ARRESTS (60%); WRITERS (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR; MBEKI, THABO (DEPUTY PRES); MANDELA, NELSON (PRES) THABO MBEKI (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



65 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Exiled Leaders of Tiananmen Gather to Mull Errors and Accomplishments

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., June 3

 BODY:
For the first time since soldiers drove them at gunpoint from Beijing's Tiananmen Square 10 years ago, the top leaders of China's democracy movement gathered at Harvard University today, like alumni converging for a reunion on the leafy New England campus.
The gathering of the men and women the Chinese Communists had denounced as instigators of a "counter-revolutionary rebellion" was itself significant, the leaders said, since some of them spent years in prison and others have squabbled among themselves over what went wrong and what they can do from exile to change China's Government. 
 The former leaders, most of whom were university students at the time, offered no new plan for political reform in China, but they acknowledged mistakes they had made with unusual candor and insisted that the movement they began has already changed China for the better.
"Tiananmen did not fail," said Li Lu, who was a physics student at Nanjing University and a leader of the Tiananmen demonstrators before the Communist leadership called in the troops on the night of June 3-4, 1989.
"The Communists killed the messenger but had to take part of the message," said Mr. Li, who is now managing partner of Himalaya Capital Partners, a hedge fund in New York. "The democracy movement marked the end of the idea that one party dictatorship can bring good to China, and so now the Communists are tolerating things like village elections that they would never have accepted before."
Among those who attended the conference were Wang Dan, who organized the student discussion groups at Beijing University in the months before the spring 1989 protests; Wang Juntao, who ran an independent think tank in Beijing that backed the students; and Wu'er Kaixi, a student at Beijing Normal University who gained prominence by daring to challenge Prime Minister Li Peng during a nationally televised meeting. Both Wang Dan and Wang Juntao were arrested after the crackdown and sent to prison. Mr. Wu'er escaped and now works as a radio talk-show host in Taiwan.
They were joined by Wei Jingsheng, perhaps China's best-known dissident and the author of the most daring wall posters calling for democracy during the short-lived Democracy Wall movement in 1979. For his temerity, Mr. Wei spent 18 years in prison.
Today, Mr. Wu'er said, "I'm optimistic, even in exile." The Communists think they have made a "deal" with the Chinese people, giving them economic development instead of political freedom, he said.
"What the Chinese Government doesn't understand," he said, "is that the people become greedy when they start to make money, and when the Government thinks it is satisfying them by giving them economic freedom, the people will inevitably want more freedom to protect their ability to make money, until this leads to democracy."
Merle Goldman, a professor of Chinese history at Boston University and an expert on Chinese dissidents, said the participants at the conference now have "a much better understanding of what democracy means and what it takes to bring about political change. The tragedy is, they can't use this knowledge now from abroad."
"This is a group that is remarkably talented and intelligent and cares about China," she said, pointing to the success of most of the leaders since they were exiled. In addition to Mr. Li, who has degrees from Columbia's law and business schools, she said, Wang Dan is a graduate student in history at Harvard, Wang Juntao is studying for his Ph.D. in political science at Columbia, and Chai Ling, the best-known female student leader, runs her own Internet company in Cambridge, having earned a degree from the Harvard Business School.
Paradoxically, Mr. Wu'er pointed out, many of these highly intelligent activists got their inspiration from Mao Zedong, when he launched the Cultural Revolution in the late 1960's. "We spent our first 10 years in the Cultural Revolution, and we came to believe that if all the people in the world united, we could create utopia," Mr. Wu'er said. "It was very idealistic and appealing."
The experience also led these young Chinese to question authority, as Mao preached that the youthful Red Guards should track down and attack corrupt party officials, Mr. Wu'er said. Then, when Mao died in 1976 and Deng Xiaoping replaced him as China's paramount leader, Mr. Wu'er continued, he "left us confused" by denouncing the Cultural Revolution and preaching that to "get rich is glorious." This created a "vacuum in ideology" that prompted some students to begin studying democracy on their own.
But there was also criticism today of the students' tactics. Chen Jun, a former Red Guard turned welder who published a magazine during the Democracy Wall movement in 1979, said the student protesters had a "dream without a plan or leadership" and led a "romantic-tragic movement."
The students in 1989, Mr. Chen said, were too elitist and mired in China's imperial tradition of petitioning the Government for change rather than striking out on their own, and too afraid of the Government's reaction if they allied themselves with dissatisfied factory workers who could have brought them greater numbers and power.
Mr. Li said the group, now formally organized as the Tiananmen Generation Association, plans to meet again next year, in Taiwan, to observe the presidential election there.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A reunion of Tiananmen protest leaders at Harvard yesterday brought together Wang Dan, left, and Shen Tong. (Evan Richman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (88%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY CAPITAL PARTNERS HOLDINGS II-A LP (55%); CAPITAL PARTNERS OCP AS (55%); CAPITAL PARTNERS AS (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; TIANANMEN SQUARE (BEIJING); BEIJING (CHINA); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (88%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); POLITICS (74%); RIOTS (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; LI LU; WANG DAN; SHEN TONG MAO ZEDONG (59%); WANG JUNTAO (57%); WANG DAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



66 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Canada Agree on a Plan to Restrict Catches of Endangered Salmon

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, June 3

 BODY:
Seeking to end a long-festering international dispute that has imperiled salmon stocks and once provoked an angry blockade of Alaska-bound ferries by Canadian fishermen, the United States and Canada announced a comprehensive plan today to set quotas on salmon catches along thousands of miles of the Pacific Ocean coast and establish a conservation fund to help protect the fish.
After failing to agree on such limits after the last salmon treaty expired seven years ago, the two countries have engaged in often heated disagreements over who was responsible for dwindling runs of the region's signature fish. The salmon are, of course, oblivious to international boundaries, spawning in the rivers of one nation and migrating to the seas of the other, and forging any kind of binational pact to protect them had proved a remarkably contentious proposition. 
 Both sides sought to impose various limits, angering the other. At one point, Canada seized several American fishing boats, and British Columbia once threatened to block the United States Navy from access to a submarine test station in Canada. And in the summer of 1997, embittered Canadian fishermen who blamed Alaskans for taking too many fish formed a 180-boat flotilla around an Alaskan ferry for three days near Prince Rupert, British Columbia.
But now, with both nations having taken serious steps in recent years to declare their salmon species threatened, and with the leaders of both countries agreeing that a new pact was needed, negotiators said today that they had negotiated an agreement, one that will cut catches of some particular salmon runs by up to 40 percent. Among the negotiators, who spoke at briefings here and in Vancouver, was Lloyd Cutler, a former White House counsel, appointed by President Clinton to head the American bargaining team.
In some cases, the fund will be used to buy up fishing licenses, essentially paying fishermen not to fish. But more broadly, through a complex patchwork of guidelines covering dozens of different rivers and salmon populations over the next dozen years, the pact will for the first time set yearly harvest levels based on scientific measurements of the salmon stocks. This "abundance-based" system will replace pre-set limits that both countries had tried to impose in the past.
The new agreement covers coastal areas and rivers in Oregon, Washington, British Columbia and Alaska. Some elements will need legislative approval in both countries, including authorization of the conservation funds, but there are few signs that that process will be contentious.
By itself, the agreement will not necessarily revive the nine different salmon runs declared threatened or endangered earlier this year under this country's Endangered Species Act. But it will be a major element of an overall plan to restore the salmon populations, which in many cases are at only a fraction of their peak populations earlier this century.
A hundred years ago, a visiting biologist from the Smithsonian Institution, Richard Rathbun, found the fish to be so prevalent in the Northwest that he wrote, "The quantities of salmon which frequent these waters is beyond calculation, and seems to be so great as to challenge human ingenuity to affect it in any way."
But development, logging, irrigation for farming, dam-building, overfishing and countless other human activities have combined since then to hammer the salmon population.
Gov. Gary Locke of Washington, a Democrat, hailed today's announcement as a landmark in which both countries had agreed to switch from a "first-come" fishing policy to a "fish-first conservation approach."
Much of the salmon eaten in this country is raised in domestic pens, and the availability and price of that fish is unlikely to be affected by today's agreement. But those who fancy the higher-priced wild fish could well find that its price rises, especially in years in which low measurements require significant cutbacks in the harvest.
As one example in the network of new rules, the ceiling on catches of chinook salmon from southeast Alaska, now set at about 263,000 yearly, would be lowered to about 150,000 in years of what is defined as "normal abundance," said Jeff Curtis, Western conservation director for Trout Unlimited, a group that has been lobbying strongly for a new treaty to protect salmon runs.
But that number could fall to as low as about 60,000 or could be set even higher than current limits.
"The whole issue is incredibly complex," Mr. Curtis said. "But what we have here is a pretty reasonable and innovative compromise."
Other steps will clearly be needed to revive the salmon, and the listing under the endangered-species act has prompted local governments in the growing Seattle-Tacoma and Portland areas to outline possible measures, from raising water rates and curbing fertilizer and pesticide use to curbing new development.
And another debate looms over once-unthinkable proposals to remove some dams in the West, which interfere with the salmon's ability to return to their spawning grounds.
The roughly $150 million in the conservation fund, most of it paid by the United States, will be used to buy licenses and to undertake restoration efforts in rivers whose spawning areas have been damaged.
In a bid to give a political lift to Vice President Al Gore, the White House had him issue an official statement about the treaty, which is likely to help Mr. Gore's Presidential campaign in the Northwest.
"Our agreement today with the Government of Canada on Pacific salmon is welcome news for the environment and for the economy in both our countries," Mr. Gore said. "Salmon are part of the very fabric of the Pacific Northwest, and President Clinton and I are absolutely committed to insuring that they not only survive but thrive once again."
In Ottawa, Foreign Minister Lloyd Axworthy praised the agreement in an announcement to Parliament.
"It does demonstrate that when two sides work together for a mutual benefit, in this case the conservation of the fishing stock, you can come up with a good deal," Mr. Axworthy said.
If the treaty is successful, the numbers of wild chinook and coho salmon returning each year to rivers in Oregon, Washington and Idaho could grow by the thousands because Canada would have taken steps to limit fishing hundreds of miles to the north. Similarly, cuts in the American fishing harvests, here and in Alaska, could restore thousands of fish to the great spawning areas of Canada's West Coast, including the Fraser River, one of the principal rivers for sockeye salmon.
Those sockeye spawn in the river, and the young salmon make their way out to the Pacific, later returning through Alaska, British Columbia and the San Juan Islands of Washington to their native grounds to spawn and begin the cycle again.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A gill netter pulls in a sockeye salmon on Canada's Fraser River. (Ian Smith/Vancouver Sun)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTL (TSX) (85%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CATALYST PAPER CORP (85%); US NAVY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; BRITISH COLUMBIA (CANADA); OREGON; WASHINGTON (STATE); ALASKA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; SALMON; QUOTAS ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); FINFISH FISHING (90%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FISHES (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FISHERIES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (89%); BIOLOGY (86%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); FISHING LAW (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); NAVIES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (60%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



67 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
New Space for Middle-Income Market

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
Weeks before Queensway -- a 122-unit middle-income rental building in Woodside, Queens -- was completed last month, it was fully leased, reflecting the demand for housing for people with annual incomes of $35,000 to $80,000.
The studio, one- and two-bedroom apartments, with 425 to 900 square feet of space, were rented in 10 days in April for $750 to $1,425 a month. They are on the upper six floors of the eight-story building at 58-12 Queens Boulevard, between 58th and 59th Streets. 
 The first floor houses a 25,000-square-foot Staples office supply store, and the second floor has 20,000 square feet of medical office space. There is also parking for 235 cars, for residents and patrons of the businesses.
The $17.6 million project is the latest, and among the largest, completed so far under the city's New Housing Opportunities Program, which is meant to spur the development of middle-income apartments.
The program, which issued its first round of financing 12 months ago, provides developers with construction and permanent financing as well as a public subsidy in the form of a second mortgage of up to $3 million at an interest rate of 1 percent, or up to $30,000 per unit. In exchange, developers must build or renovate rental buildings or limited-equity cooperatives for middle-income residents. The tenant's annual income may not exceed seven or eight times, depending on family size, the monthly rents for the apartments, or 250 percent of the median New York City income, or $133,500, whichever is less. Allowable monthly rents range from $600 for the smallest studios to $1,750 for the largest three-bedroom apartments. The Queensway studios rent for $750 a month because they are not among the smallest in developments financed under the program.
Developers with new construction projects are also eligible for a 25-year tax abatement from the city. Those who are renovating structures can get an abatement of up to 20 years. Both abatements diminish over time until the buildings are assessed the prevailing property taxes.
In the program's first round, $113 million was provided to 15 projects with a total of 1,061 residences; 4 of the projects are complete and the remainder will be completed over the next 3 to 12 months. Under the second round, announced in March, $150 million to $175 million in financing is expected to be given over the next year to produce 1,200 to 1,500 more units, according to city figures.
Queensway received a $17.6 million construction loan, which the city's Housing Development Corporation, using proceeds from the sale of taxable bonds, will convert into an $11.8 million permanent loan. The corporation, using its own reserves, will provide a $2.2 million second loan. The Dime Savings Bank of New York guaranteed the construction loan and is to provide a $5.7 million permanent mortgage for the project's commercial component.
The financing made the developer, CDI Queens Blvd. L.L.C. of Great Neck, N.Y., "feel comfortable enough to move forward" with the project, said Charles J. Belanich, a partner. He and his two partners, his brother John Belanich and Ivan Starcic, invested $5 million in the project.
Charles Belanich said that when the partners took on the project three years ago, they intended to build only the commercial space. "The market in Queens was not there then to do the housing," he said.
The partners bought the site, once occupied by a gas station, a warehouse and a few residences, in 1996 from Astoria Federal Savings Bank. The bank had foreclosed on the property a few years earlier when the original developer ran into financial difficulties.
In 1997, the partners secured Staples as a retail tenant. Late that year, Mr. Belanich said, the partners started work on the commercial space and invested $500,000 to construct a foundation that would accommodate the additional six stories of housing at a later date. That date came sooner than expected, thanks to the city financing, he added.
About 200 applications were received for the 122 apartments. "As many applicants were rejected for making too much money as for making too little," Mr. Belanich said.
Tenants will begin moving in this month. Matthew Goldstein, 28, a ticket brokerage employee and aspiring actor, is leaving a shared apartment on the Upper East Side for a studio at Queensway.
"I wanted my own place, and with a tight budget I knew I had to go out of Manhattan to afford an apartment," Mr. Goldstein said, noting that he will be paying $50 more a month for his studio than he pays for his share of the rent in Manhattan. "I never thought I would find a place so quickly. I'm thrilled."
Russell A. Harding, president of the Housing Development Corporation, said that because land and construction costs have risen, subsidies for projects financed under the program's second round have been increased to up to $30,000 per unit from $20,000 per unit. Developers are eligible to receive up to 50 cents more for every $1 in land costs that exceed the typical $20,000 per unit.
And to encourage family-size apartments, the corporation will provide up to $25,000 per unit to developers with projects in which at least half of the apartments have two or more bedrooms, and up to $30,000 per unit if 75 percent of the units have two or more bedrooms. Developers can also receive up to $25,000 per unit if rents are 15 percent to 30 percent lower than the levels acceptable under the program, and up to $30,000 per unit if rents are more than 30 percent lower. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DME (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: DIME SAVINGS BANK OF NEW YORK FSB (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (91%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); EQUITY FINANCING (72%); FINANCING ROUNDS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (69%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (69%); BONDS (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TAX RELIEF (66%); SECOND MORTGAGES (65%); TAX INCENTIVES (61%); TAX LAW (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE CHARLES J BELANICH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



68 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: BELGRADE;
Weary and Wary, the Serbs Are Bitter

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, June 3

 BODY:
It was hard to find anyone in Belgrade today who expressed support for President Slobodan Milosevic, but with the news of a peace deal, the recriminations came unusually swiftly.
Ivica Tasic, 33, a bookseller on the main shopping street, asked the most common question: "Who will ask him why so many people had to die and all of us have had to go through this? He will never have to answer." 
 And Katarina Ivanovic, 32, asked, "Why did all those people die?"
Residents of Belgrade expressed relief at the news of a deal that could end the war, but their relief was tinged with bitterness that they had been put through 10 weeks of bombing for little apparent gain.
Most politicians welcomed Belgrade's acceptance of NATO's terms as a chance for peace and prosperity, but people on the street did not seem so sure. Few said they would be celebrating. Many were uncertain, even skeptical that this really meant an end to the war. Some warned that NATO had more in store for them.
"It's all a trick," said one flamboyantly dressed student with ragged dreadlocks. "They will send nuclear bombs next."
Jelena, an economist who has found herself unemployed since the beginning of the war, said: "People will not be celebrating. They are relieved but weary. This is a wise decision, but it should have been accepted at the beginning."
Visnja, a retired teacher, said, "It is great, because it means a stop to the killing of people and to the ruin of our country." She acknowledged that the agreement seemed like a defeat for Serbia, but added, "We do not have any other choice."
Mr. Milosevic had to agree because he faced "a destroyed country and destroyed people," said Visnja's friend Mila, an architect. Both women chatted freely in an outdoor cafe, but they did not want their full names in a foreign newspaper.
"I think that he was even thinking of going on to fight a ground war," Mila said of Mr. Milosevic, "but there are some intelligent people around who warned that we should on no account embark on a ground war."
For such "intelligent people," the women said, the loss of electricity and water was the last straw. Added to that, Mila had four missiles land just 300 yards from her home on Monday. "I did not realize the bombing would be so drastic, that civilians would be killed," she said. "I thought it would just be in Kosovo."
Many Serbs expressed anger at their Government for the long bombing campaign. "That was a mistake of our Government," said Damir, 22, a waiter in a hotel restaurant. "A lot of people died for nothing."
His friend Nenat, 23, chimed in, "We did not want foreign troops on our land, but now so many people have died, it's not worth it anymore."
Some tried to put a good face on things. "Well, everything is O.K. if you have your head on your shoulders," said Sloba, a worker drinking beer with a friend selling popcorn. "Things will get better."
Others took some solace in branding NATO a loser, too.
"At least Kosovo is clean of a lot of Albanians and not all of them will come back," said Nenat, a supporter of the extreme nationalist Serbian Radical Party.
As Mila put it: "You could not say NATO is the winner when they had such a large force and they had to bomb for nearly three months." Her friend Visnja added, "NATO is the moral loser -- such a large force attacking such a small country."
Many Serbs remain suspicious of NATO's intentions, saying they expect that the alliance would not be satisfied with occupying Kosovo and would later move to take over the whole of Serbia in their pursuit of Mr. Milosevic.
Few think that Serbia will be free of war for long: some foresee civil war, and some think NATO will be behind it. Nenat said that "with 50,000 troops" in Kosovo to resettle refugees, the alliance "could start a war in 15 minutes,"
Virtually everyone predicts that Serbian civilians will flee Kosovo as their troops and police forces leave, swamping Serbia with a new wave of refugees. They also predict an exodus from Serbia as people try to go abroad. "What is there for us here?" Nenat asked. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (96%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; BELGRADE (SERBIA); KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); BOOKSTORES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); POWER FAILURES (66%); 

PERSON: GALL, CARLOTTA; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



69 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Rivlin, No. 2 Official to Greenspan, Quits at Fed

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
Alice M. Rivlin resigned today as vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, leaving the No. 2 job empty at the central bank as it confronts a tough call on whether to raise interest rates.
Ms. Rivlin, 68, said she was stepping down to do research at the Brookings Institution and to devote more time to her role as head of the District of Columbia's Financial Assistance Authority, which is trying to clean up Washington's finances. 
 Colleagues said there was no hidden agenda in her decision, which came a little less than four weeks before the Fed is to next vote on whether the persistent strength of economic growth requires an increase in interest rates to forestall the possibility of resurgent inflation.
Although her resignation will not take effect until July 16, the Fed said she would not take part in the monetary policy meeting June 29 and 30.
While unexpected, Ms. Rivlin's resignation is unlikely to have a crucial effect on the debate within the Fed on the degree of danger that inflation poses to the nation's long economic expansion.
She has been perhaps the most outspoken proponent at the central bank of the view that the economy is more capable of noninflationary growth than in the past, and more sympathetic than most of her fellow policy makers to the idea that driving the unemployment rate lower under those circumstances is worth the risk of a slight uptick in prices.
But her views were well within the economic mainstream, and never once during her three-year tenure did she vote against the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, whose influence inside and outside the institution vastly overshadowed her own. Indeed, Ms. Rivlin was the fourth deputy since Mr. Greenspan took office almost 12 years ago.
"Greenspan has the bulk of the power, given both his position as chairman and his successful stewardship of the Fed up until now," said William Dudley, an economist at Goldman, Sachs & Company. "This doesn't really change things very much."
Ms. Rivlin accepted the Fed post somewhat reluctantly in 1996 at President Clinton's behest, and although she was sometimes mentioned as a possible successor to Mr. Greenspan, she never lost the reputation of being more interested in fiscal policy -- her area of expertise -- than in monetary policy. And Mr. Greenspan showed every sign of wanting to stay on in the job even after his third term ends next June.
Ms. Rivlin declined interview requests today.
Her departure leaves Mr. Clinton with two slots to fill on the Fed's seven-member board of governors. The White House is close to completing background checks on its choice for the seat left open last year by the resignation of Susan M. Phillips -- Carol Parry, an executive vice president of Chase Manhattan.
Administration officials said they had been aware of Ms. Rivlin's intention to leave for several weeks, and that the search for a successor was "well under way." They gave no hint of who was under consideration.
Ms. Rivlin announced her resignation after the close of the stock market. The news had little effect on other financial markets.
In her resignation letter to Mr. Clinton, Ms. Rivlin said, "The Fed is a strong bulwark of U.S. economic policy, and I believe we have contributed to keeping the American economy growing and reducing strains in the international financial system.".
In a statement, Mr. Greenspan said, "Her wisdom influenced all our deliberations."
Mr. Clinton, for whom she served as White House budget director and before that deputy director, said in a statement that she had been "a steady and strong voice for fiscal discipline."
Fed watchers have scrutinized the central bank particularly closely the last several weeks, after its decision on May 18 to tilt policy toward an increase in interest rates. The first substantial clue could come on Friday, when the Labor Department releases May unemployment data.
In many ways, the Fed's discussions in coming weeks will crystallize a debate that has dominated policy making for the last several years. To a substantial degree, that debate has revolved around issues central to Ms. Rivlin's view of the economy. She has made the case that not just factors like higher productivity are tamping down inflation, but that low unemployment -- seen in traditional economic models as a trigger for inflation -- might itself be spurring higher productivity by forcing companies to hold down wage costs through improved efficiency.
"Economists have had in their head the idea that tight labor markets would lead to inflation and low productivity," she said in an interview in April with The Financial Times. "It may be that under the present circumstances of fierce global competition, the effect of tight labor markets is exactly the opposite."
Ms. Rivlin has also been forthright in her belief that a low unemployment rate -- especially during a period in which Federal, state and local governments are pushing many welfare recipients into the work force for the first time -- is a benefit that should not be given away through blind adherence to old rules about the relationship between inflation, growth and unemployment.
"The models have been predicting higher inflation based on tight labor markets," said Sung Won Sohn, an economist at Wells Fargo & Company in Minneapolis. "Alice Rivlin tended to rely less on models and more on her own judgment."
Ms. Rivlin's long service as an economist and public official included the post of director of the Congressional Budget Office, which she founded, from 1975 to 1983.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alice M. Rivlin at the White House answering budget proposal questions. (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (50%); 

PERSON: RIVLIN, ALICE M ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



70 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Roche to Pay $4.2 Billion For the Rest of Genentech
Roche Holding, the European drug maker, said that it would exercise its right to buy the 33 percent of Genentech it does not already own for $82.50 a share, or $4.2 billion. Roche will then issue new shares equivalent to as much as 19 percent of Genentech, the pioneering biotechnology company, so the company can continue to be publicly traded. 
 Analysts said the transaction was good for Roche, which should realize a gain when it sells shares, and good for Genentech, which retains its quasi-independent status. But it is not so good for stockholders because shares have been as high as $90 over the last year. They fell $4.50, to $82, on the news. Page C2.
 
Retail Sales Increased 5.6% in May
Sales in retail stores open at least a year rose 5.6 percent in May as consumers continued to show great confidence in the economy by snatching up everything from wardrobes in summer white to pool furniture. C2.
 
Stocks Mixed Ahead of Jobs Report
Stock prices were mixed as traders and investors awaited today's release of the Government's monthly report on the job market for May. The Nasdaq composite index finished with a loss of 29.09 points, or 1.2 percent, to 2,403.32. The Dow Jones industrial average surged in the final 15 minutes of trading and ended with a gain of 85.80 points, or eight-tenths of a percent, to 10,663.69. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended with a gain of 4.73 points, or four-tenths of a percent, to 1,299.54. C7.
 
Microsoft Scrutinizes Testimony
A lawyer for Microsoft questioned the credibility of James Barksdale, the chief executive of Netscape, in the rebuttal phase of the software giant's antitrust trial. The apparent inconsistencies between Mr. Barksdale's testimony last fall and statements out of court caught the attention of Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson -- so much so that the judge urged a Government lawyer to take account of them in court. C5.
 
New Publisher at Los Angeles Times
Kathryn Downing was named publisher of The Los Angeles Times, taking over from Mark Willes, who remains chairman and chief executive of the paper's parent, Times Mirror. Ms. Downing, the paper's president for the last 14 months, was hand-picked by Mr. Willes as his successor. C6.
 
Sanctions Sought in Beef Dispute
A trans-Atlantic fight over hormone-treated beef intensified when United States and Canadian officials asked the World Trade Organization to approve $253 million in retaliatory trade sanctions and the European Union countered by demanding arbitration that it hopes will lower the overall amount. C4.
 
Factory Orders Rose 0.5% in April
Factory orders rose half a percent in April, excluding demand at aircraft makers, the fifth increase in the last six months, Commerce Department figures showed. Overall orders fell 1.2 percent during the month after declining six-tenths of a percent in March. In a separate report, initial jobless claims rose 4,000, to 305,000, last week. C2.
 
China Tightens Control of Currency
The Chinese authorities announced that they were tightening control over international transfers of the yuan, the nation's currency. The news rekindled fear about a devaluation, but the People's Bank of China denied any such plans. C4.
 
New Global Banking Rules Proposed
The top global banking regulator introduced proposals that would strengthen protections against bad loans and subject the risk-assessment operations of big international banks to greater supervision. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,663.69 up 85.80
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.95% up 0.03
The Dollar -- 121.66 yen up .033
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows the unemployment rate, from Nov. 1998 through April 1999. May figures due today. Expected: 4.3%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ROG (SWX) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ROCHE HOLDING AG (91%); GENENTECH INC (91%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); RETAIL SALES (74%); SAME STORE SALES (74%); BEEF (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); LAWYERS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (63%); TRADE DISPUTES (63%); APPROVALS (61%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (57%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: JAMES BARKSDALE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



71 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE NETTLES;
Kosovo Problems Just Beginning

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
Even if the agreement reached today with Slobodan Milosevic ends the bombing of Yugoslavia, staggering problems lie ahead, first among them the repatriation of nearly a million Kosovars to the land of ashes and graves that was their home.
If they do return, experts on the region said, the Kosovars will probably rally behind the guerrillas of the Kosovo Liberation Army, making the rebels even less likely to disarm or abandon their dreams of independence, which NATO opposes. 
 "There are three things to watch as this unfolds," said Michael Mandelbaum, a professor of foreign policy at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. "First, the war isn't over until the bombing stops. Second, it's not a success until the refugees return. And third, it will not hold until the K.L.A. is disarmed."
Beyond that, the United States and its allies must still find a way of dealing with President Milosevic, now indicted for war crimes but still the man in charge in Belgrade.
Then the allies have to repair relations with the Russians and Chinese, which have been sorely strained by the Kosovo conflict.
Beyond that stretches the enormously costly challenge of rebuilding the devastated economies of Kosovo, the rest of Serbia and their neighbors. Only if that succeeds can the United States and NATO begin to think of ending the stewardship they have now assumed, whether by design or miscalculation, in the perennially troublesome Balkans.
"What remains unresolved far exceeds what has been resolved," said Richard N. Haass, director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution.
The gloomy and cautious talk stood in contrast to the hopes raised by Belgrade's apparent agreement to conditions for an end to the 10-week bombardment negotiated by Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia, President Martti Ahtisaari of Finland and Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott of the United States. As described by the negotiators, these conditions include the verifiable withdrawal of all Serbian troops from Kosovo, the deployment of a NATO-led peace force and the return of refugees.
To the experts, however, the very fact that Mr. Milosevic had agreed to a deal touched off alarms. Many voiced suspicions either that he would test allied resolve further, as President Saddam Hussein has done repeatedly in Iraq, or that he would undermine the peace in other ways.
David Rieff, a senior fellow at the World Policy Institute who has written extensively on the region, said: "If Milosevic is able to call some kind of victory, this is a pause, rather than the end. I hope I'm wrong, God knows. But my sense of this is that strife is mother's milk to Milosevic. He hasn't changed. He's no different from the man responsible for the Bosnian war and the mass expulsion of most Kosovars and the murder, we'll probably discover, of many, many thousands."
Assuming that the deal works, a Pentagon official said, NATO forces must work swiftly to assess the situation in Kosovo and to determine when and how the refugees can start returning home. One problem, the official said, is to prevent a chaotic flood of refugees. The official said the first priority would be to care for the untold thousands of Kosovars driven from their homes but still wandering about in the province.
Some experts, however, thought it might prove difficult to persuade many refugees to return home.
"All I hear from people who follow refugees is that many will choose not to go home," said Walter R. Mead, senior fellow for United States foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. "It's too late to put in a crop, their homes are devastated and burned down, the roads are all in a mess, there's nothing to go back to except a winter of starvation."
Mr. Haass added: "NATO cannot coerce them to return. It has to be safe. They have to have shelter, a livelihood."
If NATO does succeed in bringing home the refugees, the peacekeeping forces will be confronted with the problem of disarming a strengthened rebel army and quelling demands for independence. Today's agreement reportedly reaffirms that the guerrillas should be disarmed and that Kosovo should remain, at least formally, a province of Serbia.
The overarching problem, said Susan Woodward, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, "is that all the people we want to help us make a stable Kosovo have been destroyed by the effects of the bombings. They're either in third countries, or so traumatized that they can't be reorganized, or they've been killed."
"The people who are going to control the next stage of the process are the K.L.A.," she said.
The long-term challenge before NATO will be to find ways of disentangling itself from the Balkans. That, the experts agreed, will require restoring a viable economy to the entire region, including Serbia.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); IRAQ (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); IMMIGRATION (75%); WAR CRIMES (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); INDICTMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



72 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS;
Kosovo Peace Accord: 10 Steps to a Verifiable End of Violence

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
Following is the text of the international proposal to end the Kosovo conflict that was accepted today by President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia. The text was provided by the State Department.
 Agreement should be reached on the following principles to move toward a resolution of the Kosovo crisis: 

1. Immediate and verifiable end of violence and repression in Kosovo.
 
2. Verifiable withdrawal from Kosovo of all military, police and paramilitary forces according to a rapid timetable.
 
3. Deployment in Kosovo under U.N. auspices of effective international civil and security presences, acting as may be decided under Chapter VII of the Charter, capable of guaranteeing the achievement of common objectives.
 
4. The international security presence with substantial NATO participation must be deployed under unified command and control and authorized to establish a safe environment of all people in Kosovo and to facilitate the safe return to their homes of all displaced persons and refugees.
 
5. Establishment of an interim administration of Kosovo as a part of the international civil presence under which the people of Kosovo can enjoy substantial autonomy within the F.R.Y. Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to be decided by the Security Council of the United Nations. Interim administration to provide transitional administration while establishing and overseeing the development of provisional democratic self-governing institutions to insure conditions for a peaceful and normal life for all inhabitants in Kosovo.
 
6. After withdrawal, an agreed number of Yugoslav and Serbian personnel will be permitted to return to perform the following functions:
*Liaison with international civil mission and international security presence.
*Marking/clearing minefields.
*Maintaining a presence at Serb patrimonial sites.
*Maintaining a presence at key border crossings.
 
7. Safe and free return of all refugees and displaced persons under the supervision of the U.N.H.C.R. and unimpeded access to Kosovo by humanitarian aid organizations.
 
8. A political process towards the establishment of an interim political framework agreement providing for a substantial self-government for Kosovo, taking full account of the Rambouillet accords and the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the other countries of the region, and the demilitarization of the U.C.K. Kosovo Liberation Army . Negotiations between the parties for the settlement should not delay or disrupt the establishment of democratic self-governing institutions.
 
9. Comprehensive approach to the economic development and stabilization of the crisis region. This will include the implementation of a Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe with broad international participation in order to further promotion of democracy, economic prosperity, stability and regional cooperation.
 
10. Suspension of military activity will require acceptance of the principles set forth above in addition to agreement to other, previously identified, required elements, which are specified in the footnote below. A military-technical agreement will then be rapidly concluded that would, among other things, specify additional modalities including the roles and function of Yugoslav/Serb personnel in Kosovo:
 
Withdrawal
*Procedures for withdrawals, including the phased, detailed schedule and delineation of a buffer area in Serbia beyond which forces will be withdrawn.
 
Returning Personnel
*Equipment associated with returning personnel.
*Terms of reference for their functional responsibilities.
*Timetable for their return.
*Delineation of their geographical areas of operation.
*Rules governing their relationship to international security presence and international civil mission.
 
FOOTNOTE
Other Required Elements
*Rapid and precise timetable for withdrawals, meaning e.g., seven days to complete withdrawal; air defense weapons withdrawn outside a 25 kilometer mutual safety zone within 48 hours.
*Return of personnel for the four functions specified above will be under the supervision of the international security presence, and will be limited to a small agreed number (hundreds, not thousands).
*Suspension of military activity will occur after the beginning of verifiable withdrawals.
*The discussion and achieving of a military-technical agreement shall not extend the previously determined time for completion of withdrawals.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "SIDE BY SIDE -- Two Peace Plans: How They Differ"
Some of the key differences between the current peace plan and the one refused by the Serbs in France in talks in February and March.
 
TROOP WITHDRAWAL
NEW PLAN: A "quick" and "verifiable" withdrawal of all Serbian troops and police.
RAMBOUILLET: More gradual Serbian withdrawal.
 
PEACEKEEPERS
NEW PLAN: Peacekeepers are deployed under U.N. auspices with "an essential NATO participation."
RAMBOUILLET: 28,000 NATO peacekeepers commanded by NATO.
 
RETURNING SERBIAN PERSONNEL
NEW PLAN: The return of some Serbian military personnel, after their initial withdrawal, limits their number to "hundreds, not thousands."
RAMBOUILLET: Thousands of Serbian soldiers and military police could have remained in Kosovo for up to a year.
 
POLITICAL FUTURE
NEW PLAN: Guarantees "substantial autonomy" but appears much more ambiguous than Rambouillet. An interim administration will be selected by the U.N. Security Council.
RAMBOUILLET: Outlined a detailed political architecture, police and court system for postwar Kosovo. After three years a referendum would have led to independence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); LANDMINES (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



73 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Justice Dept. Is Said to Be Close to a Decision on Indicting a Chinese Company

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
In a diplomatically sensitive case, the Justice Department is nearing a decision on whether to indict one of China's most powerful state-owned corporations, law-enforcement officials and lawyers say.
Some career prosecutors in the department have recommended the indictment of the corporation, Catic, an aerospace giant, on charges of buying American machining equipment for civilian use in 1994 and diverting some of it to a military plant, the officials and lawyers said. 
 The equipment was sold to the Chinese by McDonnell Douglas, now part of The Boeing Company, which has also been under criminal investigation for possible violations of American export laws.
But the current chill in relations between Beijing and Washington and Congressional scrutiny of the case has complicated the decision. Law-enforcement officials said they were unaware of any previous case in which the United States had indicted a Chinese government entity on the scale of Catic, the China National Aero-Technology Import Export Corporation.
Catic agreed with the Justice Department last month to extend the deadline for filing charges, the officials and lawyers said. It was five years ago that McDonnell Douglas applied for a Commerce Department license to sell the machining equipment to Catic, which buys and sells civilian aerospace technology.
Since the extension, the parties have been in a "continuing dialogue," and Catic has discussed the possibility of paying a civil penalty to resolve the case, one lawyer said.
Barbara Van Gelder, Catic's lawyer in Washington, said today that "we are exploring a settlement with the Justice Department and the Commerce Department."
The Commerce Department can impose civil penalties for violations of export control laws and could bar Catic and its affiliates from future export licenses if the company was criminally convicted of export control violations.
Larry McCracken, a spokesman for Boeing, which bought McDonnell Douglas in 1997, said, "We're cooperating but we don't want to get into the details at this point."
A Justice Department spokesman had no comment on the investigation.
Catic has ample incentive to resolve the case without risking its fate with an American jury at a time of strained Chinese-American relations.
The sale of machining equipment was part of a billion-dollar jetliner deal in 1994 in which McDonnell Douglas was to build aircraft in China. At the time, the aircraft deal was promoted by President Clinton and Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown as a centerpiece of the Administration's commercial diplomacy, the policy of using economic engagement to broaden ties with Beijing and promote exports.
But within a few months of the announcement of the deal, McDonnell Douglas discovered that some of the equipment it sold to China had been sent 800 miles from Beijing to a military facility in Nanchang that makes missiles and fighter aircraft. And though the 1994 deal announced by President Clinton called for the building of 20 planes, a Boeing spokesman said today that China would build only 1 or 2 planes with the company.
A conviction of Catic could further strain relations between the countries and curb other American exports to China, officials said.
Moreover, the Administration's policy of promoting exports to China now faces serious challenge in Congress. Last week a select Congressional committee's report on transfers of sensitive American technology to China concluded that American export control policies had tilted too much toward commerce at the expense of national security.
The committee, headed by Representative Christopher Cox, Republican of California, said the machining equipment deal was a case study in how China "will attempt diversions when it suits its interests."
The committee's unanimous report also found that Catic had played a central role in China's drive to acquire technology with civilian and military uses and that on several occasions Catic had "misrepresented the proposed uses of military useful U.S. technology." The Clinton Administration prevented the committee from disclosing further details.
In addition, Justice Department officials blocked the committee from disclosing 1994 cables that showed how Administration officials delayed seeking timely assurances from Catic on how it planned to use the machining equipment so as not to disrupt Mr. Brown's announcement in China of the McDonnell Douglas aircraft deal, officials familiar with the report said.
The Commerce Department received an assurance from Catic after Mr. Brown left China but it left unanswered the question of exactly where the machining equipment would be located, according to excerpts from a Sept. 13, 1994, cable included in the Cox committee report.
On Sept. 14 the department approved the export of the machining equipment -- some of it more than a decade old, including machine tools to shape and bend large aircraft parts -- for use in Beijing as part of the McDonnell Douglas project to build aircraft in China.
The license included some last-minute additions to allay concerns raised by the Pentagon. In August, the Defense Intelligence Agency warned that the Chinese did not really need the equipment for the civilian aircraft deal but that "an advanced machine tool facility presents a unique opportunity for Chinese military aerospace facilities to access advanced equipment which otherwise might be denied," the Cox report said.
Commerce Department officials said the licensing conditions that were added led to a discovery by McDonnell Douglas in 1995 that some of the equipment had wound up at the Nanchang military complex. The equipment was eventually moved to a civilian location in China.
The Commerce Department began an investigation seven months after the discovery of the diversion. The discovery and recovery illustrate, Commerce officials say, that their enforcement system works.
The case was also referred to the Customs Service and the Justice Department. In 1996, a Federal grand jury began examining whether Catic and McDonnell Douglas had complied with export control laws.
By last September, prosecutors in the office of the United States Attorney for the District of Columbia had completed a lengthy memorandum recommending charges against both Catic and McDonnell Douglas, according to law-enforcement officials.
But then the lead prosecutor in the case left the Government. Over the next several months other prosecutors reviewed the case and asked the Customs Service to continue its investigation, officials said.
During the subsequent review, some lawyers basically concurred with the original memorandum while others raised questions, including some reservations about the strength of the case against McDonnell Douglas, which is said to rely more on circumstantial evidence, officials and lawyers said.
It is not known whether the Justice Department has given final approval to seek any indictments from the grand jury.

 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (85%); BAB (BRU) (85%); BA (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (92%); NAICS423860 TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (EXCEPT MOTOR VEHICLE) MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (92%); SIC5088 TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES, EXCEPT MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (85%); SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (62%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); JIANGXI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; CHINA NATIONAL AERO-TECHNOLOGY IMPORT EXPORT CORP; MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP AVIC INTERNATIONAL HOLDING CORP (92%); BOEING CO (85%); H BROWN LTD (62%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; CHINA NATIONAL AERO-TECHNOLOGY IMPORT EXPORT CORP; MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); JIANGXI, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (93%); LAWYERS (91%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); AIRCRAFT MFG (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (75%); EXPORT PROMOTION (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (81%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (81%); BILL CLINTON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



74 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Casino Visions, And Fears;
Man's Plan to Donate Land To Indians Riles Hamlet

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: SAMSONVILLE, N.Y.

 BODY:
For years, longtime residents and weekenders from Manhattan treasured this woodsy hamlet as the closest thing to rustic paradise, a place where the streams made more noise than the residents, where slender country roads rolled past old stone walls, where the number of general stores (1) dwarfed the number of traffic lights (0). One could sigh, and sigh again, when contemplating the crisp air, the clear-day vistas of Connecticut and, perhaps most precious of all, the leisurely and utterly predictable cadence of life.
But that was before the rumors about an American Indian casino turned life upside down, triggering fears that this pastoral incarnation of "Ah, Wilderness" would suddenly turn into "Paradise Lost." 
 It all began late last year, when word got out that a wealthy landowner here, Harry C. Fotopoulos, planned to donate about one-sixth of his more than 300 acres to the Oglala Sioux of South Dakota. The goal, Mr. Fotopoulos said, was to create a historic theme park and campground, complemented by a motel and some restaurants, that would help the impoverished tribe.
"I'm 70 years old," said Mr. Fotopoulos, who during a recent interview at his cabin here tucked a gun and hunting knife into his belt. "Whatever time I have left, whatever good I can do for some people, that'll be my legacy. This can turn out to be such a beautiful, beautiful thing for the Indians."
The trouble is no one here believes him. After all, the Sioux live about 1,500 miles away and have never had a historic connection to New York State, much less the Catskills or this Ulster County hamlet, which is part of the town of Olive. So instead, many residents say they are convinced that Mr. Fotopoulos, a Manhattan real estate developer, really wants to pave the way for a casino.
"It's insane; never ever has there been anything done to this pristine land," said Harriet Black, who, with her husband, Bob, splits her time between their sign business in Manhattan and their weekend house on Haver Road, next to Mr. Fotopoulos's property. "This is a crime in the deepest sense. It's not man-made crime; it's God and nature crime."
In truth, the chances for a casino are remote, Federal officials say. Even establishing a sovereign Indian nation on Mr. Fotopoulos's property would not be easy. But the fact that Mr. Fotopoulos has widened roads on his property, submitted a subdivision plan and declared that he is this close to clinching the transfer has persuaded many residents that some kind of radical change -- casino, theme park, commercial enterprise, whatever -- is imminent.
As a result, the story has evolved into much more than just the biggest development skirmish in this part of the Catskills since -- well, since never. The fight has been so unexpected, so out of character, that for the first time, residents are now feeling vulnerable, and somewhat powerless, about an idyllic world that they never dreamed would change.
Mr. Fotopoulos, in turn, says he has been surprised, and disappointed, by the reaction.
"How dare anybody not want to help the Indians?" said Mr. Fotopoulos, who bought his property about 40 years ago. "This is an absolute disgrace that people are trying to force me to do with my land what they want to do with the land. Now, I don't want a casino up there. But if they stop me, then I may transfer the whole 300 acres. And I'll say, 'Now let's put a casino.' "
Until recently, Mr. Fotopoulos, who has dabbled in politics in Manhattan and was once branded (unfairly, he says) by The New York Post as one of the city's worst landlords, had never evinced any interest in American Indian affairs.
But last year, a group called the Five Feathers Heritage Group that Mr. Fotopoulos said was affiliated with the Oglala Sioux approached him about donating some land. How and why they picked Mr. Fotopoulos is not clear. But when he learned about the Sioux -- who have an unemployment rate higher than 80 percent -- he said that, yes, he would donate a 54-acre parcel.
With the transaction now almost final, work on a five-acre parking lot could begin this summer, Mr. Fotopoulos said. Eventually, he hopes to invite some Oglala Sioux to live on the land, start a bottled water business, stage mock battles, dig a new lake, build a fort with vending booths. Among other ventures.
At first, Mr. Fotopoulos said he wanted to reap about 45 percent of the profits. But now, he says he wants only the ability to manage the project and, perhaps, a small plaque to commemorate his efforts.
"There is no money for me," he said. "It's money for the Indians."
Whatever Mr. Fotopoulos's intentions, a casino is probably unlikely because of stringent Federal criteria, said Rex Hackler, director of communications for the Interior Department's Bureau of Indian Affairs.
To open a casino on one's own reservation is one thing, but to open one off site -- in another state, halfway around the country -- is unheard of, and hard to fathom. Of the 100 or so applications for off-site casinos since 1988, only two have been approved, and both were adjacent to existing reservations and had tremendous community support, Mr. Hackler said.
"I'd say that this one is as close to impossible as you can get," he said.
Even so, there is plenty of fear and loathing to go around here over whatever the final product will be, because of concerns over traffic and the environment in a watershed area abutting the Ashokan Reservoir.
The subject has inspired so much concern that longtime residents and weekenders from the city have shoved aside traditional tensions over development, forming a rare united front to oppose the project.
They have planted signs that say, "No Camp -- No Theme Park -- No Casino." A citizens' group, Preservation of Olive New York, published its first newsletter in early May. Some residents even rented an airplane last winter to fly over Mr. Fotopoulos's property to take photographs of what they suspected was illegal logging activity. (But the pictures were not very good, said Vincent Barringer, the Olive Town Justice.)
"I think it's unglued a lot of us," said Ellen Iwanowski, who runs the Dream House Bed and Breakfast, just down the road from Mr. Fotopoulos's cabin. "If he goes and gives this piece of property to this Indian nation, and they're a sovereign nation, Harry has nothing to say and neither does anyone else. We're all afraid, I tell you."
Some American Indians also feel ambivalent about Mr. Fotopoulos's plans. Like other wealthy landowners, Mr. Fotopoulos may be more concerned about writing off his taxes ($9,000 a year) than promoting Indian culture, said Victorio Roland Vargas Mousaa, former program planner for American Indian Community House in Manhattan.
"I'm not sure if he's sincere," said Mr. Mousaa, who has visited Mr. Fotopoulos's property. "I've seen it so many times before: people using Native Americans to get out of their tax problems."
Mr. Fotopoulos is working with Arthur Zimiga, a Sioux businessman and retired college administrator, and Michael Sierra, another established member of the Sioux. But the two are not acting on behalf of the tribe, said Chief Harold Dean Salway, president of the Oglala Sioux Tribe.
"They've never approached me on this subject matter, and that's why I've been advised that there could be some questions about misrepresentation," Mr. Salway said.
Mr. Zimiga, one of the founders of a new bottled-water company called Lakota Waters, did not return several telephone calls seeking comment. Mr. Sierra also could not be reached for comment.
At the same time, though, Mr. Salway said the tribe would welcome any gift of land, and any chance for a casino. "The potential could be profound," he said. "It could help bring us out of poverty."
As it stands, there is little indication that the passions will abate soon. At a recent Olive Town Planning Board meeting on the 54-acre subdivision, a crowd of more than 100 people, many glowering, packed a meeting that normally attracts a handful. As Bob Tumasian, one of Mr. Fotopoulos's representatives, and Bob Cross Jr., his surveyor, unfurled some sketches, dozens of people hovered over the table, like generals studying war maps.
Then, as board members expressed frustration about Mr. Fotopoulos's endgame, Mr. Tumasian tried to turn the tables on the skeptics. "There will not be any Indians running around with tomahawks," he said. "There will be a theme park. What seems to be the problem with giving a piece of property to the Native Americans? Is it prejudice?"
A chorus of angry noes crackled. This is a place, after all, where people, some of them hardened protesters with etched memories of the 1960's, have never felt a need to prove their progressive credentials, especially with Woodstock just 30 minutes away.
But the meeting got testy, at times. There were exchanges between Mr. Tumasian and the Planning Board, and blunt comments from the audience demanding that the participants speak up. And while board members promised to scrutinize Mr. Fotopoulos's plan, not everyone felt optimistic about the future.
"It's really hard to imagine," said Douglas Costanzo, a carpenter who fled New York City 20 years ago for what he assumed would be the quiet life, "how you move to a place that you think is far away from the rest of the world, and someone wants to change it into the rest of the world."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A heated session of the Town Planning Board in Olive, N.Y., assessed a man's plan to turn over some of his land to American Indians. The offer came from Harry C. Fotopoulos, upper right, who wants to give property to the Oglala Sioux. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 
Map of New York State highlighting Samsonville: A Samsonville, N.Y. man hopes Indians will start a theme park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: OGLALA SIOUX INDIAN TRIBE OGLALA SIOUX OF SOUTH DAKOTA (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: OGLALA SIOUX INDIAN TRIBE OGLALA SIOUX OF SOUTH DAKOTA (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAMSONVILLE (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; PHILANTHROPY NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); CASINOS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (73%); LAND SUBDIVISION (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: FOTOPOULOS, HARRY C; CHEN, DAVID W HARRY C FOTOPOULOS (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



75 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Gambling Panel to Call for Array of Limits

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 3

 BODY:
After two years spent studying the social and economic effects of the gambling industry's vast growth, a Federal commission completed its work here today and prepared to deliver a list of more than 70 recommendations to President Clinton, Congress, governors and Indian leaders.
Among the proposals are a moratorium on gambling expansion, a ban on college-sports betting and a prohibition against all wagering on the Internet. 
 The nine members of the Federal panel, the National Gambling Impact Study Commission, had to overcome stark differences among themselves in order to give unanimous approval to a sweeping report on the state lotteries, casino gaming, racing and other forms of legal wagering that last year generated revenue of more than $50 billion.
The commissioners found that for all the economic benefits, the boom in wagering had also brought an array of negative consequences, most significantly a rise in problem gambling. But they agreed that the gaming industry would remain a fixture on the American landscape, at least as far as they could see to the horizon.
"It is clear that the American people want legalized gambling and it has already sunk deep economic and other roots in many communities," says their report, which they are to deliver on June 18. "Its form and extent may change -- it may even disappear -- but for the present, it's a reality."
Congress's creation of the commission in 1996 initially caused fear in the casino industry that Federal regulations and new taxes would result. But the report calls for no such measures to be imposed on the major commercial casino operators.
Among the recommendations, however, are a call for states to impose a pause in gambling expansion, as a way of encouraging local governments to review closely the effects of gaming businesses on their communities; a prohibition on all forms of Internet gambling, because of the Net's little-regulated reach; a curtailing of state lottery advertising and new lottery games; closer regulation of the casinos operated on Indian reservations, and a vast array of ways to finance research and treatment of problem gambling.
The commission also recommended "tight restrictions" on political contributions from casino companies, whose ability to prosper is closely tied to licensing and regulatory decisions by state officials; a ban on college-sports wagering, legal now only in Nevada; a ban as well on the unregulated gambling boats that sponsor "cruises to nowhere," and the removal of automated cash machines from casino floors.
None of those restrictions will be realized, of course, unless they are adopted by legislators, and many of the tougher proposals are expected to face fierce political opposition.
"In the real world, two or three recommendations and a couple of observations will get through and in the end be viewed as what this commission contributed," said one member, Richard C. Leone, president of the Century Foundation, a public-policy research institute.
But the commission's most ardent gambling opponent, James C. Dobson, president of the conservative Focus on the Family, said he intended to use his organization's web of radio broadcasts and mailing lists to force lawmakers to respond to the recommendations. "We will work at getting the word out," Mr. Dobson said. "I really don't think this report is going to gather dust."
The commission spent two years and $5 million traveling the country, to tour the back rooms of casinos, see the thousands of workers streaming into and out of the gambling halls on Mississippi's Gulf Coast and the Las Vegas Strip, and hear testimony from hundreds of people on everything from the dangers of compulsive gambling to the economic benefits that legalized betting had brought to Indian reservations.
Yet the commissioners often found it difficult to reach consensus on an industry that may yield billions but also draws strong moral objections from many.
The panel's chairwoman was Kay Cole James, a conservative Republican who is a dean at Regent University, a Virginia institution that was founded by Pat Robertson and bills itself as "America's premier Christian graduate school." Her views were frequently at odds with those of members like J. Terrence Lanni, chief executive of the Las Vegas casino giant MGM Grand.
Over time, though, agreement was struck on a number of issues. Mr. Lanni, for example, surprisingly parted company with other gambling proponents on Wednesday to vote in favor of restricting casino contributions to state and local political campaigns. "This won't sit well with people in my industry," he said. "But I think it's important that we maintain the appearance as well as the substance of integrity."
Despite such accords, critics complained that the commission's effectiveness had ultimately been undermined by unyielding positions among some members. As a result, the critics said, the report is filled with recommendations that are not likely to have much effect.
"They're coming out with lightweight recommendations, no question," said Arnie Wexler, a counselor on compulsive gambling who testified before the commission.
And Tom C. Rodgers, a lobbyist for the Indian gambling industry, called the commission "a lost opportunity." Echoing a view held by others, Mr. Rodgers said the panel could have been more effective had fewer members come to the task with a predisposition on gambling.
"You see this with every commission like this," he said. "People try to form a compromise, but they can't for political reasons."
People on both sides of the gambling debate, meanwhile, were declaring victory. "It's clear that the commissioners came away understanding that there are vast benefits associated with some forms of gambling," said Alan Feldman, a spokesman for the Las Vegas casino company Mirage Resorts. "This whole process represented our opportunity to show government and the public just how legitimately operated our businesses are."
Mr. Feldman conceded, however, that the commission's report would show that "there are areas we need to work on."
Tom Grey, who heads the National Coalition Against Gambling Expansion, said he believed that the report would give his movement much-needed ammunition.
"By getting the commissioners to come out and say that the product -- gambling -- is flawed, gives us fuel to attack," Mr. Grey said. The existence of the commission has "made the industry recognize that they have a problem" with compulsive gambling, he added. "Now gambling will be in the public consciousness along with alcohol, tobacco and drugs."
Still, Mr. Grey concurred with others who said that while the commissioners had studied most of the social and economic issues associated with gambling, they had proved unwilling to recommend anything that might severely affect the earnings of the powerful casino companies.
These critics also said that some of the seemingly tough recommendations either faced uphill political battles or would have little effect in the end. The proposed ban on Internet gambling, for example, is seen as nearly impossible to enforce fully. And two weeks ago, just minutes after the commission addressed a wave of college-sports gambling scandals by voting to recommend that sports books in Las Vegas be prohibited from taking bets on college games, casino officials quickly pointed out that such a proposal was highly unlikely to ever pass the Nevada Legislature.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GAMBLING IMPACT STUDY COMMISSION NATIONAL GAMBLING IMPACT STUDY COMMISSION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GAMBLING IMPACT STUDY COMMISSION NATIONAL GAMBLING IMPACT STUDY COMMISSION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; LOTTERIES; COLLEGE ATHLETICS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; HORSE RACING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY GAMING (95%); CASINOS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); SPORTS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); LOTTERIES (75%); HORSE RACING (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (60%); 

PERSON: PULLEY, BRETT BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



76 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 89 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
LOCKHEED MARTIN TO CUT 2,000 JOBS AT GEORGIA PLANT

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The Lockheed Martin Corporation is cutting 2,000 more jobs at its plant in Marietta, Ga., or nearly 21 percent of its work force there. The company, a military contractor, disclosed the plans yesterday, saying it hopes to make 40 percent of the cuts through early retirement, attrition and transfers. The plant makes the C-130J military transport plane and is the lead developer of the F-22 stealth fighter. A spokesman said the cuts would be across the board, including management. The company laid off 280 workers in January. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (LMT) LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (LMT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; AEROSPACE AND DEFENSE INDUSTRY LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



77 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
NEC SAYS MORE JOB CUTS ARE POSSIBLE AT PACKARD BELL

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The NEC Corporation, Japan's largest maker of personal computers and chips, said yesterday that its unprofitable United States subsidiary Packard Bell NEC Inc. had lost more money than expected in April and May, and that more job cuts could be made at the unit. Packard Bell, based in Sacramento, Calif., was the biggest drag on NEC's performance in the year ending March 31, as slumping sales and the cost of reorganization at the subsidiary caused NEC a record loss of 157.9 billion yen ($1.29 billion). NEC cut Packard Bell's work force by 3,000 and reduced its number of computer models last year in a bid to shrink the subsidiary's losses. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6701 (TSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (97%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (97%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PACKARD BELL NEC INC (X.PBE); NEC CORP (NIPNY) NEC CORP (97%); PACKARD BELL NEC INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PACKARD BELL NEC INC (X.PBE); NEC CORP (NIPNY)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET LAYOFFS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (88%); LABOR FORCE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



78 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
TO SAVE MONEY, MERITOR SAYS IT WILL ELIMINATE 300 JOBS

BYLINE: Dow Jones

 BODY:
Meritor Automotive Inc. said yesterday that it would cut 300 jobs, or just less than 2 percent of its work force, in an effort to save money. Most of the cuts will be in the light vehicle systems unit, where Meritor, a car-parts supplier based in Troy, Mich., will close a sun roof plant and consolidate some other manufacturing operations. The rest will come from the heavy vehicle systems unit, it said. Meritor employs 18,000 people. The revamping is expected to reduce operating costs by $7 million in fiscal year 2000 and by $9 million in fiscal year 2001. Costs associated with the revamping will lower earnings by $17 million, or 25 cents a share, for the quarter ending June 30. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTOR (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (95%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MERITOR AUTOMOTIVE INC (MRA) MERITOR INC (95%); MERITOR AUTOMOTIVE INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERITOR AUTOMOTIVE INC (MRA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



79 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: NEWS ANALYSIS;
Fruit of Miscalculation

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, June 3

 BODY:
From the start, this has been a war of miscalculation.
NATO, led by the Clinton Administration, assumed that a relatively short period of bombing would be enough to cause President Slobodan Milosevic to capitulate over Kosovo. 
 Drawing the wrong lessons from Bosnia, Western officials underestimated the historical and cultural importance of Kosovo to the Serbs.
And the allies badly undervalued the province's political importance to Mr. Milosevic, who rose to power on the promise to protect the Serbs of Kosovo against the Albanian majority.
But today, as he accepted a deal not much better than he was offered before the bombing began 10 weeks ago, Mr. Milosevic seemed to have miscalculated as badly.
The Serbian leader, for his part, expected the NATO alliance to split, particularly as the number of civilian casualties grew. He is unlikely to have thought Bill Clinton would ignore those casualties and even intensify the bombing.
While the alliance's southern tier became frazzled as refugees flowed into Albania and Macedonia and then into Western Europe, the human tide neither destroyed Serbia's impoverished neighbors nor sundered the alliance.
Mr. Milosevic was right in his calculations that NATO did not want to risk a ground invasion of Serbia, whose citizens, no matter how some may revile Mr. Milosevic, seemed willing to die for their country.
While only a ground invasion could sweep him from power, he ultimately came to believe that NATO could continue its comparatively cost-free bombing campaign for many more months, striking civilian targets as well as military ones and utterly devastating Serbia.
With his own losses mounting -- at least 1,200 civilians have died in NATO accidents and NATO estimated today that at least 5,000 Yugoslav soldiers and policemen have died -- Mr. Milosevic clearly decided that now was the moment to end an unequal war and preserve his own power.
He is evidently calculating again. At least for now, he is surviving NATO's war against his country with his power intact.
In a weak political field, he still looks like a titan, and for many in Serbia -- especially the working classes, the old and the poor -- he is likely to retain his aura of mastery. His party is already claiming to have inspired this little nation to a noble resistance against the combined forces of 19 of the world's most advanced nations.
"This is a little nation that resisted for two months against the greatest might that has ever existed in history, and there was no demoralization, no panic, no mass desertions," said Aleksa Djilas, a historian, exaggerating only a little.
"This has shown that Western public opinion has proved less humane than we believed: It was willing to tolerate far higher casualties in the country being attacked than we had assumed, and it was prepared to tolerate far fewer casualities on its own side than we had assumed."
Serbia's weak democratic opposition parties, largely muzzled during the war by censorship, have been eager to say that Mr. Milosevic's problems will really begin after peace is established, once the patriotic fever has passed and people awake to the economic ruin around them.
There is some truth to that, even Mr. Milosevic's supporters agree, as the country faces a hot summer and a cold winter with demolished electrical power stations and heating plants.
The bombs have done enormous damage to the economy, which was already battered by eight years of international sanctions. Billions of dollars of factories and equipment have been smashed, and nearly every important highway or railway bridge has been damaged or destroyed, along with the country's only two oil refineries.
And as long as Mr. Milosevic and his top aides, many of them recently indicted for war crimes, remain in power, it remains to be seen whether Serbia will get any serious reconstruction aid or investment from Western countries or the European Union.
If anything, the West may tighten economic sanctions, increasing the sense of isolation of its relatively cosmopolitan citizens.
Western aid itself -- or the promise of it -- is already being used as a sort of incentive to Serbs to depose Mr. Milosevic, by electoral means or otherwise.
And it is possible that the Yugoslav Army and the police, having withstood NATO's extensive bombing in Kosovo without cracking, will find that Mr. Milosevic has made peace at too cheap a price, discarding their own sacrifice and that of their dead comrades.
Already Vuk Obradovic, a former general who leads a small opposition party, has called for Mr. Milosevic's resignation and asked: "What was the price of this war? And what did it accomplish?"
Those questions have now been echoed by the former Mayor of Belgrade, Nebojsa Covic, who broke with Mr. Milosevic in 1996.
While military casualties have been a state secret, Yugoslav generals have said recently that they were relatively low, estimating that 1,800 people have been killed or wounded badly enough to leave their posts.
But NATO officials, in a response today, estimated that perhaps 5,000 Yugoslav military and police troops have been killed and more than 10,000 wounded -- the first time the allies have provided such figures.
Whatever the number, the report by NATO seems to be another effort to increase the political pressure on Mr. Milosevic from an angry citizenry that may feel betrayed by the deal on Kosovo after so many dead. The Serbs themselves like to speak of their small families, compared to large Albanian ones, and the loss of enough conscript sons could set off spontaneous demonstrations, like the ones recently repressed in Krusevac, Aleksandrovac and Cacak.
While Yugoslav officials tried to minimize the importance of those demonstrations, they also vowed to crush them, and this sort of war weariness in the southern Serbian heartland, where Mr. Milosevic has always found his strength, is likely to have been another important factor in his decision to end the war.
For all Mr. Milosevic's new vulnerabilities, he remains lucky in his fractured, disputatious opposition.
The ultranationalist leader of the Radical Party, Serbia's deputy prime minister, Vojislav Seselj, vowed today to quit the Government if NATO troops enter Kosovo. He will no doubt try to challenge Mr. Milosevic in elections, but most Serbs are not going to find the prospect of even more tension with the world community a politically attractive platform. Once out of power, Mr. Seselj will also find the draconian press laws he favored put to use against him.
And the democrats are too busy either knifing each other or competing for Mr. Milosevic's favors in coalition governments to do him significant harm.
Zoran Djindjic, the prominent leader of the Democratic Party, has probably destroyed his political career in Serbia by fleeing to its sister republic, Montenegro, while others remained in Belgrade under the bombs.
Vuk Draskovic, the leader of the Serbian Renewal Movement and a former leader of the democratic opposition, still commands the largest political following there. He was prominent in pushing for an early peace settlement, and he has his own television station because his party controls the Belgrade municipality.
But Mr. Draskovic is considered flighty, and as he praised the peace accord today, he also made it clear that he would be more than willing to rejoin Mr. Milosevic's Government, especially if Mr. Seselj quits. If so, he could be a useful interlocutor with the West for the indicted President Milosevic.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "The Plan: Key Points"
The swift withdrawal of Yugoslav troops and Serbian special policemen from Kosovo according to a NATO approved timetable.
 
The return of all refugees to their homes.
 
The establishment of a peacekeeping force led by NATO to protect returning refugees.
 
The creation of a U.N.-led interim administration for Kosovo.
 
Eventual autonomy for Kosovo within Yugoslavia.
 
The demilitarization of the Kosovo Liberation Army.
 
The deployment of a small number of Yugoslav uniformed personnel in restricted areas. (pg. A1)
 
"THE TOLL: Losing Troops"
The NATO bombing of Yugoslavia is one of the few military actions after the Vietnam War that produced no American combat casualties.*
 
Lebanon
Aug. '82 to Feb. '84
254
 
Grenada
Oct. to Nov. '83
18
 
Libya
April 10 to16, '86
2
 
Panama
Dec. '89 to Jan. '90
23
 
Persian Gulf
Aug. '90 to March '98, Dec. '98 to present
148
 
Somalia
Dec. '92 to May '93
29
 
Haiti
Sept. '94 to April '96
0
 
Yugoslavia
March to June '99
0
 
*Toll does not include deaths from accidents.
 
(Source: Defense Dept.)(pg. A23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (70%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION WESTERN EUROPE (71%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); HAITI (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); LEBANON (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (70%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HISTORY (78%); POLITICS (77%); REFUGEES (73%); ARMED FORCES (64%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



80 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Procter & Gamble to Trim Jobs and Close Plants

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY

 BODY:
The Procter & Gamble Company is expected to announce next week that it will cut thousands of jobs worldwide, close several underperforming plants and take a huge charge to become more competitive and improve profits, according to analysts and institutional investors who have met with management.
The reorganization will give investors the first detailed look at where Durk I. Jager, the new chief executive at P.&G., is steering the company, which makes Tide detergent, Pampers diapers and Crest toothpaste among other things. 
 The cuts, most of which are expected to take place outside the United States, are intended to streamline P.& G.'s top-heavy management structure and allow the company to compete better in fast-changing and highly competitive global markets.
P.& G. is expected to divide its businesses into seven units, which will be run as global entities instead of as parts of regional divisions. The units will focus on specific product segments, including hair care, laundry and feminine hygiene, and are expected to speed up the company's lethargic product development cycle.
The changes, part of what P.& G. is calling Organization 2005, are part of a plan to focus on research and development instead of geographical expansion. The strategy represents a new direction for the company under Mr. Jager, who took over in January after 29 years with P.&G.
"I think this is a bit of a change in mind-set," said Mark Godfrey, senior analyst with Investco Funds Group in Denver, which holds 1.6 million P.& G. shares. "Before they stuck to a pretty conservative game plan. Durk has come in and shaken things up a little bit."
The reorganization is expected to be announced on Wednesday when executives meet with investors and analysts in New York. The company declined yesterday to comment on any planned job cuts or shift in its business structure.
Investors and analysts said that in addition to the job cuts and plant closings, they expected the company, which has 110,000 employees worldwide, to announce charges of $2 billion to $3 billion related to the reorganization. It would be the first significant revamping since 1993, when the company dismissed thousands of workers, closed dozens of plants and also took huge charges.
Analysts said management would have to justify another round of hefty charges. But the overall reorganization, if well executed, should make the company more competitive and ultimately increase profitability, they said.
"The very strong hint we've been getting from P.& G. is that they will end up being more nimble and getting product to market faster," said Constance Maneaty, an analyst with Bear, Stearns.
P.& G., though still a dominant force in consumer products, has long been accused of having a cumbersome management structure, a slow product development pipeline and a far too conservative global growth plan. Such weaknesses have enabled rivals like Unilever to grow more aggressively globally and smaller competitors like the Clorox Company to respond faster to new product trends. In one high-profile misstep, P.&G. was too slow to come out with new versions of Crest, long the undisputed leader in toothpaste. As a result, Colgate-Palmolive's new brand, Total, now outshines Crest.
Recently, however, P.& G. has begun to show more spunk. It has worked to push more forcefully into international markets. And last year, it introduced Febreeze, a product that removes odors from fabric and has quickly become a juggernaut. What is more, P.& G. is rolling out two products that while not revolutionary, analysts said, represent innovation that has at times been lacking at the company. They are Dryel, a dry-cleaning kit for home use, and Swiffer, an electrostatic mop with with disposable cloth.
Driven by the potential of such new products as well as innovation with its more traditional products, like new features on diapers and new formulas for laundry detergent, P.& G. has said that it expects to lift earnings 12 percent to 14 percent even without a reorganization. Now, "I'd expect that range to ratchet up," said Sally Dessloch, an analyst with J. P. Morgan Securities.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (97%); PG (NYSE) (97%); UNIA (AMS) (58%); UNA (BIT) (58%); UNA (AMS) (58%); UN (NYSE) (58%); ULVR (LSE) (58%); UL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (97%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (97%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (97%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (PG) PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (97%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (PG)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); DENVER, CO, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT LAYOFFS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MFG (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TOILETRIES MFG (89%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (88%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); CONSERVATISM (64%); 

PERSON: DURK I JAGER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



81 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS;
KOSOVO UPDATE

 BODY:

DIPLOMACY
 
* The Yugoslav Government accepted an international peace plan to allow the return of nearly a million refugees to Kosovo.
* President Clinton and European Union leaders cautiously welcomed the development, asking for signs that Yugoslavia would comply.
 
COMBAT
 
* NATO said the 10-week-old air campaign would continue until it was clear the peace plan was being carried out. For only the second time since the air war began there was no air raid alert overnight in Belgrade, but strikes were reported elsewhere early today. 

ON THE WEB
 
Continuous coverage of the conflict is available from The New York Times on the Web: http://www.nytimes.com 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (97%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); REFUGEES (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



82 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: NEW ARMY;
EUROPEAN UNION VOWS TO BECOME MILITARY POWER

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: COLOGNE, Germany, June 3

 BODY:
The leaders of 15 European countries decided today to make the European Union a military power for the first time in its 42-year history, with command headquarters, staffs and forces of its own for peacekeeping and peacemaking missions in future crises like those in Kosovo or Bosnia.
Long an economic giant, the European Union today has a common currency, the euro, in 11 countries. But when it comes to foreign and defense policy, Europe does not even have a telephone number, as Henry A. Kissinger sarcastically observed 25 years ago when he was Secretary of State. 
 All that will change by the end of next year, the 15 leaders vowed today.
By late 2000, according to the plan announced at the European Union summit meeting here, a single foreign and security policy czar will speak for Europe and carry out the military will of European leaders. The move will enable many of the members of NATO, as well as several European nations that are not in the alliance, to mount their own campaigns without America's might.
The European leaders declared: "The union must have the capacity for autonomous action, backed up by credible military forces, the means to decide to use them, and a readiness to do so, in order to respond to international crises without prejudice to actions by NATO."
They echoed language first used by President Jacques Chirac of France and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain six months ago after two crises in the Balkans showed how far Europe still had to go to be taken seriously as a military power, even on its own continent. Neither in Bosnia nor in Kosovo were European countries, whose total armed forces exceed those of the United States in size, able to project military power convincingly enough to halt the violence.
Today, all 15 leaders agreed to absorb the functions of the 10-nation Western European Union, a long-dormant European defense alliance founded a year before NATO in 1948. They said the Western European Union's 60,000-troop force, Eurocorps, would be put at the disposal of the new, more assertive Europe that is taking shape under the European Union. "In that event," they said, "the W.E.U. as an organization would have completed its purpose."
With Germany's 1990 unification acting as a spur to its neighbors to closer unity, the Treaty of European Union, negotiated at the end of 1991, committed the Europeans to a common currency and a common foreign and security policy and defense policy, building on the common market they created in 1957.
They reaffirmed those aspirations in another treaty signed in 1997, and succeeded in launching the euro at the start of this year.
But the common foreign and security policy sputtered along through successive crises in the Balkans in which the Europeans showed little unity or common purpose until the Americans sent in armed forces to help them in Bosnia in 1995.
Now Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, Mr. Chirac, Mr. Blair and the others are determined that Europe should be taken more seriously on the world stage. Part of what is driving them, their advisers say, is concern that the United States, with only 100,000 troops in Europe now compared with three times that many at the end of the cold war, will not indefinitely be willing to pull the fat out of the fire for Europeans who have long since been rich enough to provide for their own defenses.
American diplomats have welcomed Europe's newfound willingness to do more for itself. But they remain skeptical about whether they will actually be willing to spend the billions of dollars it would take to build the stronger European defense pillar that American defense secretaries for decades have been saying they wanted.
Today's declaration by European Union leaders makes clear that they still have a lot of work ahead of them to create the kind of military decision making and planning ability that NATO has had for many years.
Mr. Chirac suggested that the Western European Union's general staff and military committee, both based in a small headquarters in the center of Brussels some distance from NATO's, should be transferred to the European Union and presided over by its new foreign and security policy coordinator.
That could be Javier Solana of Spain, now Secretary General of NATO, whose candidacy for the job was on the leaders' agenda here tonight.
If Mr. Solana is selected, one senior American official said, "We would be very happy."
Gunter Verheugen, a German Government official who has also been suggested for that job, said of the plan to strengthen European defense, "It is not a replacement for the Atlantic partnership, but a significant and necessary complement to it."
The leaders themselves also noted, "The alliance remains the foundation of the collective defense of its member states."
All 10 members of the W.E.U. -- Britain, Belgium, France, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany, and Greece -- already belong to both NATO and the European Union. Denmark does, too, but has only observer status in the smaller European defense organization, as do four other European Union members, Austria, Ireland, Finland and Sweden, which are neutral or nonaligned and do not belong to NATO.
These countries would be able to join future European Union peacekeeping or military operations, but only if they wanted to, the leaders agreed today, saying they would also welcome participation by other European countries.
NATO leaders agreed at their summit meeting in Washington in April on detailed arrangements to lend military headquarters organizations, multinational staffs, and tanks, helicopters and other equipment to the Europeans if they decided to undertake operations the United States prefers to avoid.
But these arrangements exist only on paper so far. In reality, when the NATO allies decided to use air power to try to force Yugoslavia to accept a settlement in Kosovo, only the United States had the hundreds of airplanes to throw into the battle and intelligence satellites and weaponry to mount a campaign with minimal risk to pilots.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (59%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (59%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EUROPEAN UNION (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EURO (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (64%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R TONY BLAIR (50%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



83 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Stalemate on State Budget Eases as Assembly Yields

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 3

 BODY:
Prospects for approving a state budget moved today from abject stalemate to the realm of serious negotiation as Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver agreed to cut his house's spending proposals by $1 billion or more, the first significant movement by any side in three months.
The shift means that the overall budget figure proposed by the Democratic-controlled Assembly is near that of the Republican-majority Senate, though both still want to spend significantly more than Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican. The two houses are close enough that they could soon convene a conference committee to decide how the available money should be spent. 
Mr. Pataki welcomed the Assembly's movement, but he said today that the state remained far from settling a budget.
Democrats have felt under siege over this budget, now 64 days overdue. For months, Mr. Pataki has loudly assailed their proposal as unrealistic and irresponsible, while refusing to get involved in budget negotiations, an unusual stance that was intended to distance him from the looming fiasco of another very late budget.
He made it clear that he felt no pressure to jump-start negotiations and did not mind keeping the government running with a string of emergency spending bills, a stopgap that Democrats disliked because it limits spending to last year's levels.
A new law that requires withholding legislators' paychecks when a state budget is not completed by the deadline of March 31 has begun to exert great personal pressure on some lawmakers, and social service agencies, school districts and hospitals that rely on state money have begun to clamor for some degree of certainty about what they will receive as they prepare their own budgets. Meanwhile, Democrats have hunted without success for a way to avoid a repeat of last year, when Mr. Pataki vetoed well over $1 billion in spending approved by the Legislature, most of it appropriated for Democrats' pet projects.
In January, Mr. Pataki, who said he was determined to limit the increase in the state's budget to last year's inflation rate, proposed a $72.7 billion plan. He sought significant cuts in several programs dear to the Legislature, and particularly Democrats, like Medicaid and aid for public colleges and their students. And he proposed reversing the state's two-year-old commitment to financing prekindergarten classes for 4-year-olds, and the lowering of class sizes in kindergarten through third grade.
In March, the Assembly adopted a plan that was, by the Democrats' estimates, $2 billion higher than the Governor's. Republicans insisted it was actually $4 billion more. The Senate adopted a plan $1.1 billion higher than the Governor's.
Today, Mr. Silver said he had agreed to cut his overall spending plan to $1.1 billion to $1.5 billion over the Governor's plan, suddenly putting the Assembly on the same general terrain as the Senate and nearly eliminating the main obstacle to a conference committee. By the Democrats' estimate, they had reduced their demands by about $1 billion; the Republicans said Mr. Silver had come down by $2 billion or more.
At a news conference, Mr. Silver, clearly angry at the Governor and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, blamed them for reducing allocations for programs he said were needed, and delaying the budget. Mr. Silver, normally a reticent, colorless public speaker, gave an agitated account of the year's budget process, at one point giving a four-minute response to a simple question.
In explaining how the Democrats' retrenchment began with a conversation he had with the Governor late Wednesday, the Speaker charged that Mr. Pataki's exploration of a possible Presidential run, an idea that he abandoned last week, had consumed the Governor's time and attention, leaving no time for state issues.
"Now that his Presidential campaign has come to a halt," Mr. Silver said, "and he's been here, I chose to speak to him and explain to him his characterization of the Assembly budget has always been wrong, but that I was prepared to meet him more than halfway."
Mr. Silver and Mr. Bruno agreed that once the conference committee convenes, a detailed budget can be hashed out in 10 to 14 days, raising the prospect -- all but unimaginable at the start of the week -- that a budget could be passed by the scheduled end of this year's legislative session, on June 16.
But Mr. Pataki tried to douse any high expectations that might be raised by the Democrats' new stance, saying, "We are still very, very far apart."
"I am not encouraged by the fact that we are still more than $1 billion apart in the month of June," he said. "It's just we're no longer $4 billion. It's like, how bad is it? Not quite as bad as it used to be. But it's still not something where I think we can look with a great sense of optimism."
The Governor also reiterated his warning that he viewed even the Senate Republicans' number as too high, and that he would veto items in a budget that large.
The Assembly Democrats want either a tacit commitment from the Governor not to use his veto aggressively, or a deal with the Senate Republicans to try to override any vetoes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Awaiting Albany: Budget '99 -- 65 Days Delinquent"
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said yesterday that he would reduce his proposed budget by more than $1 billion, increasing the possibility that the Senate and Assembly might soon negotiate a budget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); MEDICAID (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); VETO (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; SILVER, SHELDON (SPEAKER); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (71%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



84 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Rich? Don't Get Smug Yet

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Paul Krugman (Op-Ed, June 1) correctly argues that the consumer-led boom in the American economy "may not produce happiness, but it does create jobs." But American growth, impressive as it is, is showing signs of weakness. 
 Two warnings have surfaced: the rise in inflation in April, which may be temporary, and the trade deficit's recent jump to $19.4 billion, as more manufacturing jobs were lost and exports fell.
Spending, and trade, must keep the door open for foreign goods. But another trade war is heating up, and this battle over beef comes on the heels of the banana wars and a steel skirmish. Putting up trade barriers will limit the ability of Americans to buy that extra cellular phone, something to keep in mind as we head for more trade battles and an election year.
 
PAMELA S. FALK
Flushing, Queens, June 1, 1999
 
The writer is a professor of law at Queens College, CUNY. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: QUEENS COLLEGE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: QUEENS COLLEGE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); INFLATION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); JOB CREATION (88%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (88%); EXPORT PRICES (87%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); TRADE DISPUTES (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%); 

PERSON: FALK, PAMELA S (PROF); KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



85 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Rich? Don't Get Smug Yet

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Paul Krugman (Op-Ed, June 1) points out some of the pros and cons of increased spending but fails to mention the environmental costs. Larger cars, larger houses and larger closets with more clothes mean increased resource extraction, processing and conversion. Even if the depletion of natural resources were not problematic, the act of depletion can wreak havoc on the environment. Gold mining, for example, can leave toxic wastelands. The manufacture and the disposal of many goods create contaminants. So as consumption rises, so do the rates of cancer and a host of other health problems.
 
MARGRETHE WINSLOW
Oakland, Calif., June 1, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Arline Simon)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); NATURAL RESOURCES (85%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: WINSLOW, MARGRETHE; KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



86 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE OVERVIEW;
MILOSEVIC YIELDS ON NATO'S KEY TERMS; 50,000 ALLIED TROOPS TO POLICE KOSOVO

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, June 3

 BODY:
On the 72d day of NATO's air war against Yugoslavia, President Slobodan Milosevic accepted an international peace plan today to end the Kosovo conflict and allow nearly one million ethnic Albanian refugees to return to what is left of their homes.
After forcing most of those refugees to flee from Kosovo and enduring thousands of Serbian military and civilian deaths, Mr. Milosevic and the Serbian Parliament agreed rapidly to all key NATO demands after envoys from Russia and other European nations brought what they made clear was the best offer he was going to get from NATO. 
 In a swift retreat that may spell political trouble for him down the road, Mr. Milosevic agreed to withdraw all Yugoslav military and police forces from Kosovo within seven days and allow 50,000 foreign troops under a United Nations flag -- many of them from NATO and under NATO command -- to police the province.
That withdrawal could begin as early as Sunday, said Goran Matic, a minister in the Yugoslav Government, once military leaders of both sides agreed on the details. What is important for Belgrade is that the rebel Kosovo Liberation Army not be allowed to fill the vacuum and flood into Kosovo, he said, and that NATO keep its commitment to "demilitarize" the rebels.
While NATO has emphasized the need for a strong force to prevent the Yugoslav President from reneging on his commitments, Belgrade officials and some Western diplomats here believe that its real difficulties will come from the Kosovo Liberation Army, which has received NATO support and is unlikely to give up its ambitions for independence.
Initial public reactions in the West, which appeared to be taken by surprise by the sudden prospect of victory, were cautious, and it was not immediately clear when or through what means the conflict will be brought to a conclusion. Western spokesmen said the Serbs must begin a "credible and verifiable withdrawal" from Kosovo before the bombs would stop, but NATO's bombing campaign slackened noticeably today.
The peace proposals accepted today were negotiated between NATO and Russia, which was acting for Belgrade. Once the Russian envoy, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, agreed on the basics of the deal with the American Deputy Secretary of State, Strobe Talbott, Mr. Milosevic -- who was indicted for war crimes last week -- clearly felt that he had no choice but to accept them or endure further destruction.
Under the proposals, fewer than 1,000 uniformed Serbs will be allowed to re-enter Kosovo, to guard key border posts and Serbian holy sites, as a symbol of Serbian and Yugoslav sovereignty over the southern province. But there will be little substance left to Belgrade's assertion of sovereignty. Kosovo will get "substantial autonomy" within Yugoslavia but for all intents and purposes, will have little to do with the Serbian or Yugoslav state.
An interim international authority will supervise the running of Kosovo and the establishment of new democratic institutions and elections, the return of all refugees and the rebuilding of the province. In the meantime, there will be new negotiations between Serbian and ethnic Albanian leaders to work out a long-term political settlement.
But in what Belgrade pointed to as a victory, the proposals accepted today do not propose a new examination of Kosovo's sovereignty after three years or any referendum on that topic, as did the draft proposals accepted by the Albanian side only in Rambouillet, France, in March. It was the Serbian refusal to accept those accords that led to the opening of the NATO air war on March 24, the sharp acceleration in the Serbian effort to push the Albanians out of Kosovo and the tidal wave of refugees into surrounding countries.
Yugoslav officials also said their resistance had forced NATO to find a solution within the United Nations and with the participation of the Russians. And they emphasized the firm international guarantees of Serbia's sovereignty over Kosovo, unlike the temporary sovereignty proposed at Rambouillet.
But there was also important nationalist criticism of Mr. Milosevic and this deal. The Radical Party and its leader, Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj of Serbia, voted against the proposals in Parliament, and Mr. Seselj vowed to quit the Government the day NATO troops enter Kosovo.
A former President of Yugoslavia, the nationalist historian Dobrica Cosic, called the vote "an extorted decision" and the proposals "a post-modernist packaging for the occupation of Kosovo." In an interview, Mr. Cosic, whose views on Kosovo carry much weight here, called Parliament's acceptance "a matter of survival, and not a matter of freedom and rights."
But there was no immediate political threat to Mr. Milosevic. The weak democratic opposition parties supported the move, and Vuk Draskovic, who was fired as Yugoslav Deputy Prime Minister during the war, praised the vote and said he would be willing to rejoin the Government, especially if Mr. Seselj quit.
Some confusion remains over who will lead the international force and over its exact makeup. The Russians are still insisting that their forces going to Kosovo will not be under NATO command, and have not yet agreed to send troops. The agreement accepted today by Mr. Milosevic says the forces will be under the auspices of the United Nations, but European and American officials say the troops will in fact be commanded by NATO.
Nor was it immediately clear when a military-to-military text would be negotiated, or when the agreement would be codified into a United Nations Security Council resolution.
But the deal may finally bring some peace, if not reconciliation, to Kosovo. A year ago, the province contained some 2.2 million people, about 90 percent of them ethnic Albanian.
Today, Kosovo is eerily depopulated, with nearly one million Albanians now living abroad as refugees and several hundred thousand more displaced from their homes. As many as 5,000 ethnic Albanians, NATO has charged, have been killed by the Serbs. Thousands of Serbian women and children have also fled the province, and it is likely that many Serbs will not want to remain in a Kosovo once their army and police have withdrawn.
With many thousands of ethnic Albanian shops and homes burned and looted, and basic services like road transport, electricity and water supplies destroyed or heavily damaged by the air war, the job of reconstructing Kosovo will also be enormous.
And it is likely that foreign troops and aid workers will occupy the province for many years to come, at a cost of billions of dollars.
After talks this morning between Mr. Milosevic and the diplomatic team of Mr. Chernomyrdin and President Martti Ahtisaari of Finland, who represented the European Union and articulated NATO's views, the state news agency Tanjug said simply, "Yugoslavia accepts the document for peace brought by the highest representatives of the European Union and Russia."
The statement continued, "The three sides unanimously agreed that commitment to peace was of vital importance, not only for Yugoslavia, but for the whole region and all of Europe."
Earlier this morning, the Serbian Parliament accepted the proposals on which party leaders had been briefed by Mr. Milosevic the night before. The Parliament voted 136 for and 74 against. Presumably, the 74 against included most of Mr. Seselj's 80 deputies.
Afterward, Mr. Seselj was blunt. "For sure, we will not stay in the Serbian Government from the moment that troops from aggressor countries, particularly the U.S.A., enter Kosovo," he said. And he warned that NATO troops "will not feel safe in Kosovo."
But Mr. Draskovic was ebullient, calling the vote "a great day for the Serbian nation and all the citizens of Yugoslavia." He said, "The Serbian Parliament today declared peace, and the beginning of peace must be the beginning of a new policy of radical economic and democratic reform."
Serbian state television tonight did not mention Mr. Seselj's opposition or quote him at all, but it did give Mr. Draskovic time to praise Mr. Milosevic.
There was no statement from Mr. Milosevic himself. But the television anchorman recited a long statement from Mr. Milosevic's Socialist Party praising the Serbian nation and the international guarantees of Yugoslavia's "integrity and sovereignty."
"This decision brings us the cessation of the criminal bombing, of the killing of the people, and it brings us peace," the statement said. "The role of the United Nations is being affirmed in accordance with the U.N. Charter. Through the unity of the people and through the heroism of our army and our police, we have defended the country from a vastly superior enemy who committed aggression against our country with the goal of annulling our integrity and sovereignty."
There was also a statement from the Yugoslav United Left party of Mr. Milosevic's wife, Mirjana Markovic.
"We are proud of the heroic resistance of our people," it said, adding that "in these circumstances we feel we can accept conditions" laid down by the world. "We are looking for the end of the bombing, and the great renewal," it said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Slobodan Milosevic, above, at a meeting with mediators yesterday. (Associated Press); President Clinton briefly assessed the developments. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); President Slobodan Milosevic, left, in Belgrade yesterday with Viktor S. Chernomydin of Russia, directly opposite him, before Yugoslavia accepted the peace plan for the Kosovo conflict. (Associated Press)(pg. A20)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS; KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS; KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIA; SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US WORLD WAR II (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (76%); POLITICS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); WAR CRIMES (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); INDICTMENTS (60%); POLICE FORCES (58%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



87 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: AUTOS ON FRIDAY/ Safety;
More Trucks on Road: Should Rules Change?

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
DRIVERS of cars may have the impression that there are more big trucks competing with them for space on the highway, and recent Government statistics confirm that their perception is correct. And although road fatalities are down over all, those involving heavy trucks are fairly level, at more than 5,000 a year.
A booming economy combined with a shift to just-in-time deliveries has meant a boom for the truck business. The chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, James E. Hall, pointed out in recent testimony that the industry is producing about 220,000 heavy trucks annually, up from 130,000 a decade ago. The Transportation Secretary, Rodney E. Slater, said that the number of miles traveled by trucks had increased 25 percent in the last four years, and the American Trucking Associations said last month that mileage could rise 15 percent this year alone. 
 Trucks are getting safer, but not fast enough to keep pace with their increased use. Large trucks were involved in fatal crashes at a rate of 2.5 for each 100 million miles traveled in 1997, the most recent year for which full statistics are available. That is down by more than half from 20 years earlier, when the rate was 5.4 for each 100 million miles. (In comparison, the rate for cars in that period fell to 1.9 from 3.5.)
But truck miles traveled more than doubled in that period, to 191 billion miles from 95 billion miles, so the absolute number of fatalities did not change much. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, part of the Transportation Department, said late last month that fatalities totaled 5,398 in 1997, of whom nearly all were in a car, van, pickup or other light vehicle, not in the heavy truck. The preliminary number for 1998 is 5,302. (The figures do not measure whether the accident was the truck's fault.)
Mr. Slater, speaking a day before a Congressional hearing that included testimony critical of his department's oversight, was announcing a goal of reducing truck fatalities by 50 percent over 10 years. He had good reason to try to beat Congress to the punch: A variety of critics, including his own department's inspector general, trace safety shortcomings to his department's inspectors, who these critics say seemed better suited to watching the large, staid, regulated trucking companies of the past than to to keeping an eye on the highly competitive, fast-moving swarms of small operators that dominate the roads now.
The industry is in such flux that the regulators have trouble keeping track of it. Nearly 500,000 trucking companies are registered with the department, but regulators say they think that up to 30 percent have merged or gone out of business.
A study released last week by Norman Y. Mineta, who was chairman of the House Transportation Committee when he represented a California district, said that companies less than three years old had higher crash rates and more safety problems. Tens of thousands of companies are less than three years old. The Transportation Department had asked Mr. Mineta to do the study.
Inspectors spent many hours trying to educate companies on safety procedures and Transportation Department regulations, said Kenneth Mead, the inspector general. "Partnership, collaboration and education went too far," he said, with the department often agreeing to forgo the collection of fines or other enforcement measures in exchange for promises to do better. But he said a significant minority of companies "had no interest in being educated."
One change announced by Mr. Slater is a limit on negotiated settlements and "wrist slaps," and an emphasis on bigger fines.
 Not everyone agrees that harsh penalties should replace education and warnings. The American Trucking Associations, reacting to a slight decline in deaths in 1998 from the year before, said this showed the success of "government partnership in safety education and outreach programs."
 The Government, though, is moving to get tougher. Mr. Slater said another goal was to double the number of "compliance reviews," or in-depth examinations of trucking companies, done by each investigator.
The department is also trying to streamline the legal framework for ordering bad carriers to shut down. Federal law used to require that the department show a company was an "imminent hazard" before it could bar the company, but Mr. Mead said the department never had a working definition of imminent hazard. A law that took effect this spring changes the standard to "unfit," and the department is trying to establish a regulation that defines the term.
Joan Claybrook, a former administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration who is now president of Public Citizen, a nonprofit advocacy group, said the problem was that the Transportation Department lacked the research and data base to make good decisions, as well as "a capacity to plan or meet deadlines for issuance of safety standards." Many safety advocates outside the department want truck regulation moved to the traffic safety administration from its current home in the Office of Motor Carriers, which they say shares the perspective of the trucking industry.
Mr. Slater has resisted the change and pointed to an improving level of safety which, he said, can be made better yet. Safety experts say that the biggest improvement in the last few years has been requiring a commercial driver's license under a national system. That prevents truckers from carrying licenses issued by several states and accumulating violations on each.
But Kenneth Wykle, the Federal Highway Administrator, said regulators had yet to use violations accrued on personal licenses, like speeding or drunken driving, as a basis for revoking a commercial license. Truckers involved in fatal accidents are often discovered to have such violations, he said.
The biggest unsolved question is hours-of-service regulations. That, said Mr. Mead, is "tied directly to fatigue." There are limits on how many hours a trucker can drive and how many he can be on duty, including loading time, but they are widely flouted, partly because drivers are paid by the mile.
"We're dealing with firms that create an environment or a culture where drivers are expected to drive to exhaustion," he said.
Experts say that the problem varies by the size of the company. Big companies with deep pockets may fear liability suits and follow the rules more closely; small ones often don't. But the industry is heavy with small companies. Mr. Mead said that 317,000 companies have six or fewer tractors; only 2,800 have more than 100 tractors.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two fatal accidents on one day, May 26: Left, in Montgomery County, Va., a trucker was charged with involuntary manslaughter after his rig crossed a median and killed an elderly couple from Liverpool, N.Y. Above, a van driver died in Worcester, Mass., after vehicles swerved to avoid debris. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WORCESTER, MA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (83%); NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (83%); AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSOCIATIONS (56%); AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSOCIATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (83%); NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (83%); AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSOCIATIONS (56%); AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSOCIATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING STATISTICS (90%); TRUCK SAFETY (90%); TRUCKING (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (79%); TRUCK DRIVERS (79%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (79%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L JAMES E HALL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



88 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 29; Column 2; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 2472 words

HEADLINE: WEEKEND EXCURSION;
Colonial Myth And Reality

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
Thomas Jefferson was taking questions from the audience, all reverential, about the Louisiana Purchase, his interest in wine making and the men who shaped his mind. (Sir Isaac Newton, Sir Francis Bacon and John Locke, he replied.) Skittish about breaking the weird decorousness of the event at Colonial Williamsburg, which was a supposed conversation with the retired third President, I nonetheless raised my hand and asked if Jefferson had changed his opinion about the newspapers of his day after they printed the "scurrilous rumors" about Sally Hemings, the slave with whom he is thought by many modern historians, on the basis of DNA evidence, to have fathered a child.
"Is that still continuing?" replied the smiling Jefferson, the actor Bill Barker, as the audience laughed. Playing to type and historical accuracy, Jefferson then said, "I never made answer on it publicly, and I will not do so today." 
 He added, in a soft Virginia drawl, that he was happier since giving up newspapers in his retirement -- during Jefferson's Presidency, the papers went big with the Hemings scandal -- but then said, paraphrasing Jefferson's most famous defense of freedom of the press, that he would rather have "a nation with newspapers and no government than a nation with government and no newspapers."
The audience broke into enthusiastic applause, as if a President himself had spoken.
For three days this spring, my husband and I and our two children, ages 9 and 5, wandered around Colonial Williamsburg, the Virginia "living history" museum built by John D. Rockefeller Jr., which I had anticipated as another Disneyland. Instead, I found it genuinely historically interesting, if sometimes hokey, with a new emphasis on the slaves who made up more than half the town's population in the 18th century.
Like the study of American history itself, the 18th-century capital of the Virginia colony has changed in its 65 years of restoration from a sanitized celebration of the white planter elite -- even in 1981 the historian Mike Wallace wrote that "it embodies a vision of total social order" -- to a more real, and not always politically correct, evocation of the nastier past. A 1994 re-enactment of a slave auction, for example, caused outrage among some blacks.
 
Untold Stories
This year's theme at Williamsburg, "Enslaving Virginia," offers the most extensive programming yet on the town residents whose stories were largely unknown to tourists until the 1970's, when a new generation of Williamsburg historians began insisting on their inclusion. Since 1998, Williamsburg has organized its programs around four rotating "Days in History." And if you are there on the day that is supposed to be Nov. 17, 1775, when Lord Dunmore, the colony's governor, offered freedom to any slave who sided with the British crown, it is possible to spend almost all of your time, from 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., in history walks, talks and re-enactments focused on slavery.
In between, you can stumble into conversations with some of Williamsburg's 100 or so "character interpreters," actors who engaged us in interactive, impromptu and slightly embarrassing theater often meant to teach the unsavory reality of the past.
"Terrible news about town today, you have probably heard," one actor playing a Colonial Williamsburg resident announced when we approached him and a cluster of patriots on Duke of Gloucester Street, the main street.
"Negroes with arms -- can you believe it?" another asked.
"A wise move, to free the servants and slaves of your enemy," the first said, referring to Lord Dunmore.
Stepping in, which seemed to be what I was supposed to do, I asked how people who spoke of freedom could own slaves.
"God himself has put them here to be slaves," a third actor said.
And then, making sure we got the point, the first said, "You cannot free such valuable property."
But earlier we had been to the Courthouse for the re-enactment of several trials and an unpleasant moment when Williamsburg's desire to be honest about its history with blacks collided with 1999 sensitivities. An audience of tourists filled the spectators' benches as actors playing a bailiff, an obnoxious defendant and a judge argued over a case.
At one point the judge asked for three volunteers from the courtroom to inspect some land in dispute. The tourists all volunteered eagerly, amused to be playing 18th-century colonists. The bailiff selected three, two of them young black men.
But the judge rejected the two, because they were black. "Free Negroes can't serve!" barked the defendant, underscoring the point, as the two 20th-century blacks sat down, looking embarrassed. When I asked Williamsburg about the incident after I got back, Stephen Elliott, the vice president for education, winced, saying that the scene had been cut from the trial last year and that it shouldn't have happened.
 
Choices for Visitors
We arrived in town, a seven-hour drive from New York City, halfway through another of Williamsburg's "days in history," May 15, 1776, when the colonists declared their independence. We were unaware of this until we were efficiently educated by a Williamsburg Inn concierge, who presented us with the Visitor's Companion, a newspaper for tourists, which listed a daunting buffet of all Colonial Williamsburg events for the week. Looking at it was like trying to decide what courses to take in college, but our concierge quickly circled what she thought was best for us and the children.
We weren't staying at the inn proper, the behemoth white-columned institution of choice for visiting heads of state (Williamsburg was the site of an economic summit conference for the world's industrial powers in 1983) but at its lower-priced and modern Providence Hall Wing, which is recommended for families. There, the rooms are bigger and decorated with the usual wing chairs, but not with antiques. We had a balcony that looked over a duck pond, and were just a short walk from the inn, where we ate breakfast.
The next morning we walked the five minutes to the historic district for an orientation tour, led by a guide, Jerry Hedgepeth, who pointed out attractions like the Wyeth House, where Jefferson went to law school, and advised us that "if you haven't been here before, don't try to kill yourself."
He also gave a brief history lesson: In 1699 the Virginia capital moved from Jamestown to Williamsburg, a planned city built around a town common, Market Square, and anchored by the Capitol building at one end and the College of William and Mary at the other. Although Virginia's capital moved to Richmond in 1780, Williamsburg was still intact in 1926, when Rockefeller began the restoration that would eventually cost $68 million. Today there are more than 500 restored or reconstructed buildings and 90 acres of gardens and greens.
One of the first things I noticed was that Williamsburg, though bucolic, was not pristine; paint was peeling off many of the white clapboard houses, some of the grass was scruffy and sandy dirt covered the main streets. And yet earlier criticism of the town by historians focused on its absurd perfectness. When I got back home, I called Cary Carson, Williamsburg's vice president for research, who told me that Williamsburg has in fact worked recently to make the town less precious.
"We used to paint all of the buildings at the same time," he said. "But nobody now and nobody then painted their property from end to end." He added that sand is now brought in to cover up the 20th-century blacktop of Duke of Gloucester Street and that some of the lawn-mowing is done by grazing sheep.
After the tour, we went to some of the trades shops, popular with the children, like that of the printer and the wig maker, who told us that the hairpieces favored by 18th-century gentlemen were "beastly uncomfortable, but they were fashion."
In the afternoon I went on "Enslaving Virginia," a one-hour history walk with a guide, Harvey Bakari, who ran through a quick general history of slavery, then described how slaves did the invisible work, lost to history, that made Williamsburg possible. He concluded that "the system of slavery would cause the colony to live with a contradiction, the contradiction of liberty and bondage."
The only problem, and it was hardly Mr. Bakari's fault, was that there were few remnants on the walk to illustrate his points; the slaves lived in Williamsburg's outbuildings behind the big houses and left behind no furniture and almost no belongings. Although slaves may well have spent as much time as anyone else laboring behind the scenes in the town's grand buildings, their identities were invisible in the Governor's Palace or the Courthouse.
We ate most of our meals in Williamsburg's not-cheap restaurants, where the waitresses wore period garb and the Colonial-style food was mediocre, although no doubt better than what people really ate in the 18th century. The best was Christiana Campbell's Tavern, a reconstruction of the original, where George Washington dined.
I had scallop and oyster pot pie and was startled when an actress playing Mrs. Campbell materialized in front of us, asking how we liked our dinner. The real Mrs. Campbell was described not very pleasantly by an 18th-century traveler as "a little old Woman, about four feet high; & equally thick, a little turn up Pug nose, a mouth screw'd up to one side." The actress was younger and taller, but her odd little dinner performance proved how fluid, and alive, history is.
Today the contradictions of Jefferson on slavery are as riveting as they were in his time. Just as we imagined the real Christiana Campbell in her tavern, we could imagine the real Jefferson arguing in the House of Burgesses, a part of the reconstructed Capitol that nonetheless was compelling to see. History by definition is an act of the imagination, especially for children. Williamsburg helps it take flight.
 
Stepping Back Into the 1700's (With Some Modern Comforts)
Here is information about visiting Colonial Williamsburg:
 
Colonial Williamsburg
ADDRESS: Colonial Williamsburg, Box 1776, Williamsburg, Va., 23187-1776, (800) 447-8679 or (757) 220-7645. Web sites are www.history.org and www. colonialwilliamsburg.org.
ADMISSION: A Patriot's Pass ($35; $20 for children 6 to 12) provides admission and parking for a year, including entry to all exhibition buildings, like the Capitol, the Courthouse and the Governor's Palace; discounts on concerts and plays, and entry to 18th-century homes open to the public, including the Peyton Randolph House and the George Wythe House. The Colonist's Pass ($31; $18 for children) is good for two consecutive days and includes all basic admission privileges along with the Governor's Palace. It does not include parking, which costs $6. The one-day basic admission ($27; $16 for children) includes the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Folk Art Center, the DeWitt Wallace Gallery and all exhibition buildings in the historic area except the Governor's Palace. It does not include parking. All packages include an orientation walk and are free for children under 6. And all allow visitors to wander into any of the Colonial trade sites. Other packages are available at the Visitor Center and at ticket offices around the historic center.
HOURS: 9:30 A.M. to 5 P.M. daily at most sites.
SPECIAL PROGRAMS: The theme at Williamsburg this year is "Enslaving Virginia," focusing on slavery and how historical events affected the people who lived in Williamsburg, especially the slaves, who made up 52 percent of the population. "Am I Not a Man and a Brother: Abolition and Anti-Slavery in the Early Chesapeake" is an exhibition on how the abolition and anti-slavery movements found expression in the decorative arts and in the printed word; through Jan. 2, in the DeWitt Wallace Gallery. Four rotating "Days in History" programs focus on events on a particular day in the 18th century. Programs today and Tuesday use Nov. 17, 1775, "The Sword Is Drawn: Lord Dunmore's Proclamation," with the focus on armed conflict. Tomorrow and Wednesday are May 15, 1776, "Virginia Declares Independence." Sunday is May 8, 1769, "Rule, Britannia," when most Virginians believed that problems could be worked out between the colonies and England. Monday and Thursday are April 29, 1775, "The Gathering Storm," when antagonism between the British and the colonies has reached a boiling point.
 
Where to Stay
WILLIAMSBURG INN, PROVIDENCE HALL, COLONIAL HOUSES, WILLIAMSBURG LODGE, WILLIAMSBURG WOODLANDS and GOVERNOR'S INN are owned by Colonial Williamsburg. Summer rates range from $133 to $330. Information: (800) 447-8679 or (757) 229-1000.
COURTYARD BY MARRIOTT, 470 McLaws Circle, Williamsburg, (757) 221-0700. A double room in June is $129 on weekdays, $149 on weekends.
MOTEL 6, 3030 Richmond Road, Williamsburg, (757) 565-3433. A double room in June is $52 on weekdays, $56 on weekends.
Where to Eat
KING'S ARMS, CHOWNING'S, SHIELDS and CHRISTIANA CAMPBELL'S TAVERN are on the premises of Colonial Williamsburg. For reservations: (800) 447-8679 or (757) 229-2141. Dinner entrees from $17 to $26.
THE TRELLIS, Merchant's Square, Williamsburg, (757) 229-8610. Upscale California casual. Dinner entrees from $18 to $25.
 
How to Get There
PLANE: Williamsburg is 150 miles south of Washington, midway between Richmond and Norfolk off Interstate 64. The Newport News-Williamsburg International Airport is 20 minutes from Williamsburg and is served by United Express, (800) 241-6522, and US Airways, (800) 428-4322. Round-trip flights between La Guardia or Newark and Newport News, changing at Dulles Airport in Washington, range from $226 (a 14-day advance reservation and a Saturday stay over) to $616 (last-minute ticket). US Airways and its US Airways Express offer nonstop flights between La Guardia and Norfolk International Airport, 50 miles southeast of Williamsburg, for $226 round trip.
TRAIN: Amtrak service to Williamsburg is available twice daily. The trip from New York to Williamsburg is eight and a half hours; round-trip fares begin at $144. Information: (800) 872-7245.
CAR: Colonial Williamsburg is a 45-minute drive from either Richmond or Norfolk on I-64 (exit 238). After exiting, look for green and white signs to the Visitor Center. After purchasing an admission pass, you may take the shuttle bus or walk to the historic area. Rental cars are available from the major chains at the airport or through Colonial Rent-a-Car, which has an office at the train station, (757) 220-3399.
 
What to Read
"AMERICAN SPHINX: THE CHARACTER OF THOMAS JEFFERSON," by Joseph J. Ellis (Vintage, 1998).
"THE CLASSIC SLAVE NARRATIVES," edited and with an introduction by Henry Louis Gates Jr. (Mentor, 1987).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Speak historically, but carry a big umbrella: A Colonial Williamsburg staff member in period costume. (Timothy Wright for The New York Times)(pg. E29); The main street in Colonial Williamsburg, with one of the shops, left, and visitors, some of whom decide to try the transportation of the day. (Timothy Wright for The New York Times)(pg. E37)
 
Map showing the location of Williamsburg. (pg. E37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (98%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG (VA); UNITED STATES (98%); VIRGINIA, USA (98%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); HISTORY (89%); SLAVERY (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); EVIDENCE (74%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); CHILDREN (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); CITY LIFE (62%); CITIES (62%); DNA (55%); 

PERSON: BUMILLER, ELISABETH; JEFFERSON, THOMAS (1743-1826) JAY ROCKEFELLER (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



89 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Factory Orders, Minus Planes, Rise 5th Time in Six Months

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
Orders placed with manufacturers other than airplane makers rose in April, suggesting that a record peacetime expansion may be picking up speed.
Factory orders rose five-tenths of a percent during April, when often- volatile demand at the Boeing Company and other aircraft makers is excluded, making it the fifth increase in the last six months, Commerce Department statistics showed today. Overall orders fell 1.2 percent during the month after declining six-tenths of a percent in March. 
 The report could give Federal Reserve policy makers fresh reasons to raise interest rates. Still, some analysts said such a move might not be warranted. While "there's nothing to suggest the economy is cooling off," reports do not suggest the economy is growing fast enough to ignite inflation, said Gary Thayer, chief economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis.
In a separate report, initial jobless claims rose 4,000, to 305,000, last week, the Labor Department said. This year, claims have averaged 305,000 a week, lower than 1998's average of 316,000, suggesting that companies continue to hire workers.
The employment picture is helping lift demand for everything from new clothing to toys to electronics.
"I don't see any sign of slowing down in consumer spending -- there are still robust numbers across the board," said Steve Paspal, senior analyst at Sovereign Asset Management, a unit of John Hancock Funds.
Nonmanufacturers, such as banks, farms and retailers, said in May that business continued to grow, although at a slower pace than April, according to the National Association of Purchasing Management's monthly index released today. The index declined to 60 from 64 in April, largely because of declines in growth in new orders. An index above 50 indicates more businesses reported improved conditions than reported declining ones.
The report on nonmanufacturers comes two days after the association reported a continuing recovery in manufacturing in May. Its factory index rose in May to its highest level since October 1997 and held above 50 for a fourth consecutive month after eight months of below-50 readings.
Edward Gramlich, a Fed governor, said today that the factory index "raises concerns" as policy makers ponder whether to raise interest rates at their next meeting, which will be on June 29-30.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Factory Orders" plots manufacturer's total new orders, from Nov. 1997 through April 1999. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (84%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NEW ORDERS (79%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); RETAILERS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



90 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
$253 MillionSanctions Sought in Beef Fight With Europe

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: GENEVA, June 3

 BODY:
A trans-Atlantic fight over hormone-treated beef intensified today when United States and Canadian officials asked the World Trade Organization to approve $253 million in retaliatory trade sanctions and the European Union countered by demanding arbitration that it hopes will lower the overall amount.
Like a recent dispute over bananas, the quarrel over beef reflects American anger over the failure of the 15-nation European Union to abide by decisions of the trade organization, which makes the rules of international commerce. The trade arbiter has said that the European preference for bananas grown in former colonies is illegal. 
 Faced with the European Union's refusal to revise its banana-import policy, the Clinton Administration imposed $191.4 million in tariffs on European products. It is seeking a further $202 million in 100 percent tariffs on a new range of European goods because the European Union has refused to lift its ban on beef produced in the United States, as it was supposed to do by May 13 under a previous trade organization ruling.
The Canadians asked for $51 million in sanctions because their beef is also blocked from the enormous European market.
The trade organization first found the beef ban illegal in 1997 on the ground that food safety concerns cannot be used to restrict trade without a specific finding of a health risk.
As in the bananas case, European Union officials invoked the right to a review by a trade organization arbitration panel and are expected to argue that the United States beef trade is worth only half the claimed yearly losses.
The European Trade Commissioner, Sir Leon Brittan, said today that the trade bloc would seek a significant reduction, arguing that the United States figure of $202 million was "grossly excessive." He said, "They haven't suffered that amount of damage."
In declining to meet the May deadline, the European Union issued preliminary findings from a new scientific study that said that one growth-promoting hormone could cause cancer. Ian Wilkinson, deputy head of the European Union's mission to the trade organization in Geneva, said 17 studies are expected to be done by the end of the year.
Meantime, the dispute goes to a three-member arbitration panel that under the trade organization's rules must decide by July 12 on the amount of trade sanctions. Only then will the trade organization permit the United States and Canada to impose them.
However, signaling a new area of dispute, the Europeans seek a final list of products that will be penalized before sanctions are imposed, a request Washington opposes.
An initial list, which included pork, Roquefort cheese, truffles and mineral water, was published on March 25 in the Federal Register. But Rita Hayes, the United States envoy to the trade organization, said today that "the final list of sanctions will not be drawn up until we have W.T.O. authorization" -- after arbitration is completed.
She said that although the United States cattle industry had reported $500 million in lost business annually, Washington asked for a lower amount because "we felt this was a figure that would represent the amount of damages we are looking for."
Efforts by the two sides to arrive at a compromise failed when European Union officials would not commit to lifting the ban eventually. Then, after the May 3 release of preliminary findings that supported the United States position, the consumer affairs director for the European Commission declared that it would never lift the beef barrier. "There has never been a comparable statement from anyone in the E.U. contradicting this statement," Ms. Hayes said today.
The United States has offered to label its beef exports as produced in this country, but that suggestion has foundered in part because the whole area of altered or adulterated foods is highly sensitive. One consequence of the "mad cow" disease outbreak in Britain three years ago was that beef consumption in Europe plummeted. More recently, a scandal over Belgian poultry and other products that could be laced with the highly toxic chemical dioxin has reinforced fears about the food trade.
Both sides in the beef dispute have agreed to have scientists look at the evidence in the European Union study that was released last month. But United States officials say they have produced no new data or findings that the six hormones at issue can cause cancer. "There are no health risks from U.S. beef," Ms. Hayes said, citing conclusions by World Health Organization experts last February that three of the hormones, which occur naturally in animals, do not pose health risks.
In the United States, 63 percent of all cattle and 90 percent of feed cattle are fitted with hormone implants, which are placed under the skin behind the animals' ears, to hasten growth.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
U.S. Acts on Dioxin Scare
 WASHINGTON, June 3 (Reuters) -- The United States will block imports of poultry and pork from the European Union to make sure that the products are not tainted with the cancer-causing chemical dioxin, an official with the Department of Agriculture said today.
Earlier, European leaders decided to destroy chicken and egg-based foods originating in Belgium in Europe's worst food safety scare since the "mad cow" disease outbreak in Britain.
The European Commission has already announced emergency Europe-wide restrictions on the affected Belgian chicken and egg products, including fresh pasta, mayonnaise and cakes, and may now impose even tougher curbs on pork after learning that pig breeders, in addition to poultry farmers, may have used animal feed tainted with dioxin.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); CANADA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); CANADA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD AND COOKING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; CANADA; EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPE EUROPEAN UNION (93%); BEEF (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); MEATS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (74%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (73%); FOOD SAFETY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (62%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (62%); CANCER (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



91 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: A Buoyant May at Retailers As Shopping Spree Goes On

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
United States retailers posted robust sales in May as consumers continued to show great confidence in the economy by snatching up everything from wardrobes in summer white to pool furniture.
Sales in retail stores open at least a year, a key industry measurement, rose 5.6 percent in May compared with results in the month a year earlier, according to the Goldman Sachs retail composite index. The figure was not a perfect comparison, however, because some merchants did not include sales from the Memorial Day weekend, traditionally a big spending weekend, which came a week later than last year. 
 The strong increase adds to an already brisk year for merchants. In the first four months of 1999, sales in stores open at least a year rose 6.7 percent compared with figures in the period a year earlier. That was one of the biggest jumps in years, according to the Goldman Sachs survey.
Analysts see few signs that the consumption binge will abate. "The depth and breadth of this economic expansion has been unbelievable, and we continue to think the consumer is in good shape," said Jeff Feiner, managing director at Lehman Brothers. "The really good news is that despite better-than-expected numbers, retailers have budgeted very conservatively for the more important second half of the year." Mr. Feiner has increased earnings estimates for several large retailers.
Discount chains continued to be at the center of the sales boom. Wal-Mart Stores posted an increase of 7.7 percent, and Target, a unit of the Dayton Hudson Corporation, was up 7.4 percent. Specialty apparel stores -- buoyed by hot weather, which caused customers to snatch up capri pants and brightly hued tank tops -- also sustained strong increases. Ann Taylor was up 10.1 percent, and American Eagle Outfitters was up 18.7 percent.
Even previously struggling brands showed solid gains. The Limited Inc., which posted a 10 percent growth in sales, had star performances from all its units, including Lane Bryant, which was up 12 percent, and Express, up 6 percent.
A notable exception in speciality apparel came from the normally invincible Gap Inc. Though sales were up a solid 8 percent, almost all the growth came from the rocket-charged performances of the Banana Republic division, which gained 17 percent, and Old Navy, 19 percent. The Gap Stores and Gap Kids posted declines of 1 percent to 4 percent. Analysts had been predicting that the Gap stores would rise 1 percent to 4 percent.
"We are not going to deliver a home run every time, especially since we were up against very strong numbers from last year," said Warren Hashagen, chief financial officer at Gap. Still, he added that "we have had a little bit of weakness in the merchandising assortment, but we are getting new merchandise in this week."
Department stores, which have consistently lagged behind the discounters in recent years, nevertheless had a strong showing. Federated Department Stores, whose units include Bloomingdale's and Macy's, had an increase of 4.1 percent, and Saks, the former Profitt's, said sales increased 3 percent.
Even the moderate-price merchants, the J. C. Penney Company and Sears, Roebuck & Company, which have struggled in recent years as they have lost customers to hipper outlets like Target and Old Navy, posted respectable gains. Sales were up 2.2 percent at Penney and 1.9 percent at Sears.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph/Table: "Retailers' Sales in May" shows year-to-year changes in the Goldman, Sachs retail composite index, based on monthly same-store sales, from Feb. 1998 through May 1999 and lists percent change in retail sales, total sales and percent change in total sales for selected stores, for the five weeks ended May 29 compared with the similar fiscal period last year. (Source: Goldman, Sachs, based on company reports)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%); GPS (NYSE) (82%); LTD (NYSE) (81%); GS (NYSE) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (54%); AEO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS448190 OTHER CLOTHING STORES (81%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (81%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%); GAP INC (82%); L BRANDS INC (81%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (95%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: JEFF FEINER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



92 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Support Shrinks for China's Trade Status

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3

 BODY:
President Clinton briefly acknowledged the 10th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square killings today and argued, with logic that is meeting increasing skepticism on Capitol Hill, that only by pushing ahead on expanding trade with Beijing can the United States remain "a force for social change in China."
Though members of Congress were not formally in Washington to receive Mr. Clinton's annual notification that he was renewing "normal trade relations" with China, they said they expected Mr. Clinton would once again prevail. Though Congress has often threatened to revoke China's trade status, it has never actually done so, even in the months after Tiananmen. 
 Nonetheless, by the count of some legislators, the majority in support of renewal is shrinking, on both the left and the right. Since reports of Chinese spying at national nuclear laboratories emerged, conservatives who once paid scant attention to human rights issues in China have formed an alliance of convenience with those who have long advocated linking China's trade status with its behavior in other arenas.
It is an alliance that clearly leaves some uncomfortable. Today, Representative Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat and a harsh critic of Mr. Clinton's policy, argued anew that Congress should deny China the trade benefits -- mostly lower taxes on Chinese goods shipped to the United States -- because Mr. Clinton's "engagement" policy "has not succeeded in making trade fairer, people freer or the world safer." But she also went after some of the newest critics of engagement: Republicans who were seizing on the spy scandal.
"This year, with a highly charged partisan atmosphere," she said, "the Republican leadership now wants to have it both ways. They want to exploit politically the failures of the Clinton China policy, while appeasing the business community" by renewing China's trade status.
In fact, many members of Congress appear of two minds. The Democratic minority leader, Representative Richard Gephardt, has consistently voted against renewal of the trade rights and in a telephone interview today he said he would oppose it again this year -- and expected "somewhat more support."
But he also backs the Administration's efforts to strike a deal with China that would get it into the World Trade Organization. Part of that bargain would require Congress to drop the annual debate and grant China a permanent version of what was once called "most favored nation" status. (The pro-trade contingent in Congress argued that the old phrase was misleading, since the privileges are given to all but a few rogue states.)
"There's a difference," Mr. Gephardt said. "If China's accession to the W.T.O. is done right, it can be a real force for change because it would provide a real structure of rules and a way we could enforce them."
But he has been pressing the White House to include some commitments from China on human rights, something missing from the current talks on China's membership.
On the one hand, several members of Congress say they want to preserve the right to vote each year on China's trade status because it gives them an opportunity to vent their emotions on one of the most emotionally charged issues in American foreign policy. On the other hand, they are under greater pressure from business constituents, farmers and investors to take the deal that China has offered, which calls for vast openings in China's market over the next five years.
"We obviously have a difficult situation this year," said Representative David Drier, a California Republican who has often led the fight to renew trading rights. "There's a great temptation to mix this issue with the findings of the Cox Commission on spying, with campaign contribution issues and with anger at China's response to the accidental bombing of their embassy in Belgrade. But to me it still doesn't make sense to withdraw the one positive thing we have going with the Chinese."
The Administration makes a similar case, arguing that even if China has gone backward on human rights issues (by the State Department's annual assessment) and security relations are tainted by the spying report, Washington should not waver from its trade policies.
But the White House's argument in favor of engagement is running into increasing opposition precisely because the predicted results have hardly materialized.
When President Clinton switched sides on this debate in 1994 and decided to separate the annual trade accord from China's human rights record, he argued that deeper economic engagement would inevitably open up the country to a more progressive view of rights. He made that case again today in a written statement, saying trade would spread "the tools, the contacts and ideas that promote freedom."
To some degree that is clearly the case: E-mail has changed the way Chinese communicate with the outside world, and American companies in China have pressed for clearer laws and insisted on enforcement of international copyright rules and other conventions. But China still imprisons dissidents and suppresses challenges to the Communist Party.
As a result, there is growing pressure on the White House to include at least some vague commitments on human rights in any agreement to get China into the World Trade Organization. "Members will need some cover to retreat from their past positions," said Mike Jendrzejczyk, the Washington director of Human Rights Watch/Asia.
But given its current mood, and the anti-American demonstrations on the streets last month, China seems unlikely to let noneconomic commitments into its W.T.O. accord.
Republicans are badly split. Today the House Budget Committee chairman, John Kasich, an Ohio Republican, said that at a time of espionage charges, renewing China's trade status "sends the wrong message at the wrong time."
But that was in sharp contrast to Senator Chuck Hagel, a Nebraska Republican, who warned last week that this year's renewal "could be in some jeopardy" if continued revelations about China "poison the environment." He has argued for a more tempered approach, one that recognizes that "we should not hold all of our other interests hostage" to China's behavior.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; TIANANMEN SQUARE (BEIJING); BEIJING (CHINA); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ESPIONAGE (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); NANCY PELOSI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999



93 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Robert Sobel, 68, a Historian of Business, Dies

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
Robert Sobel, a prolific historian of American business life whose topics ranged from the economic philosophy of President Calvin Coolidge to the influence of the junk-bond financier Michael Milken, died on Wednesday at his home in Long Beach, N.Y. He was 68.
The cause of death was brain cancer, said a spokeswoman for Hofstra University, where Professor Sobel taught for 43 years. 
 Professor Sobel's first book, "The Origins of Intervention," was published in 1961, when he was a 30-year-old history instructor at Hofstra, in Hempstead, N.Y. His latest, completed as he underwent unsuccessful cancer treatments, is a study of business blunders called "When Giants Stumble," just released by Prentice-Hall Press.
Besides teaching, Professor Sobel was the author, co-author or editor of more than 50 books and hundreds of articles and corporate profiles.
Most of his books were written for a general audience, but he never bristled when some scholarly writers dismissed him as a "popularizer," said his colleague and friend George David Smith, a professor of economic history at New York University. "Quite the contrary -- he saw that as his mission in life."
Still, that did not stop Professor Sobel from taking a gentle revenge on his ivory-tower critics in 1973, with publication of "For Want of a Nail," his mock textbook recounting the history of North America had General Burgoyne won the Revolutionary War battle at Saratoga. His spoof included pompous footnotes about petty disputes among imaginary scholars and a wholly invented bibliography of ludicrously boring and arcane references -- as well as an appendix featuring a list of the "leaders of the United States of Mexico," starting with its first president, Andrew Jackson.
But his dominant passion was Wall Street, a metaphysical neighborhood that had fascinated him since childhood. "It is as though you are walking through a historical theme park, with this engaging man at your side pointing out the sights," said Andrew Tobias, the author and investment guide, in a review in The New York Times of "The Last Bull Market: Wall Street in the 1960's" (W. W. Norton, 1978).
Professor Sobel wrote two studies of the New York Stock Exchange and two books on the American Stock Exchange. Friends said he considered "The Life and Times of Dillon Read" (Dutton, 1991) to be his finest book, but he produced other notable profiles of Wall Street characters, including "Dangerous Dreamers: The Financial Innovators from Charles Merrill to Michael Milken" (John Wiley & Sons, 1993).
To that he added a history of financial panics, a history of speculative bubbles and an account of the frenzied market of the 1920's.
Richard Sylla, an economic historian at New York University, acknowledged that Mr. Sobel's "pot-boiler style" sometimes drew criticism in academic circles. "But specialized scholars could learn a lot from him -- and you are talking to one who did," Professor Sylla added.
While in graduate school, friends say, Mr. Sobel found that he loved to write. "He was a compulsive writer," Professor Smith said. "He was miserable when he was not writing."
Indeed, in an academic realm where publishing is often considered the grim alternative to perishing, Mr. Sobel's published works were only one tributary of the broad river of words he produced. Unlike most academic writers, he was happy to ghost-write business books bearing other people's names. And he collaborated on a host of biographical projects that never reached a public audience, including the privately published memoirs of Joseph Cullman, the legendary leader of Philip Morris, and an authorized biography of Louis E. Wolfson, an early pioneer in corporate takeovers who ran afoul of Federal securities regulators.
Professor Sobel was clearly less enthralled by the corporate world, but that only slightly affected his output. His corporate histories included studies of RCA, ITT, the Penn Central Railroad, the automotive industry, the tobacco industry, the Trammell Crow construction empire and two books on I.B.M.
Rounding out his bookcase were economic assessments of Herbert Hoover and Calvin Coolidge and studies of the American Revolution, the French Revolution and the Industrial Revolution.
Robert Sobel was born and raised in the Bronx, the son of a commercial draftsman who drew promotional posters for the Loews chain of movie theaters. He was educated at James Monroe High School and the City College of New York, and earned his master's degree in history at New York University in 1952 before enlisting in the armed forces during the Korean War.
He later told family members that he had hoped to be a military intelligence officer but was turned down because of unfounded suspicions that he was related to Morton Sobell, another City College graduate who was a figure in the spy case involving Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. Instead, he served as an administrative clerk in the Army.
He returned to New York University after his discharge in 1955. He worked as a history instructor there and, starting in 1956, at Hofstra while working on his doctorate at N.Y.U. After his degree was conferred in 1957, he joined the faculty at Hofstra, where he remained for four decades.
In 1990, he was awarded the university's Lawrence Stetson Distinguished Professorship in business history, which he held until his retirement in May 1998. A memorial service will be held for Professor Sobel in September at the Hofstra campus, where flags have been lowered to half-staff in his honor.
For all the years he spent in the classroom, friends say that teaching history did not satisfy him as much as writing history -- or, indeed, writing anything.
Besides producing books, articles, book reviews, and scripts for television and audiotapes, he was a weekly columnist for Newsday from 1972 to 1988. At the time of his death he was a contributing editor to Barron's magazine. He also worked as a consultant for the Winthrop Group in Cambridge, Mass. His family says that two completed book manuscripts are scheduled for publication posthumously.
Professor Sobel is survived by his wife, Carole Ritter Sobel of Long Beach; his mother, Blanche Sobel of Riverdale; a brother, Alan Sobel of Brooklyn; two children, Barbara Sobel of Queens and David Sobel of Alexandria, La., and two grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Sobel (Weybright and Talley, 1973)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (50%); JWA (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONG BEACH, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (50%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONG BEACH, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); HISTORY (90%); WRITERS (90%); BONDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ONCOLOGY (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); BRAIN CANCER (72%); CANCER (72%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



94 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: MAN IN THE NEWS;
An Intellectual Guerrilla: Thabo Mbeki

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

DATELINE: CAPE TOWN, June 3

 BODY:
As Winnie Madikizela-Mandela shouted recently to a cheering crowd in a black township: "I'm sick and tired of white-controlled media who say they don't know Thabo Mbeki. Who cares?"
President Nelson Mandela's ex-wife, whose speeches usually have vaguely threatening undertones, was unsubtly pointing out that when Mr. Mbeki takes over as President on June 16, he will govern with a huge mandate whether whites or anyone else know him or not. 
 Not that this means they need be afraid. South Africa's second post-apartheid President is someone who has no military background, is an able administrator and repeatedly pledges himself to democracy and to fighting corruption even in his own party.
His Government, Mr. Mbeki said in his victory speech today, will "approach the exercise of power without any arrogance, with humility."
If Nelson Mandela is the George Washington of this new democracy, the kind of giant among men who turns down offers to be king, then Mr. Mbeki is its John Adams. Like Adams, he is small, sharply intelligent, visionary, reflective, sometimes tart-tongued, and an adept back-room fighter.
He is also, on any occasion, the man most likely to turn up too formally dressed.
Playing on their difference in raiment, the dapper Mr. Mbeki, 56, has mused publicly on his resentment of people who constantly ask whether he can fill Mr. Mandela's shoes.
"Why should I wear those big, ugly things?" he said. "Or," he added with a shudder, "those shirts" -- meaning the bold "Madiba shirts" that Mr. Mandela adopted after a trip to Indonesia.
Mr. Mbeki intends to fit his own smaller but more meticulously polished shoes.
Born on June 18, 1942, Thabo Mbeki (pronounced TAH-boh mm-BEG-ee) grew up in poverty in Mbewuleni village in the Idutywa area of the Transkei -- the historic land of the Xhosa.
Though he grew up on the side of the valley with the rural peasantry who wore blankets and painted their faces with red clay, Mr. Mbeki was the son of radical party intellectuals who ran a small store and taught school to survive.
He was in the liberation struggle virtually from the age of 10, when he and a cousin sold Coke bottles to raise money to pay their African National Congress membership fees. The struggle eventually cost him a son, a brother and, two biographers say, any real relationship with his father, who was one of its heroes.
The father, Govan Mbeki, spent much of his life in jail and sent his children away to relatives very young so they couldn't come to depend on parents who expected to be arrested. The elder Mr. Mbeki, whose wife still lives in Idutywa, now lives in a bungalow on the grounds of his son's official mansion, but "seems sad, lonely and regretful," with "little familial warmth either in the relationship or even in Thabo's achievements," according to a new biography, "The Life and Times of Thabo Mbeki" (Adrian Hadland and Jovial Rantao, Zebra Press, April 1999).
Mr. Mbeki dislikes revealing himself. His precampaign book "Africa, the Time Has Come" is just a collection of speeches, with a dry 22-page biographical sketch.
But even the speeches reveal a great deal. His 1964 statement to a United Nations committee in London, delivered when he was a 21-year-old student asking it to somehow prevent the Pretoria Government from hanging his father, is an ennobling portrait of the elder Mr. Mbeki, touching in its combination of humility and righteousness.
His 1978 speech "The Historical Injustice" shows a piercing intellectualism as he subjects the history of South Africa to Marxist analysis, skewering the British imperialists and the Boer pioneers for corrupting even the capitalism and Calvinism they preached, regressing into feudalism, a racist version of Lutheranism and simple murder and theft because it was easier and more profitable than adopting the liberalizing trends of Europe.
And for sheer poetic power, his "I Am an African" speech, celebrating the new Constitution in 1996, surpasses even the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech, which it somewhat resembles -- although Dr. King was a more riveting speaker.
He is becoming better known because biographers are probing his past; the fact that he fathered a child at 16 who disappeared 17 years later, probably at the hands of the police, has humanized him a bit. So have photos of him as a young man leaning affectionately against friends or smiling at his 1974 London wedding to Zanele Dlamini, who was studying social work and now heads a bank for rural women.
Mr. Mbeki is now seen as a politician, but he is really a lifelong intellectual guerrilla, rather than an armed one. At Lovedale Institution, a South African boarding school, he excelled at Latin, mathematics and science, but was expelled in his senior year for leading a student strike. A white teacher who recognized his erudition arranged for a scholarship to the University of Sussex in England; but he began school late because he had been arrested by the Rhodesian Government while trying to slip out to Britain without a passport.
After getting a degree in economics and backing causes from nuclear disarmament to getting the United States out of Vietnam, he was sent by Oliver Tambo, the London-based president of the African National Congress, to set up offices in Zambia, Botswana, Swaziland and Mozambique, making the white South African Government feel surrounded.
He became one of the public faces of the dissident group, meeting reporters and accompanying Mr. Tambo on diplomatic trips to Moscow, Washington and other capitals. In the 1980's, when white executives and prominent Afrikaners defied their Government to meet the African National Congress in exile, Mr. Mbeki was always there.
In 1990, after the A.N.C. was legalized, he returned home for the first time in 28 years.
While the spotlight briefly lingered on Cyril Ramaphosa, a union leader who negotiated the new Constitution, Mr. Mbeki returned to his role as heir apparent with his election as African National Congress chairman in 1993.
The fear of him, particularly asserted among whites, is that he prefers back-room victories to open debate and puts "Africanism" above equality.
Those fears got new fuel this week when Business Day, a financial paper, reported that he had intervened to stop Judge Edwin Cameron, one of the country's best legal minds, from being named to the highest court.
Quoting "judges and lawyers close to the process," the paper said he persuaded Mr. Mandela to choose an "able and solid" black candidate because there are only three nonwhites on the 11-seat Constitutional Court.
Mr. Mbeki's legal adviser denied that he did more than consult, but that was regarded with skepticism; his office never admits being behind the sidelining of political rivals.
But in a recent interview with the newspaper The Sowetan, Mr. Mbeki made no bones about his "Africanist" perspective.
"If you are talking about poverty alleviation and eradication, then necessarily you will focus on people who are poorest," he said. "If that is what is mean by Africanist, you cannot avoid it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thabo Mbeki has said he intends to exercise power with humility. He acknowledged victory at an election party in Johannesburg yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (77%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (77%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FUNDRAISING (74%); CORRUPTION (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CHILDREN (64%); ARRESTS (60%); WRITERS (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); 

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



95 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

YEN DECLINES. The dollar rose against the yen on the belief that American economic strength could induce the Fed to raise interest rates. In New York, the yen settled at 122.22 to the dollar, up from 121.66 on Thursday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since Dec., 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); INTEREST RATES (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



96 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
2 Asia Airlines See Progress In Labor and Money Crises

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 4

 BODY:
The skies may soon become smoother for two Asian airlines buffeted by labor disputes and financial problems.
Philippine Airlines said today that it had raised $200 million in fresh capital to resuscitate its debt-ridden operations. And Cathay Pacific Airways is preparing for talks with its pilots to resolve a dispute that has grounded between a third and half of its daily flights since May 28. 
 In both cases, analysts cautioned that the good news should be tempered by caution.
Although Cathay Pacific made a significant concession when it agreed on Thursday to reopen negotiations with its pilots, it is not clear that more talking can close the wide gap between the carrier and its pilots over salaries.
Cathay's senior pilots called in sick in record numbers today to protest a deadline that the airline had given them to accept a new pay package. That forced the carrier, which is based in Hong Kong, to cancel 59 of its 117 scheduled flights. Cathay made up some of the flights with 26 chartered planes.
"It's a very positive step that they're talking," said Peter Negline, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney in Hong Kong. "But both parties have gone over this ground at length. I don't have reason to believe that either side has moved its stance enough to reach an immediate resolution."
Cathay has threatened that if the senior pilots do not accept its salary offer by June 11, it will lay them off. The airline had earlier said that it would not reopen talks unless the pilots made concessions, but now it has agreed to meet with their union, the Hong Kong Aircrew Officers Association, here on Saturday.
In the case of Philippine Airlines, the carrier met a deadline of today to raise $200 million or face liquidation. The trouble is, most of the money is being contributed by the company's largest shareholder, Lucio C. Tan, and investors close to him. Mr. Tan himself has put up $100 million.
It is not clear that the creditors of Philippine Airlines, who have been increasingly hostile toward Mr. Tan, will support his bid to stay in control of the carrier. Mr. Tan, a big player in tobacco and beer, is one of the richest men in the Philippines. He has relied on his close ties to President Joseph P. Estrada of the Philippines to keep the airline operating, despite its $2.2 billion in debts.
"Tan clearly has an understanding with Estrada," said Jim Eckes, a consultant at Indoswiss Aviation Ltd. in Hong Kong. "But does he have an understanding with the creditors? I don't see the creditors, who haven't been paid for a year, being in a position to accept him in top management."
Among the largest creditors of Philippine Airlines is the Export-Import Bank of the United States, which announced plans in May to seize four planes. The bank had earlier endorsed a plan to rehabilitate the airline -- after Mr. Tan ceded day-to-day management to a team of executives from Cathay Pacific.
But Mr. Tan took back the chief executive title in late April, consigning the team from Cathay to a marginal role.
Cathay Pacific and Philippine Airlines have more differences than similarities. Cathay's investors include Swire Pacific, a leading Hong Kong business empire, as well as the China International Trust and Investment Corporation, China's big state-run investment banking concern, and is regarded as one of Asia's best-run airlines. Philippine Airlines, which was once owned by the Philippine Government, is a virtual catalogue of airline maladies -- with unprofitable routes, a costly and oversized fleet and a bloated work force.
Yet both carriers have suffered during the Asian crisis, which has sapped tourism and business travel throughout the region. Cathay recorded its first loss in 35 years in 1998, $542 million (Hong Kong), or $69.9 million (United States). Philippine Airlines has lost more than $330 million the last four years.
Mr. Negline estimated that Cathay could lose $38 million because of the canceled flights. But given its underlying strengths, he and other analysts are sanguine about its prospects. Salaries of Cathay's top pilots are among the highest in the industry. And Hong Kong's laws favor employers over employees.
"Cathay will start firing people at some point," Mr. Eckes said. "I just don't think the pilots can afford to go on strike."
Officials in Hong Kong are praying for an quick end to the dispute. The territory's tourism industry was just starting to perk up after a long drought. By disrupting the travel plans of 40,000 passengers and counting, Cathay's dispute could end up hampering Hong Kong's recovery from the recession. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 0293 (HKSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (60%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: PHILIPPINE AIRLINES; CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD (91%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE US (60%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIPPINE AIRLINES; CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; PILOTS AIRLINES (92%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EXPORT TRADE (61%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK LUCIO C TAN (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



97 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Deutsche Bank Seals Bankers Trust Deal

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
Deutsche Bank A.G., sealing its position as the world's largest bank, completed its acquisition of the Bankers Trust Corporation yesterday and effectively put an end to the Bankers Trust brand name.
Deutsche said it planned to stop using or gradually phase out that name in almost all businesses except private banking. Deutsche will temporarily maintain the name of the Bankers Trust investment banking unit, BT Alex. Brown, as Alex. Brown for some of the merged company's investment banking activities in the United States. 
 A round of layoffs also began at Bankers Trust yesterday, with the announcement of large job cuts in the bank's fixed-income business. Though some were concerned that a disproportionate share of the layoffs would fall on Bankers Trust employees in this country, Deutsche said that its previously announced plan to lay off 5,500 people from both companies over a three-year period remained unchanged.
A Deutsche spokeswoman said those layoffs, which represent nearly 6 percent of the combined company's work force, would reflect the strengths and weaknesses of Deutsche's and Bankers Trust's various units and were agreed upon by management teams from both companies.
With $817 billion in assets, Deutsche is a legendary powerhouse in European banking but has had less success making inroads into the highly competitive and highly entrepreneurial world of investment banking. In addition, Deutsche has been regarded by many analysts as somewhat lumbering in a world in which financial services are rapidly changing.
Deutsche's chief executive, Rolf E. Breuer, said in an interview that he believed the $9 billion takeover of Bankers Trust would give Deutsche a "shot in the arm" and make it a more competitive player in European mergers and acquisitions -- a market that is expected to heat up in the next few years as the European economy and European companies consolidate.
Although Dr. Breuer said he was "interested in advising on megadeals" in the United States, he also said he had no intention of competing head on with the firms that already have a lock on that business -- Goldman, Sachs, for example, and Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Dr. Breuer reiterated the bank's intention to centralize control of the investment banking operation in Frankfurt, the Deutsche home base. But he said he did not believe that a culture clash would emerge as Deutsche digested Bankers Trust.
He said that Americans would be running the investment banking business and that compensation within that unit would reflect the lush salaries that typify the investment banking industry.
"We have to pay market rates," Dr. Breuer said. "Otherwise people will leave."
Though any merger often involves thorny challenges in getting former competitors to cooperate, Dr. Breuer said Deutsche planned to move swiftly to integrate the operations of both banks.
He said the bank was still negotiating a settlement regarding questions about its handling of bank accounts owned by victims of the Holocaust. He said Deutsche would participate in a restitution fund that should be in place by Sept. 1, but he declined to estimate how large the fund would be.
Dr. Breuer also said Deutsche did not expect any further legal or financial problems stemming from Bankers Trust's recent guilty plea to Federal charges that it had misappropriated unclaimed customer funds. He said United States regulators had immunized Deutsche from any further claims as part of its takeover of Bankers Trust.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: From New York, Rolf Breuer, the chief executive, appeared by video at Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt. (The Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (97%); DBK (FRA) (97%); DBK (BIT) (97%); DBETN (JSE) (97%); DBA (ASX) (97%); DB (NYSE) (97%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (97%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (97%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (97%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (97%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (97%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (97%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CORP; DEUTSCHE BANK AG DEUTSCHE BANK AG (97%); BANKERS TRUST CORP (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKERS TRUST CORP; DEUTSCHE BANK AG

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); MERGERS (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (50%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L; BREUER, ROLF ROLF E BREUER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



98 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Authorities Suspend Operations at a Major Japanese Insurer

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 4

 BODY:
Financial authorities suspended operations today at the Toho Mutual Life Insurance Company, only the second major insurer in Japan to go out of business since World War II.
Toho's troubles underscore the problems facing the wobbly insurance industry, and today's collapse may be just the beginning. And because Toho has a tie-up with the GE Capital Corporation of the United States, the suspension will be watched closely by the foreign financial community as a test of whether foreign concerns can withstand possible spillover effects from weak or ailing Japanese partners. 
 Many of Japan's insurers have been staggering under the weight of billions of dollars in property losses and bad debts. Like the nation's big banks, Japan's life insurance companies went on buying sprees during the economic go-go years at the end of the last decade, and they are now stinging from losses as property prices have in some cases plunged 90 percent from their peak values.
"The life insurance industry in Japan has problems which could be equally as serious as those in the banking industry," said Andrew Smithers, president of Smithers & Company, a financial consultancy based in London.
Mr. Smithers said Toho was probably the most vulnerable of the insurers, but that there were a couple of other insurers that were also bleeding. Partly because Toho's demise had been anticipated, financial experts say that there is unlikely to be any backlash effect on other financial institutions.
Financial authorities have just started a major inspection of the nation's insurance companies, and analysts anticipate a shake-out in the industry. Government inspections of the banking industry led to the nationalization of two large institutions last fall.
The Government has established a new protection fund for insurance policyholders, but analysts say the fund has very little money and that it is possible that the Bank of Japan may have to extend loans to the fund to cover payments to policyholders.
In April 1997, the Nissan Mutual Life Insurance Company collapsed, leaving many policyholders nearly empty-handed.
About a year ago, GE Capital, a unit of General Electric, negotiated its way into Japan's closed and clubby insurance industry by striking a deal with Toho and setting up a joint venture, GE Edison Life Insurance. Analysts praised the deal because the new venture would start afresh with only Toho's new business, while the old, more risky policies remained with Toho Mutual. GE thus seemed to isolate itself from possible fallout from a collapse of Toho.
But the suspension order by the Financial Supervisory Agency appears to affect at least a small part of GE Edison's operations. It is not clear whether negative publicity over the collapse of Toho may also have any impact in the minds of policyholders on the reputation of GE Edison. GE Edison issued a statement today saying that its operations would be "secure and unaffected" by Toho's suspension.
Toho officials told a news conference this evening that its accountants refused to attach their blessing to the financial statements for the year ending March 31. Accountants in Japan have a reputation for being generally lenient in their audits, and their refusal suggests that Toho was in severe financial distress.
Toho officials said that its auditors figured that the company had to dispose of 230 billion yen, or about $2 billion, in bad assets arising from potential losses on securities, foreign exchange deals and bad loans. If the company had done so, then it would have had a capital deficit of about 200 billion yen, or about $1.7 billion.
Japanese life insurers, like Toho, have been squeezed by plummeting interest rates in Japan. For years, Government rules had forced them to pay out high, fixed returns on insurance policies. But with interest rates falling to nearly zero, the money that life insurance companies received from policyholders was invested in stocks and bonds offering increasingly lower returns so that they often ended up paying more out to policyholders than they received from their investments, which are their major source of income. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (85%); GEC (LSE) (85%); GE (SWX) (85%); GE (NYSE) (85%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); AIG (NYSE) (51%); 8685 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: TOHO MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO TOHO MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (85%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOHO MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; BANKRUPTCIES INSURANCE (94%); LIFE INSURANCE (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (79%); INSPECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); JOINT VENTURES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL ANDREW SMITHERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



99 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Undercut in Effort To Depict Rival as Thriving

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
Trying to defang the Government's antitrust charges against it, the Microsoft Corporation introduced a host of evidence this week to show that the Netscape browser was still healthy and thriving, despite Microsoft's all-out assault on the browser market.
But in a single stroke this afternoon, a Government lawyer undercut Microsoft's strategy by producing a Microsoft E-mail written in January suggesting that the company had cynically and selectively produced data to support this point of view. 
 In the E-mail, Greg Shaw, a Microsoft public relations executive, asked others at the company: "What data can we find right away, showing that the Netscape browser is still healthy? The Government is introducing a bunch of data showing Netscape headed down big time and Microsoft way up."
The Netscape Communications Corporation's browser held a commanding lead until Microsoft entered the market with a browser, Internet Explorer, that was tied to the Windows operating system and set out on a campaign to dissuade other companies to work with Netscape. The Government's antitrust case is built on the contention that Microsoft used its dominance in operating systems to bolster its share of the browser market illegally.
"It would help if you could send me some reports showing their market share healthy and holding," Mr. Shaw added.
Later that morning, Robert Bennett, group product manager for Windows, wrote back, saying, "All the analyses have pretty much come to the same conclusion, which is that Netscape is declining and Internet Explorer is gaining."
A half-hour later, Yusef Mehdi, director of Windows marketing, weighed in, saying that he had found one survey showing "us very close on Internet Explorer share" and another that "has Netscape even or even higher."
"This is for the trial," Mr. Mehdi added, "so let's provide the more negative analysts."
As David Boies, the lead Government lawyer, read that aloud, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, who is trying the case without a jury, chuckled and shook his head, while Microsoft's lawyers looked grim.
And when Mr. Boies asked the witness, Franklin Fisher, an economist from Massachusetts Institute of Technology, what he thought this said about his analysis of Microsoft's take on the browser war, Mr. Fisher said only: "This document speaks for itself rather louder than most."
In questioning the witness again a short time later, a Microsoft lawyer, Michael Lacovara, heatedly asserted that all the Microsoft executives involved in the E-mail exchange were "marketing and public relations personnel" and that the exchange was "a discussion of trial public relations," not of legal issues. In fact, at one point, Mr. Shaw wrote that the request for market data "is for press purposes."
But it was not the first time Microsoft had been shown to gin up surveys or statistics that would indicate support for the company's view.
In January, Mr. Boies offered as evidence an E-mail message in which William H. Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, wrote, "It would help me immensely to have a survey showing that 90 percent of developers believe that putting the browser into the operating system makes sense." Later, he added, "Ideally we would have a survey before I appear at the Senate on March 3d."
In subsequent E-mail messages, Microsoft employees laid out how they would phrase the survey questions to be sure they elicited the responses Mr. Gates wanted.
Earlier today, Mr. Boies also seemed to take some of the sting out of Microsoft's attack Thursday evening on a previous Government witness, James Barksdale, who was chairman of Netscape. In court last October, Mr. Barksdale asserted that because of what he described as Microsoft's predatory conduct, Netscape could no longer get computer makers to provide the Netscape browser with their products.
"That's over half the distribution channel, and we're basically out of it," he said. But an internal document prepared for America Online at the same time, as part of that company's research for its purchase of Netscape, showed that just over one-fifth of the nation's computer manufacturers were shipping Netscape at the time.
As a result, Mr. Lacovara asserted that Mr. Barksdale's credibility had been thrown into question, and Judge Jackson expressed interest in that.
Today, Mr. Boies pointed to several passages in Mr. Barksdale's direct written testimony in which he listed all the companies that were shipping Netscape on at least some of their computers and explained precisely what the arrangements allowed. All this detailed information, Mr. Boies and Mr. Fisher both said, showed that Mr. Barksdale was not trying to overstate the depth of Netscape's problem. Judge Jackson did not remark on this development. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); AOL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP MICROSOFT CORP (94%); AOL INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); INTERNET BROWSERS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); MARKET SHARE (87%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL ROBERT BENNETT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



100 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Falls Again, But Job Growth Is Moderating

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
America's unemployment rate dropped to 4.2 percent in May, the Labor Department reported yesterday. That matches the 29-year low first reached in March and is just the latest sign that the nation's labor market remains remarkably robust.
But there was also a strong hint in yesterday's report that the jobs boom may be moderating. While employers actually added 841,000 workers to their payrolls in May, the increase was rather paltry given it is usually the peak time of year for seasonal hiring. After the Labor Department took account of the usual spring hiring surge, the seasonally adjusted gain in payroll employment turned out to be virtually nil -- a net gain of a mere 11,000 jobs. 
 By contrast, the increase for April was a whopping 343,000 when adjusted for seasonal factors.
"There are some signs of slowing," said Richard Rippe, chief economist at Prudential Securities, "but at the same time the labor market is very tight and there's some upward pressure on wages."
As seen through the corrective lens of seasonal adjustment, the weakness in May hiring was widespread. Manufacturers, who have been buffeted by the economic slowdown in the rest of the world, trimmed 45,000 workers from their payrolls, bringing the total reduction since March 1998 to nearly half a million. Construction payrolls, which had been climbing, on average, by 28,000 workers a month, fell by 40,000. And services -- the main engine of job growth -- added far fewer workers than usual, just offsetting the losses elsewhere.
Stepping back a bit, it turns out that the economy has added an average of 196,000 jobs a month on a seasonally adjusted basis in the first five months of 1999, significantly fewer than the average of 243,000 a month in the second half of 1998. What is more, total hours worked are growing more slowly, at an annual rate of less than 1 percent in the second quarter versus 2 percent in the first.
May's mixture of strength and weakness gave investors no clear idea of whether the Federal Reserve, whose monetary policy committee meets at the end of the month, is likely to raise interest rates or not.
"This is very much a 'wait and see what happens next' report," said Katherine Abraham, the commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "It's too soon to draw any conclusions about this being a turning point."
David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's DRI, agreed. "It leaves the Fed where they were," he said, "looking for a sign that inflation is dangerous enough to be worth stomping on or just a phantom menace."
In the last several weeks, one strong report after another on everything from car sales to house purchases to factory output has fanned fears that the Federal Reserve is about to raise rates. Last month, the Fed's monetary policy-making committee, citing an "already tight labor market" and strong domestic spending, voted to adopt a "bias" toward raising rates -- though it did not actually raise them.
The central bank has been on the alert for signs that the good times are pushing wages up faster. Hourly pay did jump a bit, rising 5 cents, to $13.19 in May.
But pay increases have been exhibiting a seesaw pattern over the last few months, up one month, fairly flat the next, rather than a clear acceleration. The increase from a year ago is 3.6 percent, the same as last month. Last year, wages rose 4.4 percent. "You still see a deceleration," Mr. Rippe said.
Investors, who typically pay more attention to payrolls than to the unemployment rate, reacted to the report with a collective sigh of relief. Bond prices inched lower, while several stock indexes rallied.
American workers, of course, have been celebrating the current state of the job market at shopping malls, car dealers' lots and new housing subdivisions. It is easy to see why. Last month, the unemployment rate for college graduates dipped to 1.9 percent. Over the last year, while the number of college graduates in the work force rose by 1.7 million, the number of managerial, professional and technical jobs rose by an even larger number.
Even the youngest, least-educated, least-experienced workers are doing nicely. Unemployment among teenagers dropped to 12.6 percent in May from nearly 15 percent at the beginning of the year. And the unemployment rates among black and Hispanic workers remain at historic lows.
"This is still a very strong economy," said Mr. Wyss of Standard & Poor's. "The problem is much more that people can't find workers than that people can't find jobs."
The pattern of job growth may be shifting a bit along with the pace. Hiring by service firms, whose appetite for more workers has seemed to have no bounds, turned sluggish in May for the first time since 1996. Hotels and landscaping services hired fewer workers than earlier in the year, but even industries less prone to seasonal ups and downs -- financial services and management consulting, for example -- pulled back. Employment in health care services leveled off after months of rapid growth. Retailers, which added sales clerks at a rapid pace during the last year, hardly hired any in May. Exceptions included car dealers and furniture stores, a reflection of the hot market for cars and houses. Business services -- mainly computer services and data processing -- continued to pull in workers.
Despite the boom in all kinds of construction, which has been adding an average of 28,000 jobs a month since last fall, payrolls actually shrank in May. The decline mostly reflects what the Labor Department referred to as "erratic" weather, which has caused this year's seasonal hiring to begin earlier than usual. But higher interest rates, falling housing starts and a shrinking backlog of new commercial construction contracts suggest that hiring may stay weak in months to come.
Industries that have been shedding jobs continued to do so. Despite the recent rebound in oil prices, mining outfits cut 7,000 jobs, mostly in oil and gas extraction. Declines in factory employment were widespread, encompassing heavy machinery, aircraft, clothing and textiles.
There are signs that this may change, said Robert Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company. Workers who are on the assembly lines are busier than ever. The average factory workweek, nearly 42 hours, and the average overtime, 4.6 hours, are high by historical standards. Together with fatter order books, higher production and shrinking inventories, this suggests that manufacturers may soon be running help wanted ads.
The May jobs report reflects an annual benchmark revision in the Labor Department's payroll survey. As usual, the department found that more jobs had been created than originally estimated.
But Ms. Abraham said this year's upward revision of 44,000 jobs was smaller than usual.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Labor Picture in May" lists employment figures for May 1999. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (56%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (60%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA RICHARD RIPPE (61%); DAVID WYSS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



101 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Europe's New Military Aspirations

 BODY:
The air war over Yugoslavia, though successful, brought renewed attention to one of NATO's oldest problems. While 19 countries belong to the alliance and take part in its political decision-making, most of the military power comes from just one of these countries, the United States, as does much of the political leadership. More than two-thirds of the NATO planes used against Kosovo and Serbia were American. This week the European Union, which includes most of NATO's European members, adopted a plan aimed at partially redressing the balance. That is a welcome development. But European governments will have to overcome many obstacles if the plan is to have any practical effect.
The idea is to give Europe the ability to carry out peacekeeping and small-scale combat operations on its own, while continuing its reliance on American participation in bigger conflicts. That ability is already improving, at least for peacekeeping. Four years ago in Bosnia, the United States had to provide one-third of the 60,000 peacekeepers. It will be supplying only 14 percent of the 50,000 soldiers planned for Kosovo. 
 The European Union plan, which would unfold over the next 18 months, commits member countries to transform their military forces so that they can be used more effectively in crisis and peacekeeping situations. It also designates a full-time coordinator of European foreign and defense policy, a job given yesterday to Javier Solana, the current Secretary General of NATO. Merely naming a coordinator will not bring coherence to the disparate foreign policies of the European Union's 15 sovereign countries. But Mr. Solana's political skills and NATO experience make him a good choice.
Europe's total armed forces are already larger than those of the United States. But for the most part, they are poorly suited for crises like Bosnia or Kosovo. More mobile and flexible forces are needed that could fight for months at a stretch. Europe must also increase its capacity to ferry troops where needed, reducing its reliance on American transport planes. Additionally, European armies need modern command and intelligence tools.
Modernizing European forces will require breaking down bureaucratic fiefs and pushing through politically difficult increases in defense spending. Applying force will also require changes in European attitudes. Since the end of World War II, Germany and Italy have been understandably reluctant to use military force.
Europe's inability to carry its military weight in NATO has been a standing source of trans-Atlantic friction. More than a half-century after the defeat of Hitler and more than a decade after the cold war, American troops should not be expected to help extinguish every local European conflict. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); ARMIES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (71%); 

PERSON: JAVIER SOLANA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



102 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
Contemporary Art in a Factory Setting

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG 

 BODY:
From a window on the second floor of Mass MOCA, the newly opened museum of contemporary art in North Adams, Mass., you can look out over a side street in that once-industrial town. Water slides from a storm drain into a massive concrete spillway that is actually one branch of the Hoosic River. Above the spillway there is a row of old-fashioned two-story houses whose porches have gone slack with time. A grocery-store clerk walks down the block gathering stray shopping carts and stacking them in the back of his pickup. Beyond the block, the hills rise sharply in the near distance, as they do everywhere in North Adams, which is set in a deep crease in the northern Berkshires.
The gallery from which all of this is visible is a small room located just past the end of Robert Rauschenberg's enormous ongoing artwork called "The 1/4 Mile or 2 Furlong Piece." This work hangs in the largest of Mass MOCA's rooms, a place called Building 5, once used for dyeing and drying textiles by the Arnold Print Works, one of several industrial companies to make use of this outsize complex of buildings along Marshall Street. The absorbing detail of Rauschenberg's piece is set against a long white wall, which is a way of protecting the work from the absorbing detail of the building it is housed in. If there is something kinetic about the way Rauschenberg has revised himself in "The 1/4 Mile or 2 Furlong Piece," it is a kineticism entirely matched by the way the old factory and mill buildings that form Mass MOCA have themselves been revised over time, by economic change, by fire and flood, by use and disuse. 
 Mass MOCA was first proposed in 1986, a year after Sprague Electric, the last major occupant of these buildings, shut down, leaving the industrial center of North Adams vacant. The reconstruction necessary to accommodate a museum of contemporary art has exposed the inadvertent artistry of the setting itself, the sheer profusion of surface -- columns and struts and beams, a galaxy of bricks, each one burning with a color rediscovered by the light that has been admitted. By definition, the art that works at Mass MOCA is an art that is not intimidated by its surroundings. The scale of these spaces is what first made the idea of this museum attractive. But what will keep it interesting is the way the vibrancy of the buildings challenges the work itself.
It is an old habit to think of a museum as the silent, blank walls that allow painting and sculpture to be heard in their full voice, undisturbed by anything but the sounds of visitors walking by. Mass MOCA turns that old habit inside out. You cannot walk through it without thinking of the countless gestures, some meant, some unmeant, that turned the blank brick of those factory buildings into the cumulative life's work of the many thousands of North Adams residents who toiled on this site for more than two centuries. This is a museum designed to honor the labor of artists, but one that inevitably honors the labor of the townspeople in whose midst it has been set. VERLYN KLINKENBORG 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MASS MOCA MUSEUM (NORTH ADAMS, MASS)

ORGANIZATION: MASS MOCA MUSEUM (NORTH ADAMS, MASS)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART RIVERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); TEXTILES (66%); 

PERSON: KLINKENBORG, VERLYN ROBERT RAUSCHENBERG (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



103 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Shares Rally,Indicating Investors See Higher Interest Rates

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stock prices rallied yesterday and bond prices moved slightly lower as investors signaled that they were ready for the rate increase that many expect when Federal Reserve policy makers meet at the end of this month.
The selloffs in stocks since May 18, when the Fed first indicated it was leaning toward a rate increase, have been enough to compensate for higher interest rates, in the view of many investors. Sectors that had been hit particularly hard, including drugs, banks and technology stocks, helped lead the rally yesterday. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 136.15 points, or 1.28 percent, to 10,799.84, behind rallies in American Express, up 3 5/8, to 125 1/4; DuPont, up 3 5/16 , to 70 1/4, and Procter & Gamble, up 3 1/8, to 96 5/8. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose 28.21 points, or 2.17 percent, to 1,327.75.
The Nasdaq composite index, which had dropped 10 percent from its recent high, jumped 75.02 points, or 3.12 percent, yesterday to 2,478.34, led by Microsoft, up 3 3/16 , to 79 9/16 ; Cisco Systems, up 6 1/16 , to 114 7/8, and Intel, up 2 11/16 , to 53 3/16 .
There was little change in the bond market, where yields had shot sharply higher in the last two months as the economy refused to slow down. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond inched up to 5.96 percent, from 5.95 on Thursday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, slipped 3/32 , to 90 5/32 . The yield on the two-year Treasury note, which is very sensitive to fears of Fed rate increases, rose to 5.53 percent from 5.52 percent.
This performance came after the Labor Department said that only 11,000 new jobs were created in May, an increase that was sharply lower than Wall Street forecasts of a gain of nearly 220,000 jobs.
Normally, such an unexpectedly weak report would have sent bond prices higher as investors figured that a slowing economy would lessen the risk of a Fed rate increase. Stock prices, in such a situation, could go either way, with some investors buying because of the reduced risk of a rate increase while others sold on worries that slower growth would curb corporate earnings.
But yesterday, investors decided that despite the weakness of the jobs data, the outlook for the economy had not really changed. This means that growth has not slowed enough for the Fed to ignore the jump in consumer prices that was reported for April and is likely to be seen again in the May data due out in a week and a half. Next week's retail sales data could also show that consumers, who have been the driving force behind the economy's rapid growth, have not cut back.
"Whatever you thought about the labor market before this number, you still think about the labor market," Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said. Other data released earlier this week, including automobile and light-truck sales and a key manufacturing index, all showed that the economy was still surprisingly strong last month.
But the run-up in interest rates already, which has seen the yield on the two-year note jump two-thirds of a percentage point in two months, has given the Fed a green light to raise interest rates, he said. The yield on the two-year note is nearly half a percentage point higher than it would be if no rate increase was expected.
Joseph V. Battipaglia, chief investment strategist for Gruntal & Company, agreed. "Nothing much will happen," he said, after a quarter of a percentage move up in the Fed interest rate target, which is now 4.75 percent. But he said that if there were indications that the Fed would move interest rates still higher, there might be more reverberations.
Mr. Battipaglia also said stocks were likely to get support from what he expects to be very positive earnings news for the second quarter, which would begin to be reported in July, just after the next meeting of Fed policy makers.
The First Call Corporation, which tabulates corporate earnings estimates, says Wall Street analysts currently expect second-quarter earnings for the S.& P. 500 index to rise by 12.8 percent from a year ago.
In addition, Mr. Battipaglia said, the global financial crisis that shook the financial markets last summer, is gone. "The landscape for this summer looks dramatically different than last summer," he said, "and that has to be good for stocks."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); COMPANY EARNINGS (62%); JOB CREATION (61%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN JOSEPH V BATTIPAGLIA (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



104 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: REBUILDING;
A Relief Plan for Yugoslav Neighbors

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
Officials from the United States, the European Union and international aid agencies stepped up their planning today for the formidable job of repairing the physical and economic damage wrought throughout the Balkans by the conflict in Kosovo.
In the first official public assessment of the costs, Romano Prodi, the incoming president of the European Commission, said today that the European Union alone might have to budget as much as $6 billion a year for the next five years to deal with the problems. 
 But other officials said that any cost estimates at this point were little more than educated guesses. There has yet to be any comprehensive study of the costs of rebuilding homes, power and water systems, roads, schools and businesses in Kosovo. There are only sketchy estimates of what it will take to accomplish the first major goal, moving nearly one million refugees back into the province, and housing and feeding them through next winter.
President Clinton has said the United States expects Europe to finance most of the costs of putting the Balkans together again. Administration officials said they did not yet know precisely what contributions the United States would make, or how much money the Administration might have to request from Congress for rebuilding and relief assistance. A bill passed by Congress last month included $1.1 billion for relief.
"We've obviously done a lot of thinking about this already," said Harriet C. Babbitt, the Deputy Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, which plans to send a team into Kosovo as soon as allied military forces begin moving in. "But you can't do a lot of very specific planning until you know the environment in which you're going to be working. There are rooms full of frantic people putting together scenarios and budgets."
One indication of the scale of the problem came in a study released today by the International Monetary Fund. The study concluded that the economic damage to the six countries neighboring Yugoslavia from disruptions to trade, plus the costs of helping the refugees, would exceed $1.25 billion this year, and could be as high as $2.25 billion, without even considering the costs of making Kosovo habitable again.
In the longer term, the rebuilding job seems likely to be far bigger than the $5 billion, five-year international effort to rebuild Bosnia after the end of the conflict there, officials said. And both the United States and Europe are studying plans to go beyond physical rebuilding in Kosovo to bolster the economies of countries throughout the region and bring them economically and politically closer to the European Union.
"If we do not give a message of long-term stability linked to the European Union institutions, there will never be peace in the Balkans," Mr. Prodi said in an interview with CNN today.
For now, though, both the United States and Europe have all but ruled out providing any aid to help repair the tremendous damage done to Serbia by months of NATO bombing. In an apparent attempt to foster popular discontent with President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, officials in both Washington and in Europe said they would not provide help to rebuild Yugoslavia as long as Mr. Milosevic remained in power.
"There is no question of dealing with Milosevic," Tony Blair, the British Prime Minister, told Reuters Television. "There is no place for Serbia in the true family of nations while Milosevic remains, and they cannot be part, in my judgment, of a Balkan reconstruction program whilst Milosevic remains in office."
Although its economy was relatively poor and rural, Kosovo has clearly suffered tremendous physical damage that is certain to be costly and time-consuming to repair. The only international group to have gotten a good look at the province since the conflict began -- a United Nations team that spent less than three days there last week -- reported that 80 percent of the homes in some areas had been destroyed.
The delegation found "a depressing panorama of empty villages, burned houses, looted shops, wandering livestock and unattended farms," Sergio Vieira de Mello, the United Nations Under Secretary for Humanitarian Affairs, told the Security Council on Wednesday.
There is a host of political, economic and logistical problems to be overcome before any large-scale rebuilding effort can get under way. While neighboring countries like Albania and Macedonia are already receiving assistance from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, Kosovo is technically ineligible for aid from the international financial institutions because it is not a country, and remains part of a nation, Yugoslavia, that was kicked out of the World Bank and the monetary fund seven years ago.
It is also unclear how much rebuilding work will be done by allied military forces.
The experience in Bosnia indicates that physical rebuilding goes much more quickly than the complex task of creating a new economy. Christiaan Poortman, Balkans coordinator at the World Bank, said more than 90 percent of the planned road network in Bosnia is complete, more than 90 percent of a new phone system is up and running, elementary school enrollment is higher than before the conflict there, nearly three-quarters of the electrical generation system has been restored -- but the country's economic output is still less than half of what it was in 1990. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); SERBIA (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); EUROPE (99%); SERBIA (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TRENDS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); LEGISLATION (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; PRODI, ROMANO ROMANO PRODI (76%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



105 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE SERBS;
In Milosevic's Government, Resignation Over Pact, Confidence in His Strength

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, June 4

 BODY:
As soon as Russia agreed with NATO on the principles for a peace settlement for Kosovo, President Slobodan Milosevic understood that he had no choice but to accept the terms put in front of him, senior Yugoslav officials said today.
But they expressed deep concern that the international force being assembled by NATO would not move into Kosovo quickly enough to protect the Serbs there from separatist Albanian guerrillas. And they worry about the enormous task of reconstructing Serbia, for which Belgrade expects little Western help. 
 Despite these problems, the officials added, Mr. Milosevic will retain his grip on power, and the ultranationalist leader of the Radical Party, Vojislav Seselj, has agreed not to vote against the Government even though he might resign as deputy prime minister of Serbia to protest the Kosovo deal. Mr. Seselj has also promised not to lead demonstrations against the pact.
The Russians won some important concessions for Mr. Milosevic, the officials said, which made the final offer better for Belgrade than the earlier Western plan presented to the Serbs and the Albanians at Rambouillet, France. The Albanians accepted that plan; Mr. Milosevic rejected it.
"But we knew that when the Russians came in with this plan, that was it," said one official close to Mr. Milosevic and his influential wife, Mirjana Markovic. "We knew it from the beginning. We knew that the carpet bombing of Belgrade would start the next day after we refused, so what was the choice?"
The NATO alliance had threatened to take out the rest of Serbia's bridges, electrical supply and telephone system, and the Yugoslav officials said there was no longer any reason to wait. Continuing the unequal war was pointless, they said, and obviously posed greater risks to Mr. Milosevic's hold on power.
"The alternative to acceptance was not a humane one," the official said. "We couldn't be reckless and risk elimination of the state, the army and the people for the sake of rhetoric, and without any substantial support in the world."
The key part of the proposal that made it acceptable for Belgrade, the officials said, was the limitation on the movement of the international forces, mostly NATO and Russian troops under a United Nations flag, to Kosovo itself.
Under an annex of the Rambouillet accord, a purely NATO force was to be given full permission to go anywhere it wanted in Yugoslavia, immune from any legal process. "NATO personnel shall enjoy, together with their vehicles, vessels, aircraft and equipment, free and unrestricted passage and unimpeded access throughout the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia including associated airspace and territorial waters," the annex read.
The officials also noted that the new proposals did not recommend a re-examination of Kosovo's sovereignty after three years, or any referendum on that topic, as the Rambouillet agreement did.
Yugoslav officials also said their resistance had forced NATO to find a solution within the United Nations and with the participation of the Russians. And they emphasized the international guarantees of Serbia's sovereignty over Kosovo, unlike the temporary sovereignty proposed at Rambouillet.
On a more personal level, the officials expressed deep concern that up to 200,000 Serbs and Gypsies in Kosovo would flee the province rather than "wait for the K.L.A.," as one official put it, referring to the rebel Kosovo Liberation Army.
"I fear that Serbs won't be in Kosovo any more," the official said. "How many international troops are ready and how quickly can they deploy over this burned land? We pretend that NATO controls the terrorists of the K.L.A., but truthfully no one really controls them."
And he predicted that large numbers of poor ethnic Albanians from Albania and Macedonia who had never lived in Kosovo would try to move into the province as refugees, attracted by the large Western presence and promises of aid.
The mood of the officials was resigned and at moments even bleak. They understood that the West was unlikely to provide reconstruction aid for Serbia so long as Mr. Milosevic was in power, but they expressed few doubts that he would remain.
They offered few clear ideas for coping with Yugoslavia's dire economic problems, other than motivating Serbian self-reliance and ingenuity. Already weakened by eight years of international sanctions, Yugoslavia's economy has been blasted by NATO's war against bridges, highways, factories and refineries.
Russian help would be required, they said, to get enough natural gas for the winter and the gasoline and fuel needed to complete this year's harvest. And they said they expected Yugoslavia to continue to have to pay well over market price for the goods it was able to import or smuggle past the sanction monitors.
"People are now happy with the simple fact that the bombing will stop," said another senior official. "And the day after that no one knows. People have responded to the war in a remarkable fashion, and now we must organize people to act in a positive way."
The Yugoslav United Left party, which is led by Ms. Markovic, has spoken of the post-war period as a time of renewal, but it will likely be a period of lower living standards, poverty and a slow rebuilding of infrastructure.
Yet most analysts here -- including Zoran Jelicic, the former editor of the Belgrade magazine Vreme -- say that while the domestic political situation will become more tense, the difficulties of everyday life will make widespread political unrest less likely.
"We have a very hard time ahead," said Mr. Jelicic, who lost his editing job when he opposed Mr. Milosevic. "We will have inflation, shortages and severe unemployment," he said.
Those factors, said Mr. Jelicic, who is also an economist, will force the Government either to open up the economy to the world market, despite international sanctions, or to turn to a socialist-style economy to get through the most difficult periods. "But hard times will just strengthen the authorities," he said. "In our experiences, there are no protests during the worst times."
As for the West's effort to "bribe the population into overthrowing Milosevic," he said, "it even makes me resentful, and I've tried to bring him down from day one."
If the senior officials have concerns about the post-war economy, they add that Mr. Milosevic faces little internal political threat. Mr. Seselj has a history of being the Government's in-house nationalist.
Early Thursday morning, when he met with party leaders to tell them he would accept the Russian-NATO proposal and urged them to vote for it in Parliament later that day, Mr. Milosevic asked Mr. Seselj to at least abstain in the voting.
But Mr. Seselj, meeting with his party before the vote, ended up opposing the pact and later said he would quit the government once Western troops arrive in Kosovo.
"Certainly we won't stay in the Serbian government to see a possible entrance of troops from aggressor countries into Kosovo," he said.
But Mr. Seselj also promised Mr. Milosevic that he would support the Government in Parliament or not vote against it, and that he would not organize any demonstrations against the Kosovo deal in the streets, the officials said.
They noted that Mr. Seselj has few firm supporters of his own, but tends to draw defectors from Mr. Milosevic or from Vuk Draskovic, a former leader of the democratic opposition and now the head of the Serbian Renewal Movement.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The front page of the Belgrade weekly Vreme yesterday read, "The Ending." Yugoslav officials said that the peace settlement was slightly better than the one negotiated in France and rejected by Serbia earlier this year. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION AS SOON AS POSSIBLE INC (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; RUSSIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); REFERENDUMS (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ARMIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); ARMED FORCES (61%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



106 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: NEWS ANALYSIS;
Milosevic Remains, Souring A Victory

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
Like the war in the Persian Gulf, the war in Kosovo appears to be ending with major issues unresolved, not least the future of President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia and what the United States ought to do about him.
Although air power apparently achieved one of its greatest successes in the 10-week campaign in the Balkans, it did not bring about a change in government in Belgrade -- something that only an invasion by ground forces and a prolonged occupation could be expected to accomplish. So for the time being, the United States is stuck with a Serbian leader it neither likes nor trusts. 
 The parallels with Iraq are intriguing: Once again, a rogue leader, demonized by Washington, is emerging from a conflict with an apparently firm grip on power, with a significant part of his military forces fighting fit and with sovereignty over his country's territory technically intact.
President Clinton acknowledged today that NATO's terms for peace did not in any way address the question of Mr. Milosevic's staying in office.
"That question is left open," the President said. "He is subject to the terms of the international war crimes tribunal, which means that if he comes within the jurisdiction of any country that is cooperating with the United Nations, they would have an obligation to turn him over."
But a senior Administration official, speaking on condition that he not be identified, acknowledged, "That is not going to happen." On the one hand, Mr. Milosevic has been indicted in The Hague as a war criminal; on the other, he is for the moment NATO's indispensable partner in the effort to stabilize Kosovo.
"It's an awkward, embarrassing situation," said Michael Mandelbaum, a professor at Johns Hopkins University who advised Mr. Clinton on foreign policy issues during the 1992 election campaign. "Nobody's about to arrest him, but it's hard just to say, 'Never mind.' How can you let it pass when you went to war because you had to stop this evil man from committing genocide?"
The situation is complicated by the international tribunal's plan to send investigators into Kosovo when NATO and other peacekeepers enter that shattered province. Presumably, they will amass forensic evidence pointing to war crimes committed by soldiers and paramilitary groups operating under the direct orders of President Milosevic and his associates in Belgrade.
Ruth Wedgwood, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who specializes in international law, said it was "incongruous but not illegal" for a person indicted as a war criminal to hold high office and conduct a nation's business. "The facts of life," she said, rule out an arrest of Mr. Milosevic.
"The Administration's best hope is slowly to marginalize him politically," she said. "They would like to put him away like Greta Garbo."
Neither of the two Bosnian Serb leaders who were indicted as war criminals, Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, has been turned over to the authorities, even though NATO has tracked their movements and they have traveled through parts of Bosnia patrolled by allied troops.
Mr. Clinton has made clear that he expects the Europeans to pay the bulk of the cost of restoring Yugoslavia to economic health -- a rebuilding program that could cost as much as $6 billion. How much Congress would authorize in aid while Mr. Milosevic retains power could be a complicated question.
Richard N. Haass, the director of Foreign Policy Studies at the Brookings Institution, who worked at the National Security Council during the Bush Administration, said economic help other than food and medicine should be linked directly to the ouster of Mr. Milosevic.
"We want to give the Yugoslavian people every incentive to get rid of him," Mr. Haass said. "Every morning, they should get up, go out into the streets and see the results of this man's actions around them."
At one time, Mr. Milosevic appeared to be preparing the way for an escape to Greece or even South Africa, but that now appears to be unlikely.
An uprising against Mr. Milosevic, perhaps abetted by covert NATO operatives, remains a possibility, of course. Prime Minister Ljubco Georgievski of neighboring Macedonia suggested on Thursday that Mr. Milosevic would be ousted in a matter of weeks. But he gave no evidence to support that opinion, and Mr. Milosevic's grip on the army and secret police remains firm, American officials said.
One thing that might make an uprising in Serbia more likely than one in Iraq, which has often been predicted by American officials but has never taken place, is this: Yugoslavia is a much more developed society. The lives of ordinary people in cities there are more disrupted by bombardment.
If the pact as now constituted takes effect, Mr. Milosevic will have an "agreed number" of troops in Kosovo and more on the border. That troubles some Republicans, including Senator John McCain of Arizona, a candidate for his party's Presidential nomination. In a statement today, he asked several questions: How many Serbs? Permitted to do what? Based where? Armed, and if so, how heavily armed?
"Those are loopholes big enough to drive an armed battalion through," Senator McCain declared. "I don't know how you can convince Kosovars" -- ethnic Albanians expelled from their homeland -- "to return, much less give up their weapons, while there are armed Serbs in the neighborhood."
Signaling Republican hostility to the tentative agreement, Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, said he would use hearings this month to discuss "this Administration's misguided policy of appeasing Slobodan Milosevic" in Bosnia and Kosovo.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a green market in Pristina, the provincial capital of Kosovo, residents talked yesterday about the rapid political developments in Yugoslavia. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); GULF STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); GULF STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); IRAQ (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); WAR CRIMES (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); INDICTMENTS (87%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); EVIDENCE (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); ARRESTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); FORENSICS (66%); GENOCIDE (66%); JURISDICTION (66%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



107 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: House Speaker to Shift Tacks on Spending Bill

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, his bills stymied and his control of the House insecure, has decided to rewrite Republican spending plans and shift some money for increased military spending to ease cuts in social programs like health and education, key aides said today.
Mr. Hastert will tell the House Republican caucus on Monday that "we're going to trim off some of the allocations for Defense, Treasury, the legislative branch, and feed some of that back" into bills financing programs for labor, health and human services, education, housing and veterans' affairs, a senior Republican aide said. 
 "This will be a work in progress," said John Feehery, a spokesman for Mr. Hastert. "We are going to have to fight each bill." So far, the House has failed to pass a single one of the 13 appropriations measures that finance the Government for fiscal year 2000, which begins Oct. 1.
The Speaker, five months into his tenure, is having a hard time carrying out the Republican strategy: to be the party of national defense and fiscal discipline, pour new billions into Pentagon spending, freeze or cut everything else, preserve budget surpluses to underwrite promised tax cuts and pass the spending bills on time and in good order.
Today, only the Pentagon's windfall seems assured.
Under the original plan for the coming year, the Defense Department was to receive $19 billion more than it did this year; domestic programs were to receive $26 billion less. Under the evolving plan, several billion dollars would be transferred from the military ledger into domestic programs. Military spending would still rise and domestic spending would still fall, but by less than first planned. No final figures are set.
The new goal is to restore domestic spending cuts that moderate Republicans find intolerable, keep at least some conservatives happy and win over enough moderate Democrats to pass the bills. Until the House reconvenes on Monday, and the Republican caucus meets to discuss his plan, Mr. Hastert has no way of knowing how influential conservatives might react to it.
The shift would bring the House spending plan closer in line with the Senate's, which could help avoid another fiscal fiasco in September. But with a perilously slim 223-to-212 majority in the House, Mr. Hastert needs Republican unity to pass anything. He lacks it. And House Democrats will do little to help him achieve his goals.
When he became Speaker, Mr. Hastert vowed to make the money trains run on time. The trains had barely left the station last week when his own right wing began blowing up the tracks.
The year's first major spending measure, a $60.8 billion agriculture bill, was stalled last week by fiscal conservatives who, in the name of austerity and Social Security, vowed to block any bills that provided for an increase in spending. Then a $289 billion defense authorization bill imploded when Mr. Hastert could not summon the votes to bring it to the floor because Republicans demanded language barring ground troops from Kosovo and Democrats were denied a variety of amendments they had sought.
Now the Republicans' spending bills are in the lurch, their conservatives in revolt, their moderates frustrated and their leadership red-faced. They recall the 1998 budget breakdown and the 1995 Government shutdown and worry that their slim majority may be threatened by the appearance of ineptitude.
Peter Sperry, a budget analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think-tank in Washington, said that if Republican leaders "can't communicate a strategy to their members, they can't communicate a strategy to the American people, and if they can't do that, they are going to be in a world of hurt when they go up against the Democrats in 2000."
In the House, where spending bills traditionally originate, Republicans have allocated $270 billion for the Pentagon and $268 billion for every other arm of the Government combined. That $538 billion is what is left of the $1.75 trillion budget after paying for mandatory programs like Medicare.
And the way the pie was divided among the 13 House appropriations subcommittees set moderate Republican chairmen howling that the wealth was spread too thin. To Mr. Hastert's left, liberals warned that the Republican plan starved needy people and worthy programs. To his right, conservatives promised to hew to the cuts, stop dipping into surplus Social Security revenues and keep the spending caps enacted by Congress and the White House in 1997.
The caps held the budget down and helped create the surplus, but both Republicans and Democrats are asking if they still make sense in an era of economic prosperity. Mr. Hastert says the caps were a solemn promise to the American people.
This week, Mr. Hastert, prodded by his two Texan colleagues, the majority leader, Dick Armey, and the majority whip, Tom DeLay, went back to the drawing board and came up with two new ideas.
One aims to shift responsibility, or blame, for increased spending to individual members. A key Republican aide said the idea would "keep the caps but insert a trigger" to blow them away. "If members want to, they could vote on cap-busting amendments," he said.
The other idea "was changing the allocations, working with chairmen to take a whole new approach," another senior Republican aide said.
That would redistribute billions from the bills financing the Department of Defense, Congress, the Treasury Department and the Postal Service. The money would be shifted to two other bills. One finances the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, which took a $10.7 billion cut in this year's plan, to $78.1 billion from $88.8 billion. The other, for housing and urban development, veterans and several independent agencies, took a $5.7 billion cut, to $66.2 billion from $71.9 billion.
The Commerce, Justice and State Departments, which face a $3 billion cut, and the Interior Department, cut by $2.6 billion, might also have some money restored.
Conservative Republicans have promised to stop the spending bills unless each one is cut or frozen at last year's level. That forces Mr. Hastert to find 13 magic numbers: sums that will allow the 13 bills to win 218 votes in the House.
If he cannot, he will face a reprise of last year's last-minute free-for-all spending bill, loaded with $21 billion in extras financed from the Social Security surplus, or a repeat of the 1995 Government shutdown. In each event, House Republicans lost face, President Clinton gained political capital, and programs the Republicans wanted to cut or kill won new life. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS LEGISLATION (91%); APPROPRIATIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); VETERANS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (66%); TRAINS (63%); TALKS & MEETINGS (50%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER) J DENNIS HASTERT (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



108 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stocks Rally as Investors Expect a Fed Rate Increase
Stock prices rallied and bond prices moved slightly lower as investors signaled that many expected a rate increase when Federal Reserve policy makers meet at the end of this month. The selloffs in stocks since May 18, when the Fed first indicated it was leaning toward a rate increase, have been enough to compensate for higher interest rates, in the view of many investors. Sectors that had been hit particularly hard, including drugs, banks and technology stocks, helped lead the rally yesterday. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 136.15 points, or 1.28 percent, to 10,799.84, while the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose 28.21 points, or 2.17 percent, to 1,327.75. The Nasdaq composite index, which had dropped 10 percent from its recent high, jumped 75.02 points, or 3.12 percent, to 2,478.34. Page C3.
 
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond inched up to 5.96 percent, from 5.95 on Thursday. C3.
 
Bankers Trust Acquired; Jobs Cut
Deutsche Bank, sealing its position as the world's largest bank, completed its $9 billion acquisition of Bankers Trust and said it planned to phase out use of the Bankers Trust brand name. A round of layoffs also began at Bankers Trust with large job cuts in the fixed-income business. Deutsche has announced a plan to lay off 5,500 people from both companies over a three-year period. C2.
 
Merrill Lynch Starts Deal Talks
Merrill Lynch said that it would begin settlement discussions or seek additional information on about one-third of the 904 sexual discrimination claims filed against it by current or former employees. C4.
 
Japan Closes an Insurance Company
Japanese authorities suspended operations of the Toho Mutual Life Insurance Company, which has a link to GE Capital of the United States. Although Toho is only the second major insurer in Japan to go out of business since World War II, its trouble underscores industrywide problems. C2.
 
Philippine Airlines Raises Capital
Debt-ridden Philippine Airlines met the deadline to raise $200 million or face liquidation. But half the money comes from its largest shareholder, Lucio C. Tan. Creditors have been increasingly hostile toward him and may not support his bid to keep control of the carrier. And Cathay Pacific Airways is preparing for talks with its pilots to resolve a dispute that has grounded many of its flights since May 28, but analysts were cautious about the outlook for the talks. C2.
 
Resolution Sought on Gold Sales
The head of the International Monetary Fund, Michel Camdessus, said that he hoped the thorny issue of sales of gold from I.M.F. reserves could be resolved before the fund's annual meeting in September. The sale proceeds would be used to create a trust fund to aid poor countries. C2.
 
U.S. Tries to Undercut Microsoft
Microsoft introduced a host of evidence this week to show that the Netscape browser was still healthy and thriving. But in a single stroke, a Government lawyer undercut Microsoft's strategy by producing a Microsoft E-mail written in January suggesting that the company had cynically and selectively produced data to support this point of view. C4.
 
Amazon.com Seeks Court Ruling
Amazon.com sought a ruling in Federal court to allow it to continue posting the New York Times best-seller lists on line after the newspaper had demanded that the Seattle company stop publishing the lists in the absence of a licensing agreement. C3.
 
Patent Fraud Complaint Dismissed
A judge dismissed a Government complaint accusing Visx, the maker of vision-correction lasers, of patent fraud. C3.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,799.84 up 136.15
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.96% up 0.01
The Dollar -- 122.22 yen up 0.56

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (64%); GEC (LSE) (64%); GE (SWX) (64%); GE (NYSE) (64%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); 0293 (HKSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); TOHO MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (65%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (64%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (79%); CREDIT BUREAUS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (69%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (69%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); LIFE INSURANCE (63%); DISCRIMINATION (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



109 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Mayor and City Council Leaders Reach Budget and Tax Agreement

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
After two weeks of relatively painless negotiations, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and City Council leaders agreed yesterday on a $35.3 billion budget that takes advantage of record high tax revenues and contains only a smattering of tax cuts.
Mr. Giuliani and Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone gleefully announced the agreement in the City Hall rotunda, boasting that they had easily reached a consensus while politicians in Albany were still struggling to adopt a state budget that is now 66 days late. 
 In another swipe at state lawmakers, the two leaders said their only hurdle had been the Legislature's repeal of the city's tax on New York commuters last month, which could punch a hole of up to $360 million in the budget.
The sudden loss of revenue forced the Mayor and the Speaker to jettison many of their own tax cut proposals, they said, including cuts that would have helped businesses, working parents, home buyers and car owners.
But their budget plan still includes modest tax cuts, and spending increases for the Board of Education, the Police Department and many other agencies for the city's fiscal year, which begins on July 1.
"It's sweet because we were able to do an awful lot to enhance the quality of life in our city," Mr. Vallone said of the budget. "It's bitter, also, because in spite of all we've been able to do, for the first time ever we have had a hostile act from our brethren in Albany."
The agreement follows the framework of the budget that the Republican Mayor proposed last month, although Council leaders won some concessions. Mr. Giuliani allowed them to restore $165 million in cuts he had planned for cultural institutions, libraries and community programs. The Council extracted an additional $80 million for those programs, including $9.5 million for a summer reading program in libraries and $17 million for services for the elderly.
Mr. Giuliani also modified his plan to accelerate a class of 1,500 police recruits, agreeing to delay their hiring by three months. And he agreed, as he had been expected to do, to at least temporarily abandon his plan to use city funds for an experimental school voucher program, instead agreeing to spend $6 million to study several education ideas, including vouchers.
"I just ask that they keep their mind open," Mr. Giuliani said of the Council leaders who rejected his voucher plan, "because I'm going to come back and try to persuade you on the rest of it."
For its part, the Council accepted the Mayor's controversial plan to set aside millions of dollars for stadium construction in the future. But Mr. Vallone insisted that the amount come down to $90 million, from $96 million. And he demanded that the money come from the general budget, instead of from commercial rent tax revenue, as Mr. Giuliani had proposed. The Mayor also agreed to let the Council have a say in how the money is eventually spent.
Mr. Vallone also compromised in the area of tax reductions, agreeing to $348 million in cuts instead of the nearly $700 million he proposed in March. The most significant cut -- eliminating the sales tax on clothing and shoes that cost less than $110 -- was Mr. Giuliani's idea. That cut, which will take effect in December, will cost the city $134 million next year, growing to $237 million in 2001.
The budget agreement also extends a tax relief program for owners of co-ops and condominiums, worth $166 million a year, and provides an earned income tax credit for the working poor, worth $48 million a year. New York would be the first city in the nation to offer its own earned income tax credit, which would save the average family $100 a year. Both cuts would need approval from Gov. George E. Pataki and the State Legislature, which is by no means assured.
The city has sued to overturn the commuter tax repeal, and Mr. Giuliani said yesterday that if the suit succeeded, he might use that money to cut more taxes. "It's unfortunate that we couldn't do more tax cuts," he said, "but given what was done in Albany with the commuter tax, I think we've taken the responsible road."
The budget agreement still requires the approval of the full 51-member Council, but that is a formality because Mr. Vallone, a Queens Democrat, wields tight control over the Democrats, who have a majority. The Council is scheduled to vote on the budget on Monday. Mr. Giuliani, who has all but declared himself a candidate for the United States Senate, heaped praise on his own spending practices yesterday, saying he had dramatically improved the city's fiscal health by keeping spending under the rate of inflation and reducing budget gaps in the future.
"Even though they are still substantial, they are all below $2 billion," Mr. Giuliani said of the projected deficits for the next few fiscal years. "That is enormously important to the fiscal stability of the city, and it's something that was a perennial problem for the city of New York for 20 or 25 years."
Independent budget monitors said yesterday that future budget deficits remained a serious problem, especially since Mr. Giuliani's estimates do not account for potentially costly settlements with municipal workers. They questioned whether the $629 million that the Mayor is setting aside for unanticipated needs is enough, given that the local economy, driven mostly by Wall Street, could weaken.
The monitors also criticized Mr. Giuliani's use of the record $2.5 billion surplus to balance a budget that they said included some excessive spending, saying he should instead spend it to improve the city's crumbling infrastructure or to retire some of the city's $37 billion in long-term debt.
"In the best possible economic times, we shouldn't be using the surplus to help balance the budget," said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission. "This is a case of a strong economy camouflaging some bad budget decisions."
While Mr. Giuliani proclaimed that spending would decrease by 3.2 percent in the coming fiscal year Ms. Fortuna and other budget watchdogs said it would actually increase by about 4 percent. The city is not projecting a spending increase because, under its own accounting rules, the surplus is counted as being spent in the current fiscal year, even though the Mayor is using it to balance next year's budget.
But Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Vallone both insisted yesterday that the new budget was the most responsible spending plan in decades. Their chumminess -- the Mayor not only pumped the Speaker's hand, but kissed several Council members on the cheek -- contrasted sharply with last year's stormy budget negotiations, which broke off when Mr. Vallone refused to abandon a plan to hold a referendum on the future of Yankee Stadium.
The Mayor and the Speaker barely mentioned that battle yesterday. Instead, they emphasized that this time around, they had agreed on a new budget before the legal deadline of June 5. And they smugly hinted that the State Legislature should study their techniques. "More than anything else, we set an example as to how a legislature and a chief executive officer can work together collaboratively and adopt a budget on time," said Herbert E. Berman, chairman of the Council Finance Committee. "Not in a contentious manner, but with a view toward benefiting all the people."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS -- Cuts and Restorations on the Budget"
Some agencies whose budgets would have been cut in the Mayor's initial proposal will actually see increases under the spending deal worked out yesterday.
 
Mr. Giuliani proposed cuts that would have meant losses . . .
 
Proposed cuts (in millions)
Public Libraries: $41
Cultural programs: $23
Youth services: $20
Parks & Recreation: $7
Sanitation: $8
Elderly services: $1
Health services: $6
 
. . . but the Council managed to eliminate cuts and get more.
 
Gains (in millions)
 
Public Libraries -- $10
Cultural programs -- $2
Youth services -- $4
Parks & Recreation -- $4
Sanitation -- $1
Elderly services -- $17
Health services -- $8
(Source: City Council Finance Division)(pg. B2)
 
Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS -- Getting Tax Relief"
The new budget provides nearly $350 million in tax cuts from three main sources.
 
CUT: $48 million
SOURCE: Earned income tax credit
 
CUT: $134 million
SOURCE: Elimination of sales tax on clothing and shoes under $110
 
CUT: $166 million
SOURCE: Co-op and condo tax-relief program
 
(Source: City Council Finance Division)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; COMMUTING CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CITIES (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (87%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



110 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Clinton Looks to End Yugoslavia Air Strikes
President Clinton said he was "anxious to end the bombing" in Yugoslavia. The Pentagon said the 10-week air war could end as early as tomorrow if Serbia began withdrawing its forces from Kosovo. NATO air strikes continued, but avoided Belgrade. A NATO commander is to meet with his counterparts from Yugoslavia and Russia today. A1 

Allied commanders said NATO finally broke the will of President Slobodan Milosevic by finding new ways to destroy the Yugoslav military with virtually no losses to NATO. A1
 
NATO envisions disbanding the Kosovo Liberation Army and transforming many of its guerrillas into police officers. A1
 
Kosovo Update A4
 
Senate to Consider Holbrooke
Senator Jesse Helms, left, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said he would hold hearings on the long-stalled nomination of Richard C. Holbrooke to be the chief delegate to the United Nations. A6
 
Memorial in Hong Kong
More than 70,000 people turned out in Hong Kong to pay respects to those who lost their lives a decade ago at Tiananmen Square. It was the only major public commemoration on Chinese soil. A3
 
Two one-man protests near Tiananmen Square were immediately snuffed out by the police. A3
 
Election Tension in Indonesia
The police in Jakarta fired warning shots to halt an attack on supporters of the ruling party, a reminder of the dangers that surround Indonesia's parliamentary election. The election, on Monday, will be Indonesia's first free ballot since 1955. A8
 
South Africa Still Counting
The final outcome of the election was still in limbo as vote-counting continued slowly, with about half the ballots either unverified or containing errors. Though figures bounced up and down, the African National Congress clearly outstripped the opposition. But its chances of winning the two-thirds majority it had hoped for looked less certain than they did on Thursday. A3
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A9-11, 16
 
Struggling Speaker Shifts Priorities in Spending Bills
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, his bills stymied and his control of the House insecure, has decided to rewrite Republican spending plans and shift some money from the military, the Treasury and Congress' own allocations to social programs like health and education, aides said. A11
 
Gay Man Named Ambassador
President Clinton appointed James Hormel, 65, Ambassador to Luxembourg over Republican objections, using a rarely used executive privilege to make Mr. Hormel the nation's first openly gay envoy. A16
 
Clinton's Defense on Gun Issue
President Clinton, angered by a television interviewer's question about his commitment to gun control, delivered a stinging lecture on achieving the politically possible in a Republican-controlled Congress. A11
 
Law Officials Acquitted
A prosecutor and four sheriff's deputies in Illinois were acquitted of conspiring to put an innocent man on death row in the murder of a 10-year-old girl. A9
 
Fight Issue Still Unresolved
Jerry Springer, the talk show host, avoided giving the Chicago City Council a definitive answer on whether the fights among guests on his show are real or staged. A9
 
Co-Pilot's Recollection
Michael Origel, the injured co-pilot of American Airlines Flight 1420, told investigators that the MD-80 jet hydroplaned over the rain-slicked runway just before it crashed, killing nine people, including the pilot. But a member of the National Transportation Safety Board said physical evidence differed with Mr. Origel's recollection in the hospital. A10
 
The F.A.A. said it would strictly enforce a 1985 regulation intended to insure that pilots are properly rested before entering the cockpit. A10
 
University President Leaving
The president of the University of Chicago, Hugo F. Sonnenschein, 58, said he would step down next year and return to teaching. Some of his efforts to expand and modernize the university were opposed by students, professors and alumni. A10
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Consensus Budget Plan Contains Few Tax Cuts
Mayor Giuliani and City Council leaders agreed on a $35.3 billion budget that capitalized on record-high tax revenue and contains only a smattering of tax cuts. A1
 
First Lady Takes a Big Step
Hillary Rodham Clinton said she would take the first formal step toward running for the Senate by creating an exploratory committee. B1
 
Injured Firefighter Dies
Captain Vincent Fowler, 47, died about 14 hours after collapsing while trapped in the basement of a burning home in Queens. He was the fourth city firefighter to die in the line of duty in less than six months. B1
 
Police Brutality Case to Jury
The jury in the Abner Louima case began deliberations on the fate of four officers still on trial. After several hours, the jurors went home for the weekend, to return Monday. B3
 
Most New Yorkers are satisfied with the police, although the percentage is higher among whites than blacks, a Justice Department survey said. B3
 
Religion Journal B6
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-15
 
Germany Returns a Van Gogh
The foundation that runs many of Berlin's most prominent museums agreed to return a van Gogh drawing to the heir of a German-Jewish collector who was forced to auction the work just before World War II. B13
 
OBITUARIES C15-16
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
U.S. Boxing Inquiry
F.B.I. agents investigating accusations of payments and kickbacks for boxer rankings searched offices of the promoter Don King. D5
 
Going for the Triple Crown
Charismatic is the 2-1 favorite to win the Belmont Stakes today and become the first Triple Crown winner since 1978. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
Allied-Honeywell Talks
Allied Signal and Honeywell were said to be discussing a merger that would create a company with revenue of more than $24 billion. C1
 
Unemployment Stays Down
The unemployment rate dropped to 4.2 percent in May, equaling the 29-year low first reached in March. But payrolls increased by only 11,000 jobs, far fewer than the 343,000 jobs that were added in April. C1
 
Stocks End Week Higher
The Dow climbed 136.15 points, or 1.28 percent, to 10,799.84; the S.& P. 500 rose 28.21, or 2.17 percent, to 1,327.75, and the Nasdaq, which had dropped 10 percent from its recent high, jumped 75.02 points, or 3.12 percent, to 2,478.34. There was little change in the bond market. C3
 
Ruling on Internet Access
A Federal judge in Oregon ruled that a local government could force AT&T to share its cable lines with competing Internet service providers. C1
 
E-Mail Used Against Microsoft
A Government lawyer produced a piece of E-mail from January suggesting that Microsoft had cynically and selectively produced data to support its contention that the Netscape browser was still healthy and thriving despite Microsoft's all-out assault on the browser market. C4
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: Europe's new military aspirations; spending to stop smoking; finally, Mr. Hormel gets the job; Verlyn Klinkenborg on Mass MOCA.
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B14
TV Listings B15
Crossword B12
Weather C15
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); INDONESIA (94%); HONG KONG (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LUXEMBOURG (73%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (69%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); INDONESIA (94%); HONG KONG (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LUXEMBOURG (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); SHERIFFS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); CONSPIRACY (73%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); GUN CONTROL (65%); ACQUITTAL (61%); POLICE FORCES (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



111 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: THE OVERVIEW;
Bombing of Serbs Could End This Weekend, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
President Clinton declared today that he was "anxious to end the bombing" in Yugoslavia, and the Pentagon said the 10-week-old air war could end as early as Sunday if Serbia begins a troop withdrawal from Kosovo.
As Washington became more optimistic that peace in the Balkans was in fact at hand, Mr. Clinton also sought to assure the American public that the nation had pursued a "goal that has been worth fighting for" -- stability in Europe and the return of more than 800,000 ethnic Albanians to their homes in Kosovo. 
 "There is an enormous opportunity to be seized here," the President said in the ornate East Room of the White House, "a chance to shift our focus from defeating something evil to building something good, a chance to work with our allies to bring a stable and prosperous and democratic southeastern Europe in which people are never again singled out for destruction simply because of their religious faith or their ethnic origin."
With a meeting set on Saturday to hammer out a timetable for withdrawal and verification procedures, NATO kept up its bombing campaign for a 73d day -- hitting 51 targets in 24 hours, according to the Pentagon.
 Agence France-Presse reported Saturday morning that a NATO source said NATO and Yugoslav officials met at Djeneral Jankovic, on the Serbian side of the Kosovo-Macedonia border, at the border post at Blace, northwest of Skopje.
United States officials emphasized that most of the latest bombing was focused on forces in the field in Kosovo, and they said that they had yet to see any evidence of Serbian withdrawals. Yugoslav Army units clashed today with rebels trying to hold a strategic mountain called Pastrik. The Pentagon reported Serbian counterinsurgency operations against Kosovo rebels but said the intensity of the fighting seemed to have eased. But there were also reports that the Serbs were still forcing people from villages, officials said.
"I think it's important that we continue the military action against the military targets until we have some evidence that there are more than words here," Mr. Clinton said. The first article of the international peace plan accepted by Belgrade on Thursday requires the "immediate and verifiable end of violence and repression in Kosovo."
But there were clear signs that NATO was wrapping up its war effort and preparing to send a peacekeeping force into Kosovo.
For instance, the Pentagon's spokesman, Kenneth H. Bacon, said the United States had suspended the deployment of 36 F-15 fighters to Turkey.
If the end of the air war looked imminent, the political debate raged on over just what NATO and Mr. Clinton had accomplished with a military campaign that was limited from the start to an air war that would carry little risk of allied casualties. More than 800,000 ethnic Albanians were expelled from Kosovo by Serbian forces and now need to be returned to a devastated land requiring a vast reconstruction effort.
Democrats said this week's diplomatic breakthrough was a vindication of the President's policy and persistence with the air strikes. "It's clear the air campaign has been effective," said Senator Tom Daschle, the minority leader. "It has forced Milosevic to acknowledge that his options are running out."
One beneficiary of the accord was Vice President Al Gore. If all goes as planned, he will be able to seek the Democratic Presidential nomination free of the shadow of the air war, or of the possibility that American ground forces would invade Kosovo.
Republicans, however, were critical of the accord, emphasizing that President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, indicted on charges of war crimes, had not been toppled from power.
"I think it is right and proper that all parties work to find peace and justice in the troubled Kosovo region," said the Speaker of the House, J. Dennis Hastert. "However, we should not let exuberance get in the way of the hard reality that Slobodan Milosevic is still in control of Serbia."
Senator John McCain of Arizona, a Republican Presidential contender, pointed to President Saddam Hussein of Iraq as the model for the problems caused by leaving a dictator in power after a war. "The fact that it was an air campaign virtually guaranteed that he would remain in power," he said of Mr. Milosevic.
Similarly, Senator Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said: "It seems to me that the practical effect of this being a U.N. mission is that it would seem to guarantee Milosevic's continuation in power. Is that a good outcome, given the fact that we have labeled him a modern-day Hitler and he has been indicted in The Hague?"
The Belgrade agreement says that an international force in Kosovo would have "fundamental" NATO participation but be authorized by the United Nations. Senator McConnell and Senator Chuck Hagel, a Nebraska Republican, both warned that could mean that Russia and China could have too much control over the force.
Administration officials insisted that the force would have NATO troops at its core, with a NATO general in charge.
Senator Jesse Helms, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, demanded that the President seek formal approval from Congress before sending any troops into Kosovo.
He also served notice that he would use confirmation hearings, planned for this month, on the nomination of Richard C. Holbrooke as chief American diplomat at the United Nations to scrutinize American policy in the Balkans. He said the committee would explore Mr. Holbrooke's "role and responsibility for this Administration's misguided policy of appeasing Slobodan Milosevic." Mr. Holbrooke negotiated the Dayton accord that halted the war in Bosnia in 1995.
A senior Administration official said Mr. Clinton did not need Congressional approval to send troops and said the Kosovo force could be deployed in a matter of days.
The State Department spokesman, Jamie P. Rubin, argued that the 10 weeks of NATO air strikes had dealt a great deal of damage to Mr. Milosevic. "Clearly he is weaker," he said. "He is indicted. His country has been set back decades economically. His military has been largely broken through the air campaign. The reputation of Serbia has suffered mightily around the world."
Administration officials said there would be no Western assistance to rebuild Serbia until it became more democratic, and strongly suggested that Mr. Milosevic would have to be turned over for prosecution in The Hague before Serbia would be allowed access to international financial institutions like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
"It's fair to say we cannot imagine a situation in which President Milosevic remains in Serbia and all of the different pieces of the puzzle get put together," Mr. Rubin said.
The Pentagon said the vanguard of American troops for the Kosovo operation was aboard a three-ship Marine group en route to Salonika, Greece. About 2,000 marines would be the first American troops to move into Kosovo, as part of an international force that is to grow to 50,000. The United States has pledged to send a total of 7,000 troops.
Once they reach Greece, the marines will travel by road to Skopje, Macedonia, and wait for NATO to order them into Kosovo after the alliance can verify that a significant Serbian withdrawal is under way.
Mr. Bacon said Serbian forces would pull out of Kosovo from west to east. A buffer zone will separate Kosovo from the rest of Serbia, and will help insure that remnants of the Serbian forces cannot re-enter Kosovo or fire at NATO troops.
The Pentagon said the marines would patrol a section of eastern Kosovo assigned to the United States. They would then yield to Army troops and heavy armor from bases in Germany.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ethnic Albanians, mostly from the Kosovo town of Mitrovica, entered Albania at the Morini border crossing yesterday. They said they had been released from Serbian jails, and some said their captors had beaten them. (Jerome Delay/Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 
Map of Kosovo: "After the Agreement, Still More Bombing"
NATO's bombing of Yugoslavia continued the night after the peace plan was accepted. More than 600 sortes were flown against the Serbian positions. Targets continue to be hit. (pg. A4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); RELIGION (52%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



112 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
U.S. Presses Japan on Phone Network Fees

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration threatened today to bring a trade case against Japan if Tokyo does not honor commitments to expand sales opportunities for American telecommunications companies.
"We want to insure that Japan adopts pro-competitive market-opening reforms consistent with its obligations," the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, said in a statement. 
 She said the United States would monitor how Japan honored a pledge made last month to reduce fees charged American and other foreign companies to connect with Japanese phone networks, as well as a pledge to ease curbs on leasing telecommunications sites.
The AT&T Corporation and other American companies have long complained that Japan's Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Company charged high interconnection rates to stifle competition in such areas as long-distance service.
Ms. Barshefsky said that the Administration expected the commitments made during Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi's meeting with President Clinton last month to translate into "substantial reductions" in those charges.
If they do not occur, she said, the United States will begin preparing a case to bring before the World Trade Organization in Geneva.
Trade tensions between the world's two largest economies have been growing as America's trade deficit with Japan has increased, reaching $64 billion last year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%); NTT (NYSE) (56%); NPN (LSE) (56%); 9432 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (93%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (52%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (93%); NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (52%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (56%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (71%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BARSHEFSKY, CHARLENE (US TRADE REPR) BILL CLINTON (70%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



113 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Occupancy Falls Slightly As Hotel Room Prices Rise

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
Despite the tourist boom, the occupancy rate for New York City hotels has dropped for the first four months of this year compared with the same period last year, in part because the average cost of a night's stay has climbed above $200 and because more hotels have opened.
But industry experts say the hotel business in New York remains robust, with the highest occupancy rate in the country. 
 Throughout the city, hotel room occupancy for January through April stood at 76.5 percent, compared with 78.8 percent for the same period last year, according to figures compiled by PKF Consulting, a company that monitors the hotel industry. But prices have increased. The average daily room rate was $205.51 for the first four months of the year, compared with $195.93 during the same period last year.
Jason N. Ader, a lodging analyst for Bear, Stearns, said New York's hotel prices, which are the highest in the country, were depressing the occupancy rate. "As a hotel customer you say, 'These prices are exorbitant,' " he said. Whether consumers can expect to see lower room rates will depend on whether the occupancy rate continues to go down, industry analysts said.
Several other reasons were cited for the decline in occupancy, including the recent opening of several new hotels, including the Benjamin on East 50th Street and W on East 49th Street, and a decline in visitors from countries with unfavorable currency exchange rates.
But it is too early for the industry to panic, several analysts said. "As long as the economy stays strong," said Chuck Ross, a vice president of Smith Travel Research Inc., a Hendersonville, Tenn., company that tracks industry trends, "I think that people will travel, and New York is high on the list of destinations."
Still, the trend has caused some consternation among hotel executives, who have become accustomed to occupancy rates that have risen almost every year since 1993.
Bill Dunphy, the director of marketing for the Mark, a hotel on Madison Avenue whose rates run as high as $475 a night, said: "What everyone is complaining about is we had such a great year last year that everyone budgeted relatively aggressively for this year. You're disappointed when you're not bettering your numbers every year." Last month, the Mark had an occupancy rate of 84 percent, compared with 88 percent for May 1998, Mr. Dunphy said.
The decline in occupancy rates has not been accompanied by a decline in visitors to the city, said Fran Reiter, president of the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau. She said that about 35 million people are expected to visit the city this year, up from an estimated 34.1 million last year. (A visitor is defined as anyone who comes to New York from more than 50 miles away, even just for the day, who is not a commuter.)
But Ms. Reiter said that fewer visitors were coming from some of what she described as "key feeder markets" such as Germany, Brazil, Japan and Canada. The loss of tourists from those countries is being more than offset by the domestic market, she said.
Jurgen Giesbert, a vice president of New York and Connecticut Marriott Lodging, which operates or manages 10 hotels in New York, said the expanding supply of rooms accounted for what he described as "minute decline" in business. Marriott alone added 1,000 rooms in New York last year.
And more hotel rooms are coming. Even so, no one expects the hotel market to become oversaturated. John A. Fox, a senior vice president of PKF, the firm that tracks the hotel industry, said that about two dozen new hotels are expected to open by 2002, but the city might be able to support even more, depending on where they are.
Although the hotel market has softened, Dexter E. Wood Jr., a senior manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting firm, predicted that the industry would do very well during the final quarter of the year -- historically its strongest period -- especially because of the excitement over the millennium. In fact, he said, the market may already be bouncing back.
"I was trying to get a hotel room in New York last week," he said, "and I couldn't get one." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); TRENDS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TOURISM (78%); LODGING (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); AVERAGE DAILY ROOM RATES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



114 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS;
KOSOVO UPDATE

 BODY:

DIPLOMACY
 
* The British general who is to direct NATO forces in Kosovo is to meet today with his Yugoslav counterpart on the Serbia-Macedonia border to plan the Serbs' withdrawal and verification of the withdrawal. 

* Foreign ministers of the Group of Seven industrial nations and Russia are drafting a U.N. resolution supporting an allied force in Kosovo, though some allies say this step is not needed.
 
* The vanguard of the American contingent, 2,000 marines, is en route to a Greek port, then will move inland and remain on stand-by to patrol eastern Kosovo.
 
* The European Union named Javier Solana, Secretary General of NATO, to direct its foreign policy and security concerns. But Mr. Solana will stay at NATO until the Kosovo crisis is under control.
 
COMBAT
 
* NATO bombers swept over Yugoslavia again on Friday and early today but apparently avoided Belgrade.
 
* The Pentagon and the allies reported continuing Serbian attacks against Kosovars, but said the tempo of the attacks seemed to have lessened.
 
* Serbian artillery shells hit Albania along a 12-mile stretch of border and four people were injured, local police and international monitors said.
 
ON THE WEB
 
Continuous coverage of the conflict and the diplomatic progress to end it is available from The New York Times on the Web: http://www.nytimes.com 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); ALBANIA (78%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); ALBANIA (78%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FOREIGN POLICY (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); POLICE FORCES (58%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (51%); 

PERSON: JAVIER SOLANA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



115 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: U. of Chicago President to Return to Teaching

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER 

 BODY:
The president of the University of Chicago, Hugo F. Sonnenschein, whose moves to expand and modernize one of the nation's most revered universities became controversial, announced yesterday that he would step down next year and return to teaching.
Mr. Sonnenschein, a 58-year-old economist, came to Chicago in 1993 from Princeton University, where he had been provost. He soon began updating the University of Chicago, which has long nurtured a reputation for intellectual rigor. 
 He won acclaim for improving finances and modernizing the campus and the university's management, but some of his efforts to increase the size of the student body, trim the core curriculum and make the institution's image less severe met with the indignation of some students, professors and alumni.
The plans even led to the formation of a group of conservative intellectuals called Scholars for the University of Chicago that sought to block the changes. Among those involved were the author Saul Bellow, the sociologist David Riesman and the educator Mortimer J. Adler.
Mr. Sonnenschein's opponents expressed satisfaction yesterday and said the board of trustees had urged him to step down because it had grown weary of the controversy.
But the chairman of the board, Howard Krane, praised Mr. Sonnenschein and said it was going ahead with his plans.
"The board was fully informed about all of the issues involved in these initiatives, and our goal in approving them was to preserve and enhance our university well into the future," Mr. Krane said in a statement that was also signed by his designated successor as chairman, Edgar Jannotta. "Our resolve remains unchanged."
Mr. Sonnenschein issued a separate statement saying he had accomplished what he had set out to do, and adding, "I have come to feel that it is time for another president, one who is less a symbol of change and who has less reason to initiate change, to carry the momentum forward."
In a telephone interview, Mr. Sonnenschein acknowledged the existence of what he called "noisy minorities," but he said they had nothing to do with his decision to step down as president in June 2000.
"We have begun a collection of initiatives that couldn't be going better," he said. "The selectivity of the college is up, we have strong building programs and in 13 months I'll be nearing my 60th birthday and will go back to the best economics department in the country."
Aleem Hossain, 21, of Bolton, Conn., who is finishing his third year at the university and has helped lead a student movement opposed to the changes, said: "I see his stepping down as a concession that our points were serious. think that the expansion he started will go ahead but more slowly."
The university said the trustees would establish a search committee to find a new president.
Since early winter, when Mr. Sonnenschein's plans gained attention, some students and faculty members have agitated against them.
On April 20, Mr. Hossain and others organized a day of protest, called a "fun-in" to satirize the administration's emphasis on lightening the college's image. It drew 1,700 people. The university has 10,000 undergraduate and graduate students.
Undergraduates at Chicago take what is one of the most demanding core curriculums in the United States. Some say that is what drew them to the university, so that the plan to reduce the number of courses was unwelcome.
The courses are taught by professors in a small seminar style, and Mr. Sonnenschein's plan to increase the number of undergraduate students from 3,500 to 4,500 over 10 years without clear plans to increase the size of the faculty caused some to worry that such courses would be in danger of growing unwieldy.
But Mr. Sonnenschein's administration said the increase was manageable and necessary to insure the long-term economic health of the university. While the university's faculty is regarded as among the nation's best, its endowment and applicant pool are much lower than those of the top Ivy League institutions.
Mr. Sonnenschein believed that the university needed to attract a broader range of applicants, and thus had to make clear to high school students that life at Chicago was neither dreary nor a grind. To that end, colorful marketing brochures were drawn up; applications rose 25 percent this year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (96%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (96%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (96%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (96%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (73%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); 

PERSON: BRONNER, ETHAN; SONNENSCHEIN, HUGO F SAUL BELLOW (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



116 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: CONNECTICUT;
State Budget Spending Is Approved by House

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: HARTFORD

 BODY:
With economic good times and a $550 million surplus in the bank, the State Legislature yesterday approved a a $23.78 billion, two-year budget with more aid to schools and towns, $273 million in tax cuts and $50 rebate checks for most residents.
The budget passed with only two no votes and the tax cuts passed unanimously, despite lawmakers' persistent protests about the rebate and funding for favored projects. 
 Republican Gov. John G. Rowland has said he supports the budget and tax cuts.
The budget would increase about 4.8 percent to $11.62 billion next year and about 4.7 percent to $12.16 billion the following year. The budget would be under a spending cap that is imposed by law.
Most of the $550 million surplus was to be spent on one-time expenses, including extra payrolls, computer work, health care and to settle lawsuits.
About $110 million of the surplus would go back to taxpayers in the form of $50 rebates for any adult in the state who paid income taxes or collects Social Security, disability checks or other benefits. Checks would be sent this fall. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE LEGISLATURE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LEGISLATURE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); APPROVALS (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); SALES REBATES (57%); SUITS & CLAIMS (52%); 

PERSON: JOHN G ROWLAND (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1999



117 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: ON THE CONTRARY;
In Defense Of the Single and Childless

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST; Daniel Akst is a novelist and financial journalist. His column tilting at conventional business wisdom will appear the first Sunday of each month. E-mail may be sent to culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IMAGINE working for a company that bases compensation on family status. If you have a spouse and children, you are paid more, even though single, childless employees seem to work longer hours. Singles hardly ever reach the highest levels of management. And the company does just about everything it can to discourage single employees from mating.
Outrageous, no? You'd expect activists to be screaming about such blatant discrimination, and lawyers to be filling the courts with briefs. 
 Strangely, though, many American companies, hectored from almost every side to make the workplace "family friendly," are moving in exactly that direction. Magazines heap laurels on the best workplaces for working mothers, with their flexible hours, on-site child care and so forth. But who extols companies that treat everyone equally, regardless of family status?
Many companies blithely discriminate against childless singles by offering employee benefits that are worth most to people with families: health and life insurance, subsidized child care, pensions with survivors' benefits and so on. Those goodies add up to a major workplace inequality that stands unchallenged despite universal obeisance to the concept, at least, of equal pay for equal work.
Workplace favoritism for "family men" over "career girls" has historically been a nemesis of equal-rights advocates. Remember the episode of "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" in which Mary learned that a man in her job was paid more? The reason should be obvious, Lou Grant replied, as bosses have for decades: The guy's got a family.
If the equal-pay part of the equation is skewed, so is the idea of equal work. Who stays behind, after all, when the mom-and-dad exodus begins at 5:30 P.M.? Who shoulders the extra office burdens when a co-worker stays home with a sick child?
All of this buys singles no altitude on the corporate ladder. Unmarried chief executives are a theoretical possibility, but are rarely found in nature.
It's a miracle that most childless singles -- nearly one-third of all workers -- don't stay that way. In recent years, frantic efforts to desexualize the workplace may have had the unintended effect of forestalling matrimony for singles who spend so much time on the job they can't possibly meet people anywhere else. For every harasser or adulterer deterred by the reintroduction of taboos against office romance, dozens of potential healthy relationships must be nipped in the bud. Talk about a hostile work environment.
Policies that hurt singles probably land hardest on gay people, who cannot marry their partners, and, in most jobs, cannot even obtain benefits for them. It's a rare company these days that will acknowledge paying less or denying a promotion because an employee is gay, even in states with no laws forbidding it. Yet companies are proud of pro-family policies having the same effect.
Workers almost never claim discrimination for being single and childless. One reason is that they lack the protected status of other groups. Another may be that single, childless people like the environment at companies with family benefits. Lisa Levey, a management consultant with WFD Inc. in Boston, cites a "halo effect" that makes everyone feel better about companies that treat families well.
To be sure, the work burden may not be as unequal as people think. Mary B. Young of Boston University, who is writing a book about work-life issues for singles, surveyed employees at two large companies and found no difference in work time between childless singles and others, though nearly all thought singles worked longer.
THERE are signs that market forces are alleviating the problem. Many companies, especially small ones, are shifting the costs of employee benefits to workers or scrapping benefits entirely, producing a kind of equality of misery.
And for the growing legions of self-employed in the new "free-agent economy," it's strictly fee for services, regardless of one's home life. So you may get the fairest shake when you work on your own.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; SINGLE PERSONS; DISCRIMINATION; FRINGE BENEFITS FAMILY (91%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); EQUAL PAY (78%); CHILD CARE (78%); FLEXTIME (78%); WORKPLACE CHILD CARE (75%); LAWYERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); LIFE INSURANCE (68%); 

PERSON: AKST, DANIEL MARY TYLER MOORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



118 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: WASHINGTON HEIGHTS/HARLEM;
Tenant Dispute Becomes Battle Of Bedsheets

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL 

 BODY:
Tenants of two buildings on the same gritty block in Washington Heights are waging a battle of the bedsheets. At 515 West 174th Street, residents have draped spray-painted bed linens from their fire escapes accusing a community advocate, Victor Morisete-Romero of trying to evict them. Two doors over at 503 West 174th where Mr. Morisete-Romero is the well-liked building administrator, the sheets defend him as honest and capable.
In 1996, the city turned management of No. 515 over to Quisqueya Housing, a joint venture between the Community Association of Progressive Dominicans, of which Mr. Morisete-Romero is executive director, and the Manhattan Valley Development Corporation. Under the Neighborhood Revitalization Program, Quisqueya was to repair and manage the property for its low-income residents. After architects reported severe structural flaws, Quisqueya ordered the tenants to relocate temporarily so the building could undergo a gut renovation. 
 Five families voluntarily moved into apartments provided by the organization, but the rest, some of whom have lived in the building for 25 years, refused to go.
Manny Alvarez, 57, the president of the tenants association, called the test results "a pack of lies" and said the building was in excellent shape after the city spent $242,100 on renovations during the last five years. Many residents said they feared that if they left they would face higher rents on returning.
Tenants at 503 West 174th Street have praised Mr. Morisete-Romero for turning their building around. "The place is cleaner, we're recycling for the first time, every day they're doing something to improve someone's apartment," Fior Escano said.
Ms. Escano admitted that Mr. Morisete-Romero's own staff had made the signs to counteract negative publicity down the block but said the tenants were happy to display them. "Mr. Morisete is a professional and honorable man," she said.
The residents at No. 503 are not the only outsiders to be drawn into a political free-for-all. Mr. Morisete-Romero, an ally of Councilman Guillermo Linares, has lashed out at Mr. Linares's archrival, Assemblyman Adriano Espaillat, for supporting the tenants at No. 515. "If that building is left behind," Mr. Morisete-Romero said, "he will have to pay the price." An Espaillat aide responded that the Assemblyman had helped the tenants find legal counsel because it was his job to help them.
Spanish-language news organizations have covered the dispute, including one raucous episode on the cable program "TV Revista" in which Mr. Morisete-Romero and Mr. Alvarez shouted at each other. On another program, "Que Pasa New York," a resident, Dominga Gomez, blamed Mr. Morisete-Romero for "sucking the blood from poor Dominicans." A reporter called the situation "a tremendous scandal."
Residents at No. 503 and other buildings defend their hero staunchly. Still, the 515 West 174th Street Tenants' Association has vowed to maintain the pressure until Quisqueya Housing drops the project. The two organizations are scheduled to meet in housing court this Thursday. SETH KUGEL
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At 515 West 174th Street, a banner accuses Victor Moriste-Romero of trying to evict tenants. But at 503 West 174th Street, a sheet praises him as honest. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: QUISQUEYA HOUSING (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); EVICTION (79%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (79%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); LAWYERS (60%); JOINT VENTURES (55%); 

PERSON: MORISETE-REMERO, VICTOR; KUGEL, SETH ADRIANO ESPAILLAT (56%); GUILLERMO LINARES (56%); MANNY ALVAREZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



119 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
More Wealth, More Stately Mansions

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
THE beige, three-story mansion fills a one-acre lot on Clover Street in Memphis. Roof turrets, tall windows, columns that frame the front door at the head of a majestic, sloping driveway all heighten the impression of a palace incongruously placed in an ordinary suburb. The ranch house next door seems, by comparison, like a shack. It is empty, however, soon to be torn down so that another mansion can rise. And a neighborhood of small homes on large leafy lots gradually becomes a neighborhood of million-dollar mansions cheek by jowl.
"Such houses are conspicuous proof that a family has achieved a level of wealth way beyond its physical needs," says Kenneth Rosen, chairman of the Fischer Center for Real Estate at the University of California at Berkeley. "A mansion, more than luxury cars or anything else, shows everyone in the community that you are rich." 
 A wealthy doctor and his family recently moved into this particular six-bedroom brick mansion, with its cathedral ceilings, balconies, stately fireplaces and elegant rooms. But there are many Clover Streets springing up in the United States today, in new suburbs as well as in older ones where the demand for trophy mansions not too far from downtown has made the land more valuable without a home than with one.
So the homes are bought for the land by America's growing population of multimillionaires, who replace the existing houses with mansions. "In-fill," it is called in Memphis, and "teardown" in the Northeast. In the San Francisco area, it is known as the "scraper" phenomenon -- you buy a house, scrape it off the lot and build a bigger one.
THE million-dollar mansion -- or multimillion-dollar mansion, in some cities -- is emerging as a high-profile badge of the gilded late 1990's, not just in the traditional pockets of wealth, but also in Middle American cities like Memphis where such homes had been rare.
They are emblematic of an economic divide: The wealth generated in the boom that began in late 1995, while touching many people, has gone disproportionately and in huge quantities to the richest 5 percent of the nation's households. They have pocketed most of the gain from the stock market run-up, which has created thousands of multimillionaires overnight. And they have conspicuously channeled a big chunk of their gains into mansions.
There have been stock market run-ups in the past, of course, and mansions to show for it. But not since the 1920's, Mr. Rosen said, has mansion-building been as widespread as it is today. So much so that in some suburbs -- Scarsdale, N.Y., and Westport, Conn., for example -- restrictions have been placed on the teardown phenomenon, or are being considered.
One survey of large metropolitan areas turned up 9,257 new and existing homes that were sold for $1 million or more last year, up from 3,427 in 1996. And that did not count all the mansions custom-built by the families that occupy them.
Just how skewed is wealth creation in the late 1990's? And how many rich people have emerged to create such a historic surge in mansions?
A new study by Edward N. Wolff, a New York University economist who tracks the distribution of wealth in the United States, found that 4.1 million of the nation's 102 million households had a net worth of $1 million or more last year. That compares with 3 million such households out of 99 million in 1995, when the stock market really began to gain steam. (Net worth is calculated by first totaling a household's cash savings, the market value of its stocks and bonds and the value of a house and other holdings -- then subtracting all the debt, including mortgage debt.)
Rarely in history has there been such a rapid minting of rich people, Mr. Wolff said. While the number of American households rose by 3 percent over the three-year period, the number of million-dollar households jumped 36.6 percent. Make the wealth cutoff $10 million or more, and 275,000 households qualified in 1998, up from 190,000 in 1995, a 44.7 percent increase.
 FROM his analysis of Federal Reserve data, Mr. Wolff gleans another insight: While net worth grew for the richest 10 percent of the nation's households in recent years, the remaining 90 percent lost ground.
"The story is debt," he explained, referring to the source of so much consumer spending and home buying in recent years. "The middle class in particular has mortgaged itself to death, basically."
What if wealth had somehow been distributed more evenly -- and income, too, for that matter? Would there have been so many mansions? Probably not. A mansion that simulates a palace, in which a few family members rattle around in too many rooms, makes an unequivocal statement.
"Everyone," said Richard Sennett, a New York University sociologist, "understands this prize that only a few can afford."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Not Just a House"
A growing share of new and existing homes are selling for more than $1 million each according to surveys of major metropolitan areas that include about half of all home sales nationwide. The graph shows the percentage of homes sold since 1993. (Sources: First American Real Estate Solutions via National Association of Home Builders)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS (TENN); UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SUBURBS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INCOME; LIFE STYLES; SALES WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS KENNETH R ROSEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



120 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
Bengali Woman Writes Book, Takes Heat

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES 

 BODY:
Mina Saha Farah, a Bengali dentist who lives and works in Queens and has written for Bengali newspapers, insists that when she started out to write a book last November, she planned it as a critique of organized religion.
But the final product, which Dr. Farah is spending some $8,000 of her own money to publish next week, singles out Islam for the toughest criticism. It argues that a growing fundamentalism is blinding Muslim Bengalis, preventing them from joining the "high-tech revolution" and prospering economically, and relegating women to subservient roles. 
 "People should have the freedom to speak and to think," she said in an interview last week. "We are become more of a mosque-based society rather than a free-minded society."
Dr. Farah's thesis has been raised by many Western scholars But what is different is her role as a well-known member of the city's Bengali immigrant community. Since February, when word of her book and its title, "God on Trial," began circulating within that community, she has been criticized by some immigrant groups whose officials disagree with Dr. Farah's assessment of Islam.
The book, and the angry pre-publication reaction it has provoked, has brought into sharp relief divisions between religious and more secular Bengali immigrants over what role religion should play in America and how freely Bengalis should criticize Islam or their own community.
"Mina Farah should spend her money and her talents to help her community, not to divide it," said Showkat Ali, the president of the Bangladesh Journalists Association of North America, who lives in downtown Brooklyn. "We all have a responsibility to our culture."
Dr. Farah, who was born into a Hindu family and married a Muslim, said she does not consider herself a member of any particular faith. In the last few months, she said, telephone callers to her home have cursed her, called her a nonbeliever and made vague threats against her family.
The owner of the city's largest Bengali-language bookstore, Bishawajit Saha, said he had also received threatening calls, although he planned to stock "God on Trial" at his shop, Muktadhara, on 74th Street in Jackson Heights, Queens.
"Already some people have called, they say you don't do this," Mr. Saha said. "I know it is a controversial book but we respect democracy."
Mr. Saha said his store was vandalized in 1992 when he sold the novels of the Bangladeshi writer Taslima Nasrin, an outspoken critic of Islam.
But Dr. Farah's critics say she should not be compared to Miss Nasrin. "People might demonstrate and boycott against her, Abdul Quddus Chaudhury Mohammad, the director of the Muslim Foundation of America, said of Dr. Farah. "They might even excommunicate her. But I don't believe any illicit action will be taken. People enjoy the freedom of America. People are not going to jeopardize that." JULIAN E. BARNES
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mina Saha Farah has criticized organized religion in a new book. (Richard Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: GOD ON TRIAL (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ISLAM; BOOKS AND LITERATURE RELIGION (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WRITERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); BOOKSTORES (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); LITERATURE (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); BOYCOTTS (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (70%); 

PERSON: FARAH, MINA SAHA (DR); BARNES, JULIAN E MINA SAHA FARAH (97%); TASLIMA NASRIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



121 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
An Uneasy Standoff in a High-Fashion War

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
WHAT the Gucci Group really wanted was to get clean away from the dreaded embrace of Bernard Arnault. What it got was the uncomfortable prospect of a future with his company, its biggest rival, as its biggest minority shareholder.
A takeover battle over Gucci was decided a bit ambiguously on May 27, when a Dutch court approved the sale of a $3 billion controlling stake in Gucci to Pinault-Printemps-Redoute of France. Gucci, which is based in the Netherlands for tax reasons but has most of its operations in Italy, had agreed to the deal with Pinault to thwart the hostile bid by Mr. Arnault, chairman of the luxury goods maker LVMH Moet Hennessy-Louis Vuitton. But the decision did not affect the 20 percent stake in Gucci that LVMH has amassed. 
 Gucci is a hot property, and buying it would have given a needed jolt to Mr. Arnault's empire, which was hard hit by the economic crises in Asia. But Gucci's management thought being sucked into the corporate culture of LVMH would be deadly. Domenico De Sole, Gucci's chief executive, has ambitions far above being a satrap of Mr. Arnault: He wants to create a powerful multibrand luxury group big enough to challenge LVMH, whose portfolio includes Louis Vuitton luggage, Christian Dior fashions and Guerlain perfumes. To advance Mr. De Sole's plans, Pinault intends to sell to Gucci the Yves Saint Laurent couture and perfume business, which it had just acquired for $1 billion. Pinault, controlled by Francois Pinault, is also the owner of French department stores and Christie's auction house.
Mr. Arnault, who has not conceded defeat, is threatening to appeal the court's ruling and ask that the Pinault deal be declared illegal.
Moreover, while Gucci may be red-hot, its stock price has been cold lately, falling 6 percent the day of the court decision and then drifting downward. (It closed on Friday at 62.45 euros.) That is partly because speculators who had bet that Mr. Arnault would raise his bid for Gucci after the decision have sold in disappointment. But the decline also reflects investor hesitance about Gucci's ability to digest a mouthful the size of Yves Saint Laurent.
One analyst, Nathalie Saleur of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, estimated that the Yves Saint Laurent takeover could dilute Gucci's profits by 10 to 15 percent. Gucci lacks a track record in integrating big acquisitions, she said, and "the market prefers to wait for evidence."
 Mr. De Sole is in a hurry to supply it. He met with Mr. Pinault last week to discuss the start of legal groundwork for the Gucci-Yves Saint Laurent combination; barring surprises, that agreement could be signed by the end of July. Mr. De Sole, meanwhile, is arranging a trip to the United States to explain his plans to institutional investors who are among Gucci's most fervent backers.
SUCH quick acceleration is in line with Mr. De Sole's record. Since he took Gucci public in 1995, sales have exploded -- to just under $1 billion in 1998, from $264 million. Crises in Asian economies caused luxury goods sales to crumble last year, but Gucci used a timely expansion in the United States and a shift from accessories to ready-to-wear garments to maintain growth.
Despite its recent weakness, the price of Gucci's stock has grown more than fourfold since it went public in 1995. Mr. De Sole, together with Tom Ford, the designer of the hour, have built Gucci into a fast-growing fashion darling.
By contrast, profits at LVMH, the luxury market leader, sank 29 percent last year, dragged down mostly by weakness in Asia, though its recovery in the first months of this year has been remarkably strong.
But analysts say the gap between Gucci and LVMH is largely a question of fashion leadership, with Italian houses like Gucci, Prada and Armani rivaling the French. "Italy has a tremendous degree of creativity and resources," said Henry Welt, an expert on luxury goods at the New York law firm of Kronish, Lieb, Weiner & Hellman.
Indeed, LVMH shares leapt Friday on a report, denied by the company, that it was in talks to acquire a stake in Armani. The stock closed at 276 euros, just off its 52-week high.
To revive LVMH's ateliers, Mr. Arnault turned to Britain, hiring young designers like John Galliano at Christian Dior and Alexander McQueen at Givenchy. But Italy, Mr. Welt said, "brings to the table a number of things the French don't have," like related technologies in fabric and leather finishing. That, in part, was why Mr. Arnault wanted Gucci in the first place, he said.
Mr. De Sole says that, though integrating Yves Saint Laurent will be a challenge, his plans for Gucci are far from exhausted. Last year, Gucci paid $150 million to acquire the Swiss company that supplies its watches. Gucci has already introduced a line of jewelry in its own stores, and next year will begin selling it in 300 top-of-the-line stores worldwide. And it continues to open new stores in Japan, Europe and the United States.
ALL that expansion should please shareholders, making it relatively unlikely that Mr. Arnault could make much trouble from his 20-percent shareholding stronghold. Mr. De Sole categorically rules out a board seat for LVMH, and while Gucci bylaws permit shareholders with more than 10 percent of the company to convene an extraordinary shareholder meeting, it is unclear what such a gathering could accomplish for Mr. Arnault as long as Gucci is thriving.
According to Mr. Welt of Kronish, Lieb, LVMH could make a nuisance of itself by requesting privileged financial data, but Mr. De Sole said no single shareholder would be favored. "We're an incredibly transparent company," he said.
More likely, Mr. Welt said, the effect of Mr. Arnault's restive presence will be to keep Gucci management from becoming complacent.
Some analysts say the biggest challenge for Gucci, awash with acquisition cash, may be finding suitable brands to swallow. "Italian families seem quite content," said John Wakely of Lehman Brothers. "What is Gucci going to do with the cash?"
Still, Mr. De Sole says he will begin massaging prospective takeover targets right away, given the slowness with which Italian family-run companies with prestigious names tend to make decisions. John Grace, executive director of Interbrand, a brand consulting company in New York, said that, at any rate, Gucci was on the right track, adding that "as Cecil B. DeMille said, everything's negotiable."
"Gucci's doing the absolutely right thing," Mr. Grace said. "They're building a portfolio."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bernard Arnault, LVMH chairman.; LVMH may have lost its fight to take over its luxury-market rival, the Gucci Group, but it still casts a long shadow by owning 20 percent of Gucci's shares. Window shoppers gazed into the Gucci store in Paris. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Graph: "A Fashion Feast"
Gucci has posted growing sales and earnings since it went public in October 1995. The graphs show revenue, net income and the stock price since 1995. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MC (PAR) (98%); LVMH (BIT) (98%); PP (PAR) (94%); PP (BIT) (94%); CDI (PAR) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (98%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (98%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (94%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (94%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (94%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (94%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (94%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (80%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (80%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (80%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (58%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (91%); NETHERLANDS (88%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

COMPANY: GUCCI GROUP; LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA; PINAULT-PRINTEMPS-REDOUTE SA; YVES SAINT LAURENT RIVE GAUCHE LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (98%); PPR SA (94%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (80%); CHRISTIAN DIOR SA (58%); GUERLAIN SA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUCCI GROUP; LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA; PINAULT-PRINTEMPS-REDOUTE SA; YVES SAINT LAURENT RIVE GAUCHE

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (91%); NETHERLANDS (88%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SUITS AND LITIGATION LUXURY GOODS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); LUGGAGE MFG (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); HAUTE COUTURE (73%); CORPORATE CULTURE (72%); APPROVALS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); APPEALS (50%); 

PERSON: DE SOLE, DOMENICO; TAGLIABUE, JOHN BERNARD ARNAULT (91%); FRANCOIS PINAULT (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



122 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
The Case for a Rate Increase is Still Strong

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
INVESTORS, it seemed, were ready to concede that the Federal Reserve would have to raise interest rates to slow growth and curb inflation.
But when the May employment report was released on Friday morning, there was a surprise. Job growth was unexpectedly weak. Instead of an increase approaching 220,000 new nonfarm jobs, as Wall Street had forecast, there were only 11,000. 
 "It didn't give you closure," lamented Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company. "We can't say we're done."
Yet this surprising report should not change the outlook for the economy. (It is still strong.) Or interest rates. (They should move higher.) Or the intent of the Fed. (It should raise rates soon.)
Of course, one could conclude otherwise by focusing on the nonfarm jobs data, which were weak in May and have not been disturbingly strong for the year, increasing at a monthly average of 197,800. But that focus would be deceiving.
Consider the rest of the economic data released last week, although with much less fanfare than the jobs report.
* The factory index of the National Association of Purchasing Management jumped to 55.2 in May, its highest level since October 1997. Prices paid to producers also rose.
* Car and truck sales are soaring, with the annual rate in May hitting 17.1 million, a May record and the fifth highest ever.
* Sales of new homes in April jumped 9.2 percent, to an annual rate of 978,000, the second-strongest month on record.
* Sales in stores open at least a year rose 5.6 percent.
All this indicates that consumers are still spending while the nation's weakest sector, manufacturing, appears to be rebounding.
On top of this, the underlying data in the May jobs report were stronger than indicated by the meager nonfarm jobs increase.
The reason for that surprisingly small overall gain was a decline of 40,000 in construction jobs and a plunge of 45,000 in manufacturing. In addition, the service sector created just 71,000 jobs, well below its average of 125,000 over the last 12 months.
Construction jobs have been rising and falling with the weather, jumping 44,000 in April before last month's decline, on a seasonally adjusted basis. Since March of last year, 453,000 manufacturing jobs have been lost as recessions in Asia and Latin America slashed demand for American goods.
But while jobs have been declining, the growth rate of average hourly earnings in manufacturing is rising again. For all of last year, average hourly earnings for manufacturing were up just 1.6 percent. So far this year, they are up 4.3 percent at an annual rate.
The slowdown of wage increases in manufacturing had helped restrain overall wage increases, allowing the growth rate to decline while the economy was booming. That mitigating factor now appears to be gone.
The closure sought by Mr. Barbera must wait for the release of other key data ahead of the Fed's policy-making meeting on June 29 and 30. Those include the Government's formal tabulation of retail sales for May, to be released on Friday, and the Labor Department's measure of consumer prices for last month, due on June 16.
If they are strong, retail sales will serve to prove that the consumer has bounced back after a weak March and April. The Consumer Price Index for May will show whether the April gain of 0.7 percent, the largest monthly jump in eight and a half years, was a fluke. And if it is possible to scrutinize Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, any more closely, investors will do so on June 17, when he is scheduled to testify before Congress's Joint Economic Committee on monetary and economic policy. Many expect him to use the occasion to signal that a rate increase is coming.
BEYOND the data, there is another reason the Fed should move rates higher. Based on the movement of the many market barometers of investor sentiment, a quarter-percentage-point increase in the Fed's short-term interest rate target, to 5 percent, is already expected.
That means the Fed could raise the rate on overnight loans between banks -- the Federal Funds rate -- without too much disruption, argued Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist at Salomon Smith Barney. In fact, he added, "the Fed might cause more questions if they do not."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Rate Harbinger?"
The yield on the Federal funds futures contract for August has passed 5 percent, showing that many investors expect an increase of more than a quarter-point in the Federal Reserve's interest-rate target, currently 4.75 percent. The graph shows the change since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM HOENIG & CO INC (71%); HOENIG & CO LTD (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (66%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); STATISTICS (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (88%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



123 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: The World;
New U.S.-Iran Dialogue: Psst. Mumble. Huh?

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: CAIRO

 BODY:
TEHERAN is abuzz again, divided now over whether America really is still the Great Satan. And as usual, the ferocity of Iran's internal power struggles make it hard to know just what is going on.
This time, though, the confusion seems to run two ways. This Iranian row seems to have been prompted by American mixed signals -- tantalizing but ambiguous all the same -- about whether the United States is ready to go easier on Iran. 
 Unless you are in the Middle East, you may have missed all this; just about everywhere else, the crisis in Kosovo has exhausted people's attention. So here's a quick primer on the latest in American-Iranian relations -- the winks, nods and backhanded slaps that may amount to a lot or to absolutely nothing at all.
First, on April 12, President Clinton told a White House audience that Iran had been subjected to "quite a lot of abuse" over the years; it was important to tell people, he said, "Look, you have a right to be angry." In Iran, ears perked up, particularly among political moderates. Was this a first step toward a long-sought American apology?
Ten days later, a State Department official showed a colder hand. Certainly, said Martin S. Indyk, an Assistant Secretary of State, the United States wants dialogue with Iran, but first on the agenda would be those old subjects that make Iranians cringe: terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. Aha, Iranian conservatives pronounced. A good-guy-bad-guy routine, nothing more than American mischief!
At the end of April came a flurry of paper from the American Government. One rule eased the way for Iranian scholars to travel to the United States, another softened sanctions half a notch by allowing food and medicine to be sold to Iran. Then came a State Department report that again identified Iran as a sponsor of terrorism -- but not, as in the past, as the world's leader in that field.
It all amounted to nothing more than a "diplomatic smile," complained Iran's Foreign Minister, Kamal Kharazzi. A better summation might have been that it simply left just about everyone more confused.
"These Americans are crooks," Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati, the head of Iran's judiciary, warned in one Friday sermon as he sounded the conservative line. "Why are some people so naive as to believe in them?"
By contrast, the moderate Iran Daily said it saw the beginning of "a new chapter" and declared: "It is high time to insure practical steps for normal ties."
It seems clear that Iran's President, Mohammed Khatami, is open to warmer ties with the United States. But he remains hemmed in by Iran's conservatives, led by the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. As recently as mid-May, a delegation of senior clerics appointed by Mr. Khamenei presented Mr. Khatami with a petition saying that the time was not right for Iranian-American relations to be restored.
Ever since those ties were broken off after the Iranian revolution of 1979, conservatives have tried to squelch talk of a detente. They have reminded just about anyone who would listen that Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the founder of the Islamic Republic, once likened Iranian-American relations to those between sheep and wolf.
But for a year and a half now, Mr. Khatami's moderate Government and the Clinton Administration have been cautiously swapping hints of a willingness to explore moving toward warmer ties. And some Iranians, eager for improved trade, have begun to read into the American overtures a reason for rapprochement.
"The United States may still be a wolf, but Iran has turned into a lion," Mehdi Karrubi, a longtime anti-Western firebrand who has become a Khatami ally, declared last month, neatly suggesting that Mr. Khomeini's warnings belonged to a distant era.
Officially, Iran's Government has ruled out direct talks until Washington redresses past wrongs, presumably by lifting economic sanctions and unfreezing millions of dollars of Iranian assets held in America.
WASHINGTON, for its part, has said it is ready to talk -- but that there can be no revival of economic ties until Iran takes the concrete steps that Mr. Indyk outlined in his April 22 speech: halting support for terrorism, abandoning opposition to Middle East peace and giving up efforts to acquire weapons of mass destruction.
In practical terms, that leaves the two countries at loggerheads, despite the feelers each has sent since January 1998, when Mr. Khatami, in a CNN interview, called for a "dialogue of civilizations" and in effect apologized for the November 1979 takeover of the United States Embassy in Teheran.
Still, every subtle signal is carefully digested, and Mr. Clinton's remarks in April were hailed by moderate Iranian newspapers and some politicians as at least a first step toward an American apology.
The President's statement, which surprised even his foreign policy advisers, included this sentence: "I think sometimes it's quite important to tell people, 'Look, you have a right to be angry at something my country, or my culture, or others that are generally allied with us today, did to you 50 or 60 or 100 or 150 years ago.' "
In Iran, provincial governors welcomed the words as Mr. Clinton's "acceptance that the demands of the Iranian people are just." Mr. Khatami's Government, on the other hand, has had to be more circumspect; its continuing war with the powerful conservative bloc has left Mr. Khatami wary of being portrayed as bowing to the United States. In its official statements, Iran has gone so far as to say only that America might be showing "greater realism."
And, certainly, the hesitation also runs both ways. No matter how the Iranians or analysts of the Iranian-American relationship have tried to interpret this murky dialogue, Administration spokesmen keep insisting that American policy has not changed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Should America and Iran talk? These World Cup soccer fans in France last year seemed to have an answer. (Allsport)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOSOVO (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (76%); IRAN (74%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOSOVO (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (76%); IRAN (74%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); CONSERVATISM (87%); TERRORISM (86%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SPORTS FANS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (64%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; INDYK, MARTIN (ASST SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KHATAMI, MOHAMMAD (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



124 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2835 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Still FeedingAn Internet Frenzy

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif.

 BODY:
THE ink on the first draft of the history of the Internet stock boom isn't yet dry, and the revisionists are already having their say.
Even as Internet shares were tumbling from their highs, three of the companies backed by Accel Partners, a venture capital firm, went public last month. Though their net losses total $56 million, the three now have a combined market capitalization of $10 billion. "Astounding," James W. Breyer, the firm's managing partner, calls that performance, echoing the giddiness common in Silicon Valley when people talk about the Internet. 
 But in the same breath, Mr. Breyer decries the shortcomings of the crop of new offerings following in his companies' footsteps. "We've had far too many low-quality companies go public," he scoffed. The recent market turmoil that has sliced the value of many Internet stocks in half is making investors more discriminating, he added approvingly: "Investors can more easily distinguish between companies building a long-term business and those which have been merely opportunistic."
Ah, to be a master of the Internet universe and not only make business history, but spin it, too. As some of the air leaks out of the Internet stock bubble, the same people who manufactured the feeding frenzy -- the venture capitalists, entrepreneurs and investment bankers who have been the biggest promoters of the phenomenon -- are beginning to say it may have spun out of control. Stocks not ready for prime time were foisted on a welcoming public lusting for the big score, they now say. In Silicon Valley's effervescence the past few months, discretion lost out to greed.
And yet even as they apply the rhetorical brakes to careening Internet mania, those same financiers are stepping on the gas, racing to bring companies to market before the Internet euphoria disappears. Some investment bankers say clients are asking them to pull together "road shows" -- in which executives pitch their companies to prospective buyers -- in little more than two weeks, half the usual time. And many of the bankers, supposed arbiters of a company's market-worthiness, are only too happy to oblige.
"Right now it's hang onto the rocket ship and giggle all the way to the moon," said Mark G. Shafir, an investment banker at Merrill Lynch in San Francisco.
 Already, 59 Internet companies have gone public this year -- compared with 30 in all of 1998, according to Thomson Financial Securities Data, which tracks such numbers. Fifty-six percent of the 212 Internet and Internet-related companies filing plans to go public with the Securities and Exchange Commission since January 1994 did so in the last six months. May was the busiest month on record, as 35 companies registered with regulators.
That pace concerns David Menlow, who, as the longtime president of IPO Financial Network, a firm in Milburn, N.J., that tracks new offerings, has seen his share of hysteria on Wall Street. Even he is stunned at the crush of companies rushing to go public since Internet stocks hit a record high in mid-April.
Mr. Menlow's most recent newsletter is chock-full of comments on the new crop, and few are charitable. "Right church, wrong pew," he writes about one Internet-related medical concern. "Talk about swimming upstream," he says of a company that creates computer operating systems.
The market for Internet stocks is still fertile, Mr. Menlow said, but companies like these will be judged more harshly in coming months, since the euphoria over the sector has ebbed. "Before, the window was wide open," he said. "Now the window has a fine mesh screen."
Yet with Silicon Valley still working overtime to generate excitement -- and the transformative power of Internet innovation a genuine, powerful lure -- investors can be said to share a new caution only if their behavior is judged against the hysteria of the last few months.
In January, according to Securities Data, initial public offerings of Internet companies averaged a first-day gain of 248 percent. By the end of May, with so many deals to choose from and appetites waning a bit, that gain had dwindled to 73 percent.
Fearlessly, though, Silicon Valley financiers are developing ways to institutionalize the Web frenzy. Venture capitalists are demanding that shares of some new companies be sold on line, where Internet-hungry investors are abundant. And some neophyte investment firms see that as an opportunity to supplant the more established banks. Looked at innocently, they are aiming to democratize investment. Looked at cynically, they are looking to give every investor equal standing in the hype.
Some Silicon Valley veterans believe it is time for some cooling.
"I actually despair what is going on in the Valley," said Judy Estrin, chief technology officer at Cisco Systems, herself an entrepreneur who was a co-founder of three companies. "It used to be if you had good products and you took care of your clients and customers, you'd win. That's not enough anymore. Today it's more about marketing hype and rising above the noise level."
That may be overly pessimistic. Most here are ecstatic at the speed and breadth of innovation that the Internet has unleashed. But for the financiers, one thing is certain, even with Web shares down: It doesn't get much better than this.
 
Grabbing for a Slice of Ebay
Many of Silicon Valley's venture capitalists and investment bankers ply their trade in Menlo Park, not far from grassy pastures dotted with cows and an occasional deer. There, in the 2700 block of Sand Hill Road (more aptly named "Stand Still Road" when rush-hour traffic clogs the four-lane route), two of the fiercest competitors in investment banking have set up shop. A small, flower-filled courtyard separates the offices of rivals Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and the Goldman Sachs Group, their buildings connected by a covered walkway 100 yards long.
It's an intimacy rare even in a place where deals are cut at Saturday-morning soccer games. "We have a pact not to go through the trash," joked Eff W. Martin, a Goldman partner, pointing at Morgan's offices through a slit in the window blinds.
Still, the arrangements seem a bit cozy, as if what the bankers have in common -- their insider status in a very rich game -- trumps any antagonisms. Bradford C. Koenig, Goldman's co-head of high technology, employed the same nanny later hired by Rex Golding, a Harvard Business School classmate and his counterpart at Morgan Stanley. And it is not uncommon to see bankers from both camps schmoozing at the same Valley soirees.
On Wall Street, investment bankers sit at the top of the financial pyramid; here they mainly play the role of courtiers. The true princes of finance are the venture capitalists, who invest in start-ups with the hope of a big payoff when a company goes public or is sold.
More Internet venture dollars are chasing deals than ever before. Funds raised by venture capitalists have blossomed in the past four years, from $774 million in 1995 to $4.9 billion last year, according to the VentureOne Corporation. Jonathan Lee, an entrepreneur in Redwood City, Calif., who last September started a company called Corio that distributes business software over the Internet, said he was approached by no fewer than 20 venture capital firms, including the godfather of Silicon Valley venture capital, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.
In the 1980's, "there wasn't a countervailing presence to the lunacy of the bankers," said Gary Rieschel, managing general partner at Softbank Technology Ventures, an early investor in Yahoo, the Internet directory service. "Now you have the lunacy of the venture capitalists to counter the lunacy of the bankers."
Indeed, this decade's venture capitalists have much in common with bankers of a decade ago who hired publicists to promote themselves and their successes. In keeping with the spirit of the companies they finance, most have their own Web sites and are skilled at creating a buzz loud enough to rise above the Valley static.
One of the more accomplished is Robert Kagle, a venture capitalist at Benchmark Capital in Menlo Park. Benchmark was an early investor in Ebay, the on-line auction company that has seen its share price climb more than 1,000 percent since going public last year.
Mr. Kagle, 43, a Michigan native who, like many Valley veterans, moved to Palo Alto to attend Stanford Business School and never left, is self-deprecating. "Some venture capitalists see themselves as the center of the universe," he said. "We see it as a service business."
Yet even as he shares credit with colleagues for his successes, Mr. Kagle is an adept salesman for the companies he backs. In a recent interview, for instance, he readily volunteered that he collects antique fishing decoys -- bought through Ebay, of course. And he strained to use the term "Ebaysian" ("pronounced e-BAY-ze-an," he said) no fewer than five times in a 35-minute telephone conversation.
Why? It is his attempt to introduce Ebay culture -- which advocates the equal standing of every bidder -- into the new language of the Internet, a bit of manipulation that he doesn't deny and even laughs about.
No other Internet company has been so hotly fought over as Ebay, and the story of its public offering suggests how eager bankers are to hook up with a company they think will be a winner.
In May 1998, when Mr. Kagle and Ebay's chief executive, Meg Whitman, invited investment banks to pitch for the job of taking the company public, Goldman and Morgan jumped at the chance. Ms. Whitman had one peculiar demand: When they came calling, each bank had to bring an item bought on Ebay.
A team of eight Goldman executives entered Ebay's headquarters, bags crammed with charts, market data -- and Tank the Armadillo, a Beanie Baby that Mr. Koenig had bought for his 7-year-old son, Austin, for $32.75 in an Ebay auction. Michael K. Parekh, an analyst, had a 25-year-old Parcheesi game that he had bought for $110. He also presented the Ebay executives with a sample research report before the Goldman team swept them off to dinner.
"It was clear they would be a leader in this market," Mr. Koenig said, explaining the avid campaign. "The more time we spent on the site, we realized it was a whole new dimension in personal trading."
Goldman's inventiveness struck a chord with Ebay, though Morgan Stanley was dogged, too. Its executives also logged hours on Ebay's Web site, buying fine French wine and a couple of piggy banks in which Ebay could stuff its newfound money. But "they didn't display as deep an understanding," Mr. Kagle said. And it cost Morgan the job.
The bankers were devastated. "We walked out of the meeting right then and knew that it didn't click," said Mary Meeker, Morgan's celebrated Internet analyst -- "Queen Mary" to her fans, "Bloody Mary" to her detractors and a stock-moving powerhouse in the eyes of both. Ms. Meeker was convinced that Ebay would be a market leader, and after Morgan lost, she quickly went to work repairing the relationship.
She spent hours getting to know Ms. Whitman, including a dinner at Logan Airport in Boston last July, one of several meetings over a period of months. In August, Ruth Porat, Morgan's co-head of global technology and Ms. Meeker spent an evening on the phone with Ms. Whitman, critiquing Goldman's road-show presentation. They suggested that the company demonstrate its users' enthusiasm better; as a result, Ebay created slides listing some of the thousands of items for sale related just to the baseball superstar Mark McGwire.
Ms. Meeker also took the unprecedented step of publishing a favorable research report the day after Ebay began trading last September. (Analysts usually like to wait until the company has a track record before giving an endorsement.) Goldman was legally barred from talking up the stock for 30 days after the offering, Ms. Whitman noted, "so Mary became the one the press called. She became associated with Ebay."
Morgan Stanley's hard work paid off. In March, Goldman lined up investors for Ebay's $1 billion secondary stock offering but was forced to share the business with Morgan. Goldman chafed at the concession but was powerless to prevent it.
"Morgan earned it," Ms. Whitman said.
 
Marketing to the Mania
 If there is any question that technology is transforming business, investors need look only at the most staid rite of passage on Wall Street: going public.
It used to be that for a standard 7 percent underwriting fee, bankers would herd management onto a chartered jet for a two-week road show, cram in 10 to 12 meetings a day with mutual fund managers and other investors and hope to end up with a list of interested buyers -- with a tiny portion of the stock reserved for mom-and-pop investors.
Now, investors' mania for the stocks minted by Silicon Valley financiers -- along with the growing trend toward do-it-yourself investing on line -- has banks scrambling to find new ways to get stock in I.P.O.'s into the hands of individuals. And the new on-line banks, without armies of bankers and salesmen, expect to charge companies fees of 5 percent or less.
"First you had the discount brokers," said Michael Moritz, a venture capitalist at Sequoia Capital in Menlo Park. "Now you have the emergence of the discount investment banker."
Established firms like the Charles Schwab Corporation and DLJ Direct, the on-line affiliate of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, already distribute shares on line and help underwrite stock offerings. But the emergence of on-line investment banks -- like the Wit Capital Group of New York (which itself went public on Friday) and E*Offering, which is backed by Sanford Robertson, a co-founder of Robertson, Stephens & Company of San Francisco -- could open the process further, with new stocks available on a first-come, first-served basis.
The most revolutionary concept is being championed by William Hambrecht, co-founder of another San Francisco investment bank, Hambrecht & Quist. Housed in a former warehouse in the city's design district, his firm, W. R. Hambrecht & Company, sells new stocks over the Internet in a so-called Dutch auction, with investors setting the price.
Investors place bids for the number of shares they want at a price they are willing to pay. After a few weeks of bidding, a clearing price is set at the lowest offer at which all shares can be sold. Those bidding above the clearing price get all the shares they asked for. Investors bidding at that price may get only a percentage of the shares they want. Those who bid too low are shut out.
The concept, while by no means proven, appeals to venture capitalists like Bruce Dunlevie, a partner at Benchmark Capital. "I think the trends favor it," he said. "It is the rise of the consumer in the I.P.O. market."
But the mechanics may serve only to feed the frenzy further, encouraging overbidding. "If you guess the actual price, you run the risk of not getting stock," acknowledged Ian H. Zwicker, president of W. R. Hambrecht. Plus, it is unclear whether many analysts will follow the companies and offer investors needed guidance. Ravenswood Winery, the first company whose stock was auctioned this way, got a tepid reaction from investors. But most experts believe the logical users of Hambrecht's services are Internet entrepreneurs.
 
A Case of Caution
If the market for Internet stocks remains weak, Silicon Valley may have no choice but to pause and catch its breath. That would please Mr. Lee, the founder of Corio.
Corio's fiercest competitor, a Maryland company called USinternetworking, was grabbing headlines after its stock price shot up from $21 to a high of $60 on April 9, the day it went public. Though USinternetworking had $33 million in net losses and a still-developing business model, the first day's trading gave it an eye-popping market capitalization of $2.4 billion and, Mr. Lee worried, instant credibility.
He was faced with a decision: Should Corio go public, too? It had promising sales but couldn't guarantee the same success in the coming months. And while Wall Street analysts may not require profits, they do demand predictability. "That doesn't come without processes, people and tools in place," Mr. Lee said. After an agonizing two-hour board meeting in April, the company chose to hold off.
"We definitely felt the pressure," Mr. Lee said. "You get caught up in the hype. Given that we could do it, of course we thought about it. A lot of people do. We are fighting a clock."
A month later, he doesn't regret the decision. USinternetworking's market capitalization has fallen to $1 billion, and investors who bought in the first day's euphoria are facing losses of more than 58 percent.
"My philosophy is that an I.P.O. is a measure of doing something well," Mr. Lee said. He hesitated for a moment, reconsidering the thought. "But it's also about being at the right place at the right time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: With its celebrated analyst, Mary Meeker, left, and investment banker, Ruth Porat, Morgan Stanley selectively takes Internet companies public. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times); Venture capital firms have more money than ever for Internet start-ups. Twenty firms had offers for Jonathan Lee, founder of Corio Inc. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times); Robert C. Kagle of Benchmark Capital, which was an early investor in Ebay, is adept at keeping interest in Internet businesses high. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 9)
 
Graphs: "The Internet Stock Boom Is Abating a Bit... "
The graph shows the weekly closes of the Interactive Week Internet index since May 1998.
 
"...And While Gains in New Offerings Have Shrunk..."
The graph shows the average first-day gain of the initial public offerings of Internet stocks since May 1998.
 
"...Companies Are Still Lining Up to Go Public"
The graph shows the number of Internet issues that filed with the S.E.C. to go public since May 1998.
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Thomson Financial Securities Data)(pg. 9)
 
Drawings (GR Martin)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IPO FINANCIAL NETWORK THOMSON FINANCIAL (61%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: IPO FINANCIAL NETWORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; VENTURE CAPITAL INTERNET & WWW (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); BONDS (70%); 

PERSON: MENLOW, DAVID; HOLSON, LAURA M ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



125 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3001 words

HEADLINE: At the King Ranch, a Way of Life Is Riding Into the Sunset

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER 

DATELINE: KINGSVILLE, Tex.

 BODY:
CROSSING a shady creek bed in South Texas nearly 150 years ago -- in the middle of what many people called the Desert of the Dead -- Captain Richard King had a vision.
Although he was a steamboat pilot with a thriving business on the Rio Grande, Captain King saw an opportunity to raise cattle on the parched, untamed land that surrounded him. He bought 15,500 acres, about 20 miles southwest of Corpus Christi, from a land grant known as Rincon de Santa Gertrudis. And he began carving out a ranching enterprise that would become an American legend. 
 His descendants built on his dream, creating one of the largest ranches in the country, with 825,000 acres in Texas and operations around the world. Over the years, family members developed the Santa Gertrudis, the first new breed of cattle to be produced in the United States; advanced new methods of clearing brush; perfected the American quarter horse (not to mention breeding a line of thoroughbreds that included Assault, a Triple Crown winner in the 1940's), and refined a system of land management and preservation.
But in recent years, as the cattle business has become less profitable and the family has grown larger and more costly to support, the vision seems to have blurred. Many think it faded altogether when the last King descendant to work the ranch, Stephen J. (Tio) Kleberg, 53, was dismissed in April 1998 by the professional manager brought in three years earlier to lead the company.
In the year since, at least eight key employees have quit or been dismissed. At a place where employees have been well tended for generations, managers say they feel uncertain about their future, with their work scrutinized and their decisions second-guessed.
"Maybe these changes have to happen," said Bill Baxter, a computer technology specialist at the ranch for 17 years until he resigned in November, dissatisfied after Mr. Kleberg's departure. "I just wonder if there's a good way to do that without destroying the legacy. It's sad to see the traditions die."
In fact, tradition has been under assault at King Ranch for years, maybe decades. Captain King's rule -- the guiding principle of many of the white settlers of Texas -- was that bigger was better. When he died, in 1885, the ranch had grown to more than 600,000 acres. It now consists of four units sprawled across five counties, one of them named for his Kleberg descendants. At one point, he imported the residents of an entire Mexican village to work his cattle; the children of these kinenos, as they became known, were educated on the ranch, and generations were guaranteed jobs.
But traditional ranching activities have been a diminishing part of King Ranch's business, as Americans have reduced their consumption of beef and as more profitable uses have been found for the land, from oil drilling to quail hunting to tourism. And a portfolio of nonranch holdings has been developed to generate the dividends demanded by the 84 family shareholders.
Since Jack Hunt, who has an M.B.A. from Harvard and a background in agribusiness, took over as chief executive and president in May 1995, he has sold the ranch's lumber operations, a cotton warehouse in Galveston and a horse farm in Kentucky. He terminated some farming leases in Arizona. The ranch is now looking to merge or sell King Ranch Energy, an oil and gas company.
In the meantime, King Ranch has bought a 5 percent stake in Agraquest, a Davis, Calif., company that makes natural pest controls for crops. Last year, the company led a consortium, Consolidated Citrus, in the acquisition of Turner Foods, one of Florida's largest citrus growers.
The company, which is privately held, does not divulge financial information about its operations. But people close to it have said that in a good year, pretax profit from cattle can range from $1 million to $3 million. Hunting, they say, can bring in $3 million a year; sod, $16 million. A 1998 article in Texas Monthly magazine quoted "company insiders" as saying that overall revenues were $183 million in 1994, up from about $100 million in the late 1980's. The company has some 600 employees globally, about 160 of them working the Texas ranch land.
"I think we are very interested in continuing to grow and provide and meet the expectations of the shareholders," said Mr. Hunt, a reserved man who runs King Ranch from the company's office in Houston. "At the same time, we're absolutely committed to operate and maintain the South Texas property."
The family says that it, too, is committed to the ranch and that the best way to assure its future is by securing its viability.
Captain King's descendants will gather in South Texas this week for their annual summer camp and shareholders meeting, a time when family members get reacquainted with the land and one another. They also consider the ranch's future -- and with each passing year, that seems to become more of a challenge.
 
Calling In the Professionals
The ranch has struggled to support itself since 1977, when the shareholders laid claim to 75 percent of the royalties coming from gas and oil reserves on the ranch. That cash flow had given the ranching operations breathing room, and once it was gone, many operations were deemed unsustainable. The thoroughbred racehorses were put up for sale, as were most of the overseas ranches. Only a 50,000-acre ranch in Brazil remains, run by Mr. Kleberg's son Chris, 28.
Corporate management at the ranch predated Jack Hunt. In 1988, seeing a need to diversify, the family hired Darwin E. Smith, the chairman and chief executive of Kimberly-Clark, the paper maker, as its first outside chief executive. He lasted only a year, and was replaced by an oil executive, Roger Jarvis. During their tenure, the ranch added a citrus grove and sod farm in Florida, an alfalfa hay farm in Arizona and a cluster of offshore oil and gas wells in the Gulf of Mexico.
While the family deferred, for the most part, to its professional managers, Tio Kleberg ran the ranching operations. A fifth-generation descendant of Captain King, with a bushy red mustache and a penchant for chewing cigars, he had grown up on the ranch. Descendants of the original kinenos gave him his nickname, which means uncle in Spanish, because they saw him as cut from the same cloth as his uncle Robert J. Kleberg Jr., who led the ranch for more than 50 years, helping to save it in the 1930's when an estate tax bill posed a mortal threat.
Tio Kleberg went to work here full time in 1971, when he was 25, after serving in the Army. "I was given a car and a set of ranch keys, and they said, 'Go to work'," he recalled. "All I ever wanted to do was cowboy."
Already familiar with cattle, from his childhood on the ranch, he set out to master other aspects of the operations: brush-clearing, fence-building, the location of windmills. He learned every square inch of the land and participated in every roundup, happiest when he was out working the ranch rather than sitting in an office minding the books.
By 1977, Mr. Kleberg was head of ranching operations. But the ranch was already unprofitable, he said, and land management was becoming an increasingly important part of the business. He oversaw a shift from cattle to fostering wildlife development, for everything from hunting to bird watching, and expanded farming operations on parts of the ranch. Under his stewardship, the ranch brought in experts on cattle fertility and continued to build on the Santa Gertrudis, breeding them to be more productive.
People who know both Tio Kleberg and Jack Hunt, the Harvard-trained chief executive, are not surprised that they clashed. Both are said to be strong-willed, and each had a well-cultivated sense of how a ranch should be managed. Often, those visions conflicted.
In addition to his Ivy League credentials, Mr. Hunt came to Texas with more than 20 years of experience in agribusiness -- 14 of them at the 270,000-acre Tejon Ranch in Southern California, long controlled by the Chandler family, owners of The Los Angeles Times.
Their final confrontation, Mr. Kleberg said, came after he was asked to examine whether the ranch's agricultural operations -- sod, cane and citrus in Florida and cotton and sorghum in Texas -- should be split from the ranching operations. After talking to the head of the Florida business, Mr. Kleberg concluded that the time wasn't right. The man had a young family, he explained, and a reorganization would require him to travel much more.
Soon, though, Mr. Kleberg said, he realized that his opinion wasn't being sought, that he was being told to split the operations. Shortly after reporting his findings, Mr. Kleberg said, he was called to a meeting with Mr. Hunt and the chairman of the ranch board, Abraham Zeleznik, a psychoanalyst who is professor emeritus at Harvard. They asked him to resign.
Mr. Hunt plays down the resignation, noting that Mr. Kleberg joined the board of directors of the company at the time and still lives on the ranch. Keeping Mr. Kleberg involved "was an important element of the move," Mr. Hunt said.
Still, Mr. Kleberg's removal from the day-to-day operations unleashed some doubt about the stability of employment at King Ranch, a worry foreign to a company in which jobs have remained in families -- both of Kings and kinenos -- for generations.
Among the eight people who have departed in the last year were several ranch managers and Mr. Hunt's own secretary, who had been with the company about nine years.
Mr. Hunt said that most of the people who left were pursuing better job opportunities. But the handful who were willing to discuss their departures described feeling under constant scrutiny, and they expressed frustration at what they saw as a lack of direction in King Ranch's operations.
Outsiders, too, felt the sting. "The best beating heart they had is gone," said Gus T. Canales, whose family was ranching here before Captain King put down roots in the area, speaking of Mr. Kleberg. "It's hard for those of us who have grown up with this life style. We have more emotional ties, and maybe not so economically feasible feelings. But I think that the next generation should give us a lot of credit for trying to change as fast was we can and still keep the affection for the land."
 
'Small, Gradual Changes'
Stripped of the romance of the West, what is happening at the King Ranch doesn't seem that different from a typical story of the corporate world: New management comes in and scrutinizes the operation for ways to make it more profitable.
In the case of King Ranch, that means asking questions like: What is the optimal mix of ranching and hunting? What is the best kind of feed grass? Should helicopters be brought in at $275 a day for rounding up cattle, or is the job best done the old-fashioned way, on horseback?
"It isn't like we're going to change the world," said Paul C. Genho, who was hired away from the Mormon Church's 300,000-acre Deseret Ranch of Florida to head King Ranch's ranch and livestock operations after Mr. Kleberg's resignation. "It's going to be small, gradual changes."
To illustrate the point, he stopped at a field where men were setting fence posts for a new weaning lot. The lot would be near grain bins, to eliminate the 12-mile round trip previously required, saving as much as $100 a day.
Another change, Mr. Genho said, involved the ranch's developing a mineral supplement for cattle and producing it through outside contractors, for half as much as a commercially produced supplement had cost.
On a larger scale, Mr. Genho, who at Brigham Young University earned a doctorate in animal science with a specialty in cattle reproduction, continues to work on cross-breeding the Santa Gertrudis to develop cattle with higher weaning weights and greater growth potential. He also hires consultants to advise him on maintaining the most productive mix of bush and grazing land.
"Running a big ranch can't be intuitive," he said, glancing over acre after acre of scrub land.
A knowledgeable man with a good sense of humor, Mr. Genho, 57, takes a more hierarchical approach than his predecessor to running the ranch. Just a handful of managers report directly to him, compared with the dozen or so who reported to Mr. Kleberg. Those who have left the ranch since his arrival, he said, represent a mere 2 percent turnover rate.
For those who have stayed, he has introduced up-to-date incentive programs. For example, a cowboy, likely to be making around $20,000 a year, can make an additional 10 percent if he does three things: build three miles of fence, help cut production costs and get his high school equivalency diploma.
Also on Mr. Genho's agenda is getting back to some traditional ways of working cattle -- putting in more time on horses and spending less money on the helicopters that have become popular in recent years for herding.
Asked about the observation by former employees that people were feeling nervous about their jobs, Mr. Genho said, "I can understand people's concern, but there's no intent to do anything but to treat those people right."
Doubts remain, however, about the ranch's future course. With the arrival of Mr. Genho, a Mormon and 17-year veteran of the church's Florida ranch, came rumors that the Utah church was positioning itself to buy King Ranch, too.
"That's totally ridiculous," Mr. Genho said.
Local cattlemen, too, say they see nothing to the rumor. But in the next breath, they'll tell you they never expected to see a day that a Kleberg wasn't running the ranch, either.
 
Hunting Down Some Profits
The pressures on King Ranch affect the entire Texas cattle industry. Cattlemen have stabilized American beef consumption after years of decline and have stepped up their search for export markets. But cattle ranching remains a low-margin business.
"The last several years, it's been extremely difficult in some years to make a profit, and in some years we don't make a profit," said Hilmar G. Moore, who serves on the King Ranch board of directors and is himself a fifth-generation rancher in Fort Bend County, just outside Houston. "You have to run a much leaner, meaner operation."
And it isn't just the cattle; ranchers also need to get more out of their land. Indeed, many ranchers view themselves more as land managers -- on the prowl for profitable, sustainable uses of their acreage -- than as cattlemen.
In Texas, for the most part, that has meant hunting.
King Ranch, historically rather secretive about its operations, came relatively late to the business of marketing its land as an attraction. But in the last decade, it has embraced the notion, leasing more than 500,000 acres to hunters at $6 to $12 an acre annually. In some cases, hunters lease the land directly. Outfitters also work in conjunction with the ranch to put together organized hunts.
"There are two kinds of hunters: those who have hunted on King Ranch and those who want to hunt on King Ranch," said Luther Young, an outfitter who has a contract to guide groups of quail hunters on the ranch.
Hunters, he said, are willing to pay as much as $850 a day for the privilege. For that fee, they must bring a gun, shells and an appetite; he provides lodging and gourmet meals at his bed-and-breakfast nearby, as well as transportation and dogs. The general stay is three days, he said.
Beyond the hunters, some 50,000 people visit the ranch every year, most of them for scheduled tours of the property, who pay $7 for each adult and $2.50 per child; others for bird watching or wildlife tours. The company is exploring additional ways to use its natural resources.
"If you told me 25 years ago King Ranch would be hosting bird watching and hosting tours, I'd say you've got to be kidding," said Steve Munday, vice president of the Southwest Texas Cattle Raisers Association. "But that's using their resources."
 
More Life to the Legacy?
Sitting in the bleachers of the rodeo arena at King Ranch, Jamene Toelkes reminisced as she watched Adan Alvarez put cattle in chutes for roping practice, his 4-year-old daughter, Clarissa, in the saddle in front of him.
"When we moved here 20 years ago, we could have survived a holocaust right out here," said Mrs. Toelkes, whose husband is the veterinarian at the ranch. There were four commissaries, one in each of the ranch's four units, to serve the needs of the hundreds of people who lived on the ranch.
Today, while some 100 people still call the ranch home -- and more than 130 children from the ranch and neighboring Kingsville attend a school on the property -- many of the employees commute to work; the commissaries have all closed.
On her little finger next to her wedding band, Mrs. Toelkes, whose family came to the ranch from Abilene, Tex., in 1978, wears a ring made from some of the diamonds her husband received, on tie tacks, for his 20 years of service. He gave each of his sons -- Philip, 34, and Dell, 33 -- a diamond-studded tie tack, as well.
Mrs. Toelkes, who works in the ranch museum, said her husband told them: "When we made the commitment to go to South Texas, we all became a part of King Ranch history."
Can that heritage be preserved? "My children, neither ever wanted to be cowboys," she said. "Their tastes were too expensive." Dell is a land developer in Colorado City, Tex., and Philip is a partner in an engineering firm in Brentwood, Calif.
But watching Mr. Alvarez, a fifth-generation ranch resident, and his daughter, Mrs. Toelkes nonetheless saw something that she hopes will never die. "This is what King Ranch is all about -- the old teaching the young," she said as Clarissa guided her horse through the arena. "It's in her genes. It's horse heritage. Generations before her did this."
And the generations that come -- what will they make of King Ranch? Ms. Toelkes paused, then came up with a knowing answer. "It will be," she said, "what the shareholders want it to be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two cowboys, sixth-generation descendants of Mexican workers who came to the King Ranch 150 years ago, practiced roping. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Visitors can take a bus tour of the vast South Texas operations of the King Ranch. Traditional ranching activities, however, have been a shrinking portion of King's business: Management is branching out into fields like biotechnology, while exiting some lumber and agricultural operations. Stephen Kleburg, the last descendant of Richard King to run the King Ranch, was dismissed last year by the ranch's professional manager. Mr. Kleburg stood in front of a portrait of his father, Richard Kleburg. A King Ranch cowboy saddled up his horse before heading to work on the range. At left is a practice "bull" for roping. Raising cattle has become less profitable in recent years, as Americans have reduced their consumption of beef and as more profitable uses have been found for the land. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Map showing the location of Kingsville, Texas: What began as a 15,500-acre purchase by Captain Richard King in the 1850's is now a four-unit ranch spanning five counties in South Texas. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); 

CITY: CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KING RANCH (CO) KING RANCH OIL & GAS INC (85%); KING RANCH ENERGY INC (85%); KING RANCH INC (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: KING RANCH (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (92%); TEXAS, USA (96%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MAMMALS (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); FAMILY (74%); BEEF (71%); MEATS (71%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); HORSES (68%); 

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA; KING, RICHARD (CAPT); KLEBERG, STEPHEN J (TITO) STEPHEN J (TIO) KLEBERG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



126 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Building a Cosmic Tape Measure

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON 

 BODY:
THROUGHOUT the century, scientists have had to rely on maddeningly oblique methods, laden with assumptions, for measuring the size of the universe. They've had to guess, from purely theoretical considerations, how bright a star or galaxy really is. Then, from its apparent brightness, dimmed by the journey of the light through space, they judge its distance.
These interpretations have been so open to debate that the universe seems to expand and contract like an accordion. With uncertainty long considered the norm, it was remarkable when astronomers boldly announced on Tuesday that they had gauged the distance of a galaxy a full 23.5 million light-years away using a stunningly direct approach that relied on little more than simple trigonometry. 
 "This measurement is the golden meter stick in the glass case," Morris Aizenman, executive officer of the National Science Foundation's Division of Astronomical Sciences proclaimed in a news release. The results came from Dr. James Herrnstein of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory in Socorro, N.M., and a team of scientists from the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics and other institutions.
Scientists are already confident that they can measure how fast galaxies are receding from the primordial big-bang explosion. If they can more precisely know the distances, they can finally close in on the long-disputed number called the Hubble constant, the key to how rapidly the universe is expanding and to calculating its age and size.
It was a week for dramatic -- and conflicting -- announcements. The previous Tuesday, astronomers from the Carnegie Observatories in Pasadena, Calif., made headlines by announcing that, using the orbiting Hubble Space Telescope, they had narrowed the age of the universe to 12 billion to perhaps 14 billion years old.
Estimates from competing astronomers, which used to be off a full 100 percent, were said to have been pared down to a mere 10 percent. In a widely quoted line, one astronomer said that it was as if scientists, accustomed to arguing over whether the universe had one foot or two, were now quibbling about a single toe.
Then came the measurement by the Herrnstein team, using the Very Long Baseline Array, a network of dish antennas that capture stellar radio waves instead of visible light. If their results hold up, the Carnegie estimate could be 15 percent (a toe and a half) too high. There is still plenty of wiggle room in the calculations. Determining the universe's age also depends on how much gravity slows the expansion and how much something called the cosmological constant speeds it up. But with this splash of cold water, the earlier euphoria suddenly seemed premature.
Since the late 1920's, when the astronomer Edwin Hubble began observing the expansion from the big bang, there has been nothing very constant about his constant. According to Hubble's law, the farther a celestial object is from Earth, the faster it will appear to be receding. Pick an object in the sky and measure its velocity and distance. Dividing one by the other gives the Hubble constant -- and with that you have a grip on the rate at which the galaxies are flying apart. From there you can work backward, estimating how long ago everything was compacted into the primordial bomb.
Astronomers feel certain that they can directly determine one of these numbers, the velocity of an object's recession, by its red shift: The faster something is moving away, the more its light waves should be stretched toward the red end of the spectrum -- a phenomenon based on the well-known Doppler effect. It is the other number, the distance of an object, that causes most of the consternation.
Since ancient times, astronomers have measured the distance of nearby planets and stars by using trigonometry. Gauge how much their positions in the sky seem to shift as one moves from one part of the Earth to another, or as the Earth moves around the sun. From this "parallax" one can calculate how far away something is.
But estimating distances beyond the range of parallax -- recently set at a mere few hundred light-years -- has required more imagination. The Carnegie observations rely on stars called Cepheid variables, which blink at a rate believed to vary with their brightness. If two of these beacons are pulsating at the same pace and one appears dimmer, then it is assumed to be farther away. But the system is fraught with uncertainty. To confidently measure absolute as opposed to relative distance, you have to calibrate the yardstick by directly measuring how far away the nearest Cepheids are. Astronomers have tried to do this using parallactic observations by the European Space Agency satellite Hipparcos. But the measurements are tricky and the data unsure.
And there are other problems. A Cepheid's rhythm may be thrown off by its metallic content. More guesswork comes in when astronomers try to judge how much of the dimming of a Cepheid's light comes not from distance but intervening cosmic dust.
THE results from the Very Long Baseline Array cut through these assumptions, measuring the distance of a galaxy (NGC 4258 in the constellation Ursa Major) with old-fashioned parallax. By using computers to coordinate the data from 10 radio telescopes, ranging from Hawaii across North America to the Virgin Islands, the astronomers essentially simulated a dish antenna thousands of miles wide. This let them measure the galaxy's radio wave emissions with a resolution so fine that it puts even the Hubble telescope to shame.
The astronomers focused on a rotating disk of gas at the galaxy's core. First they calculated how fast it was spinning by measuring how much the Doppler effect stretched and squeezed its radio waves. Then they compared this intrinsic velocity to how fast the disk appears to spin from Earth. The farther something is, the slower it seems to move -- parallax again. Think of how a jet plane seems to inch across the sky. Trigonometry then yields the distance.
Though this new method greatly expands the power of parallax, it still has its limits. The galaxy was measured at 23.5 million light-years away; the universe is billions of light-years wide. Reaching farther will still require Cepheids and other indirect methods. But now there may be a better way to ensure the accuracy of these yardsticks, putting a more solid foundation under astronomers' feet.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An optical image of Galaxy NGC 4258, from Kitt Peak observatory.(H. Ford/Johns Hopkins University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE ASTRONOMY & SPACE (93%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); TRENDS (86%); ASTROPHYSICS (78%); PHYSICS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, GEORGE EDWIN HUBBLE (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



127 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: The Kremlin Looks West

 BODY:
When the war in Yugoslavia started nearly 11 weeks ago, it threatened to rupture relations between Russia and the West. Instead, it brought Moscow and Washington closer together as they collaborated on a diplomatic settlement. Bill Clinton and Boris Yeltsin should find ways to build on the partnership. The Kremlin's willingness to part company with Slobodan Milosevic and throw its influence behind the West's peace terms in Kosovo is one of the more hopeful international developments since the end of the cold war.
The war did not come without a price in overall relations with Russia. The NATO bombing angered many Russians, who identified with their Slavic cousins. Anti-American sentiment sharply increased across Russia, as did fear that NATO, long a defensive alliance, had become a threat to Russia itself and a potential factor in Russia's own ethnic conflicts in places like Chechnya. The political fallout may be felt for years, as Communists and nationalists seek to exploit the resentment in parliamentary and presidential elections. They greeted the peace agreement with scorn, and even some of Mr. Yeltsin's aides distanced themselves from it. 
 But Mr. Yeltsin was not moved by such concerns. There were doubtless many reasons, not the least of which was Moscow's desperate need for Western financial assistance. The White House will likely look more kindly on Moscow's request for additional loans from the International Monetary Fund now that Mr. Yeltsin has leaned on Mr. Milosevic.
But Mr. Yeltsin's action bespeaks a larger vision of Russia's future as a democratic society. Mr. Milosevic may be a fellow Slav, but he is also a political fossil, just the kind Mr. Yeltsin has dueled with in Russia since the last days of the Soviet Union. Mr. Yeltsin recognized that continued alliance with Mr. Milosevic's dictatorship was a political and economic dead end for Russia. As logical as that decision might seem in the West, it was a bold act of leadership in Moscow.
Mr. Yeltsin has often been a maddeningly erratic leader, but throughout his years as President he has fought valiantly against a resurgence of Communism in Russia and a revival of cold-war hostilities between East and West. Now, with a year remaining in his final term, he has once again edged Russia closer to Europe and the United States, and has put in place a new Government in Moscow that seems prepared to consolidate that shift.
Formation of the Government has not been smooth -- it never is in Moscow -- but Prime Minister Sergei Stepashin has put economic and foreign policy largely in the hands of pragmatic men, many of whom favor further reform. The dismissal of Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov last month looks increasingly like a wise decision that allowed Mr. Yeltsin to pursue his Balkan diplomacy freely and opens the way for renewed economic change.
All of which affords the White House a chance to bring Russia into closer partnership with the West. President Clinton wisely saw the possibilities of enlisting Russia's help in Kosovo, and Strobe Talbott, the Deputy Secretary of State, skillfully helped turn the opportunity into a joint peace plan.
The cooperation can be advanced in the weeks ahead. Russian forces are likely to serve as peacekeepers in Kosovo, along with NATO troops. Further Russian assistance may be needed in dealing with Mr. Milosevic as the war ends. But Mr. Clinton should be looking beyond the Balkans for other ways to work with Russia and to help Mr. Yeltsin.
The first chance will come later this month in Cologne, Germany, when Mr. Yeltsin joins Mr. Clinton and the leaders of Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Canada and Japan at the annual economic summit meeting of the Group of Seven industrialized democracies. Though Russia's feeble economy makes it an odd addition to this group, it belongs there because of its political weight. By making Russia a full-fledged member, and working to diminish its economic distress, Mr. Clinton and the other leaders can provide tangible benefits for Mr. Yeltsin and overcome Russian doubts about the West. Mr. Clinton and Mr. Yeltsin, two men headed into the final months of their presidencies, can leave an enduring gift to their countrymen if they capitalize on the collaboration that began in Kosovo. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN FINANCIAL PRINTING CO (55%); WESTERN FINANCIAL BANK (55%); WESTERN FINANCIAL GROUP INC (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ELECTIONS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



128 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: A Conditional Surrender

BYLINE: By William E. Odom; William E. Odom, director of the National Security Agency under President Ronald Reagan and a retired Army general, is a fellow at the Hudson Institute.

DATELINE: BERLIN

 BODY:
Are we witnessing a diplomatic victory that will bring peace to the Balkans? Or will President Clinton win the Neville Chamberlain memorial umbrella trophy for accepting a phony peace? Let us hope for the former -- although much evidence suggests the latter will come to pass.
It would have been difficult to achieve peace even if Slobodan Milosevic had fully accepted NATO's demands: stop the ethnic cleansing, pull all Serb forces out of Kosovo, allow all Kosovo refugees to return home, accept a NATO military force in Kosovo and accept a politically autonomous Kosovo and an eventual plebiscite for full sovereignty. 
 But these demands were not fully met. Although the details are yet unclear, it seems that Mr. Milosevic and his Russian adviser, Viktor Chernomyrdin, have introduced sufficient ambiguity to undermine a stable settlement. Consider just these points.
First, there will be no future referendum on Kosovo sovereignty, as the original peace plan in Rambouillet, France, had demanded. Although the current proposal guarantees Kosovo "substantial autonomy," NATO has also agreed to take into account Yugoslavia's "sovereignty and territorial integrity."
Does this mean that NATO must now guarantee permanent Serbian rule over Kosovo? If NATO forces had occupied Serbia by force of arms, then it would have been possible to create a Serbian regime acceptable to an autonomous Kosovo. But this is not the case. And now NATO could find itself in the paradoxical position of defending Mr. Milosevic's formal rule of Kosovo.
Second, the peace plan calls for the demilitarization of the Kosovo Liberation Army. It is unclear whether the K.L.A. will give up its arms without a fight. If it resists, many Kosovars and Albanian groups would probably support it. Again the paradox of letting Mr. Milosevic use NATO to disarm his opposition is difficult to exaggerate.
Third, the military command arrangements are vaguely described, but it seems that they require a United Nations commander with at least some separate national contingents, most important the Russian forces. How NATO stands within the United Nations command is not clear, but if the NATO commander does not also wear the hat of the United Nations commander, the international force in Kosovo could be rendered ineffective. This would allow Mr. Milosevic to retain de facto local control. Something similar happened to the United Nations force in Bosnia. Moreover, a confused or disputed military structure will be unable to return all the refugees.
The role of Russian troops is also a troubling factor. During the negotiations, Romanian spokesmen have called them an unwanted and threatening presence in the Balkans. If Russia were a politically and economically stable country with considerable military power, Moscow's involvement would be understandable. But it is not. It is a weak, frustrated and unpredictable country with vengeful and mercurial politicians who wish NATO no success. Although Boris Yeltsin may use Russian troops responsibly, their presence in Kosovo will give the next Russian president undue leverage for all kinds of troublemaking. He could use troops to increase Belgrade's influence in Kosovo. He could threaten to pull them out, in an effort to undermine the legitimacy of the United Nations presence. He could demand that NATO's official presence be abolished.
No less critical for the multinational military force is a large United States contingent, large enough to insure that American diplomats are backed with adequate power to enforce occupation policies. Returning the refugees, creating a new Kosovo government and bureaucracy and disarming the K.L.A. will try the wits of a fully unified command. If it faces divided political counsel it will flounder.
These three aspects of the apparent deal with Mr. Milosevic should give anyone pause. Far more troubling, however, are the larger implications for the Balkans, European security and United States leadership in the world.
President Clinton's failure to make the overthrow of Mr. Milosevic a war aim leaves the Serb leader free to destroy the pro-NATO regime in Montenegro, to repress the Hungarian minority in Vojvodina and to cause trouble elsewhere, especially in Kosovo. Macedonia remains fragile, and its own Albanian minority is now probably larger. It could become a majority if a couple of hundred thousand Kosovar refugees remain there. Albanian ambitions in the region are also not to be discounted. Tensions could rise between Bulgaria and Greece over Macedonia. In other words, the present peace deal could only be a truce that allows all sides to prepare for the next and larger war.
Consider European security. Because of Mr. Clinton's repeated hesitations and equivocations, and his general failure since 1993 to get ahead of spreading disorder in the former Yugoslavia, Europe faces great uncertainties at the very time it should be most self-assured. The war in Kosovo has convinced many Europeans that the United States is no longer reliable. The American inability to lead the alliance and to use military power effectively is the talk of Europe.
Now, a purely European military, outside NATO, is being planned. The leaders of 15 European countries decided last week to make the European Union a military power for the first time in its 42-year history, with a command headquarters, staff and forces. It will probably lead nowhere, but lack of confidence in Washington won't disappear.
Thus, the lasting legacy for President Clinton and his diplomats could be that under their leadership, the demise of NATO began, even in its years of maximum relative power.
At the global level, decreasing confidence in American leadership will soon be manifest elsewhere, outside of Europe. Already the bombing-only strategy, which reflected a fear of a ground war and its attendant casualties, has undercut America's moral standing. Anti-American dictators are probably recalculating their own limits for successful actions against United States interests.
The potential legacy of the impending settlement with Slobodan Milosevic, who has been indicted for war crimes, is painful to contemplate. It is easy to satirize this episode as Mr. Clinton winning Neville Chamberlain's umbrella, but it will not be easy to live with the realities if the satire is accurate. Let us hope it is a gross distortion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Wesley Bedrosian)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIA; MONTENEGRO; SERBIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); REFUGEES (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); 

PERSON: ODOM, WILLIAM E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CHERNOMYRDIN, VIKTOR S BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



129 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: The World: Democracies Built on Rays of Hope;
In Indonesia, The Voting Is Only A First Step

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia

 BODY:
WITH drums, whistles and war whoops, with dancers, tumblers and female impersonators, Indonesians have grasped the first great truth about free elections: They can be lots of fun.
But there is another truth as well. One election does not make a country a democracy. Institutions, traditions and social cohesion do. So the big question on the eve of Indonesia's first free election in 44 years is whether it will set the world's fourth most populous nation on the path toward democratic stability or toward new turmoil. 
 One foreign election expert wishes, in fact, that the parliamentary election scheduled for tomorrow could be a trial run. People are learning about democracy here by trial and error, the expert said, and the stakes are far too high.
"One year ago, Indonesians were political naifs," said the expert, a foreign diplomat. "Now that picture is changing."
Since Suharto was forced to resign the presidency in May 1998, Indonesia has been learning fast, moving from street demonstrations to party organizing, from utopian philosophizing to the beginnings of coalition building. Still, nobody knows what patterns the voting will take or how this nation of more than 200 million jostling and often feuding people will manage the outcome.
Perhaps the people will vote freely, or perhaps they will continue to answer to the village headman, as they have for generations. Maybe the losers will accept the outcome or maybe the results will trigger a new wave of demonstrations, followed by riots and the use of military force.
How effectively will a new government begin the building of democratic institutions? Will it respond to the public demand for an end to what is known as K.K.N. -- the Indonesian initials for corruption, collusion and nepotism?
"I don't see a transition to democracy as inevitable, despite the holding of elections," said David Timberman, an American electoral expert. "There is nothing inexorable about this process. Its outcomes depend a lot on the leadership and behavior of the new political parties in Parliament."
The hard work still lies ahead, said Jusuf Wanandi, the head of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, an independent policy institute. "I am much more optimistic about the election than about what comes after," he said. "I am dreading the difficulties we will have in creating a real coalition government -- animosities, jealousies, prima donnas."
Still, worst-case scenarios have so far not been realized, beginning with the largely peaceful and raucously enthusiastic three-week election campaign that is now ending.
Some analysts warn that the campaign revelers may be setting themselves up for harsh disappointments when the results come in. But Indonesia has shown a great deal more political maturity in the past year than many people -- notably Mr. Suharto -- gave them credit for.
Just to get this far has been an extraordinary achievement. Indonesia had no revolution. It did not overturn its Government, only the man at the top. It did not change its constitution or its basic laws, reform its institutions or bring any but a few low-ranking soldiers to trial.
Democratic reform in Indonesia, so far, floats on air. Yet it is undeniably a force in play, a clear expression of popular will. The force appears to have begun building even when Mr. Suharto was in power, and to have burst forth since he departed.
A newly free press has emerged, even as the politically intrusive military has been humbled and the Government has shown a new responsiveness to public opinion. The elections themselves, created by Mr. Suharto's holdover Parliament, are the results of this reformist pressure, which the Suharto men who still run Indonesia have been unable to ignore, political analysts say.
The country has avoided calamity over the past year, remaining far more stable than many had expected. A surge of pre-election violence was widely predicted, but it did not materialize except for clashes in some already unstable areas. There has been no wave of religious warfare. Student demonstrators have withdrawn from the streets to participate in the campaign.
Though the economy has not recovered yet from a battering during East Asia's financial crisis a year ago, the harvest has been good and there have been no food riots; the currency has stabilized at double its lowest rate 18 months ago and there is a glimmer of hope for better times. But Indonesia still lacks the solid middle class that would form the foundation of a thoroughgoing democracy, said Juwono Sudarsono, the Minister of Education and a leading political analyst. Politics remains a battleground between haves and have-nots and between factions and ethnic groups, rather than a true discourse, he said.
"We have a long way to go," Mr. Juwono said, noting that Indonesia's middle class is far more shallow than those of the emerging democracies of Thailand, South Korea or the Philippines. "It could be 25 years before we can achieve their level of 30 percent of the population being middle class."
THE first free election in a newly independent Indonesia was also its last, in 1955. Shortly afterward, the country's founding President, Sukarno, decreed that parliamentary democracy was not working and instituted in its place an authoritarian model he called "guided democracy."
He was responding to the political realities of the day but also to the popular mood, which demanded firm leadership.
"My sense is that there is a cyclical aspect to this whole thing, that authoritarianism and democracy are popular at different times and that we are now in a very anti-authoritarian point in the cycle," said Herbert Feith, an Australian political scientist who was here during the 1955 election.
Yes, he said, new democratic institutions are not yet in place. But he said the mood of the nation -- the public discourse -- can be a powerful force in its own right.
"The Suharto crowd lost control of the public discourse, and the discourse has a life of its own," Mr. Feith said. Whatever happens, he suggested, the tide of democratic reform in Indonesia is not likely to be easily reversed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The excitement of democracy is evident in Jakarta, where supporters of Magawati Sukarnoputri, a presidential aspirant, rallied last Thursday. (Paula Bronstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); RIOTS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (53%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



130 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Mental Illness Hits The Money Trail

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
SHOULDN'T people with mental illnesses, which can destroy lives and families, be entitled to the same amount of insurance coverage as those with physical illnesses? On the face of it, that sounds like a fairly simple question.
But as in all things having to do with health care, and especially the often vaguely defined area of mental illness, the issue can be maddeningly complicated. 
 Tipper Gore, the wife of the Vice President, will open a White House conference tomorrow to draft new health-care policies that would require employers and insurers to provide coverage for outpatient and in-patient mental health comparable to that for other kinds of medical care -- "parity for all," in the words of Mrs. Gore.
Along with similar proposals pending in Congress, the White House initiative would face head-on what Mrs. Gore, who has a master's degree in psychology, calls the destructive myth that those seeking greater mental health coverage are "out to rip off the system."
At stake is a significant slice of the total United States health care budget. About $80 billion -- nearly 10 percent of total annual health care spending -- now goes into mental-health treatment, according to the Center for Mental Health Services, a Federal research agency.
About a third of that amount, mostly from Medicaid, Medicare and other Government sources, pays for clinical treatment of the severely mentally ill, whose illnesses often render them poor and unemployed and who often "end up in the public system," according to Mary Rappaport, a spokeswoman for the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, an advocacy group for the severely mentally ill. In any year, according to the group, about five million Americans suffer from severe and persistent mental disorders, including schizophrenia, bipolar disorders and major depression.
Few seriously question the need for clinical treatment for those with the worst mental illnesses, about 250,000 of whom are homeless. So the debate over the potential cost of providing comparable insurance coverage for mental and physical illnesses is focused on those whose treatment consumes the remaining two-thirds of the $80 billion total, most of which is paid by employer-provided health insurance.
This segment includes the "worried well," as they are called by those who question the employment of psychiatric therapy to address many less severe emotional distresses and addiction problems. For the past 25 years, most of the increases in mental health spending have gone to this group of patients, who are the easiest and most profitable to treat.
Proposed Federal laws to establish comparable insurance coverage for mental illness seek to give priority to the severely ill. But some employers and policy analysts worry that once mandates for expanded mental health coverage are in place costs could rise sharply above the modest levels projected by the drafters of the parity bills. The concern is that the legislation would provide profit incentives to tailor diagnoses and to recruit new pools of patients.
Advocates of comparable insurance coverage cite studies showing that the additional cost would be minimal, while providing a major public-health benefit. The National Institute of Mental Health predicts that mandating parity through managed-care plans would add less than 1 percent to the total annual national health care bill.
BUT such studies could be flawed by "very low assumptions on induced demand," said Paul Fronstin, a senior researcher at the Employee Benefit Research Institute, whose clients include employers, labor unions and pension plans. Induced demand refers to marketing by the mental health industry, usually among patients with health insurance who can be successfully treated for a wide array of mental disorders defined in the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual.
For employers and others worried about potential cost increases in mental-health therapy, induced demand raises a red flag. In the late 1980's, when expanded psychiatric and substance-abuse therapy was heavily promoted and advertised among the general population, annual costs for such treatments rose 20 percent to 30 percent faster than costs in other areas of health care, employers found.
Fraud also became a problem. In the early 1990's, for-profit psychiatric hospitals and addiction centers paid over $500 million in Federal fines to settle charges of profiteering and diagnostic fraud in recruiting patients with generous mental health insurance. Many health maintenance organizations responded by tightening benefits for inpatient hospitalization and other mental-health treatment.
For their part, advocates for comparable insurance coverage cite evidence that they say shows that more money is needed for additional mental health treatment:
* In any year 30 million Americans suffer from clinical mental disorders, but only about 20 percent currently seek treatment, according to studies cited by the National Institute of Mental Health.
* According to the American Society of Addiction Medicine, 11.3 percent of Americans will at some point require psychiatric treatment for various addictions. In an April report, the group called for more spending on addiction therapy.
* The National Institute of Mental Health recently launched a national television and radio advertising campaign to encourage more people to seek treatment for anxiety disorders, which the agency describes as "frightening mental illnesses" affecting 19 million Americans.
* The National Alliance for the Mentally Ill cites studies asserting that of the nation's 63 million youths under 18, about 7.5 million have diagnosable mental disorders -- but only about a fifth now receive treatment.
* Post-traumatic stress disorder, which is prompted by memories of traumatic events, is now widely diagnosed among victims and witnesses of crimes, natural disasters and even marital problems. The National Institute of Mental Health estimates that 4 percent of the population suffers from it. But that number could grow. The Justice Department recently stated that some people who are swindled by telemarketing fraud and other white-collar crimes develop post-traumatic stress disorder and require psychiatric intervention.
POLICE departments across the country refer officers with troubling memories to therapists who specialize in treating post-traumatic stress disorder. Last week, Robert Volpe, the father of Justin A. Volpe, the New York City police officer who pleaded guilty to savagely assaulting a suspect in a precinct bathroom, employed the sort of therapeutic language found on Internet sites devoted to police post-traumatic stress disorder to defend his son. He likened police work to combat and suggested that his son suffered memories of traumatic experiences on the job.
As a diagnosis, post-traumatic stress disorder "just started taking off in 1985 and it keeps growing," said Allan Young, chairman of the department of Social Studies of Medicine, Anthropology and Psychiatry at McGill University in Montreal.
If the pool of patients grows and parity laws require insurers to pay for all demands for treatment, something will have to give, experts say. A 1997 study by the Employee Benefit Research Institute warned that as mental-health parity causes employer costs to rise, workers can expect to see erosion in other benefits, and that some employers could react by dropping health-insurance coverage altogether.
The correct approach, said Ms. Rappaport of the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, is "redirecting money already in the system for those who have the most severe disorders."
The priority is simple, she said: "You save the neediest first."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: New York has been shrinking hospitals for the mentally ill for years. An empty corridor at the former Utica State Hospital. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES (55%); CENTER FOR MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES (55%); CENTER FOR MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; HEALTH INSURANCE; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING MENTAL ILLNESS (93%); MENTAL HEALTH (91%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%); DEPRESSION (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); MEDICARE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INSURANCE FRAUD (73%); MEDICAID (73%); 

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE; GORE, TIPPER TIPPER GORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



131 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: The World: Tug of War;
Now, Onward to the Next Kosovo. If There Is One.

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IF the goal of the allied bombing of Yugoslavia was to force Slobodan Milosevic to pull his troops out of Kosovo and cede control of that unhappy province to NATO, it appears to have been a success, and more -- a refutation of the common wisdom that air power alone could never make a despot back down.
But if the purpose was also to warn evildoers in other lands that the United States and its allies now stand ready to enforce peace with bombs, it is a message that has brought more concern than comfort. 
 From India to Israel to Indonesia, countries with their own unresolved ethnic conflicts -- and they are of epidemic proportions in the post-Communist universe -- have scrutinized the Balkan conflict for some indication of how this might affect their own fates.
India, whose contested control of Kashmir has led in recent days to new clashes with Pakistan and fierce clampdowns on the Muslim population of the province, has been fiercely critical of Washington and Brussels for presuming the right to interfere with force in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. Israel, which prefers to see itself as a victim of Arab aggression rather than an occupying power in lands along its borders, has welcomed NATO's new assertiveness. One high Israeli official happily reported that Israeli intelligence had noticed that American willingness to bomb Yugoslavia into submission had stirred considerable discomfort among some despotic Arab leaders of neighboring states.
Yet it remains far from clear whether the capitulation of the Serbs -- if, indeed, it is a capitulation, and not another maneuver by the wily Mr. Milosevic to gain time and consolidate his gains -- heralds the acceptance of a new global police mission by the West, however bold the pronouncements and self-congratulation last week.
From the outset, the United States and its NATO allies have couched the bombardment of Yugoslavia in high moral terms, as a crusade to restore the rights of a maligned population and to prevent the spread of chaos beyond the borders of Serbia. But all along, many experts and foreign leaders have questioned whether the allies would have acted had Kosovo been in Central Asia, and how much the operation really had a tightly focused purpose -- to define the reach, the role and the credibility of NATO and the United States in post-Communist Europe.
Now new questions can be added to the mix: Does the apparent success of the air war change the logic? Will a newly confident West be tempted to expand its horizons? Should tyrants in far-flung parts of the globe think a second time before unleashing mayhem?
Graham Allison, head of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard, is among those who see the bombing of Kosovo as a strictly European phenomenon. "I think that this was an accident, a combination of circumstances which partially have to do with Europe, partly with NATO, partly with guilt about the earlier Bosnia story, partly to do with the notion that more things are doable in the European setting," he said.
"This is not likely to initiate a new messianic crusade," he added, even though some people will inevitably ask why the West doesn't take action "when the next horror arises in Rwanda or Indonesia."
THE charges of selectivity have already been leveled, raising the questions of where NATO was during the genocide in Rwanda, and why it is complicit with Turkey's repression of the Kurds or Indonesia's repression of separatists in East Timor, and why it has kept silent about Kashmir. The notion of NATO planes bombing Israel to get its troops out of the West Bank, or Canada to free Quebec, or England to get it out of Northern Ireland, have become the stuff of comedy routines based on the inconsistencies of NATO's Kosovo rationale.
Yet the fact is that separatist movements along ethnic and religious lines and conflicts like the ones in the crumbling Yugoslavia are likely to be the dominant problem of the near future, and the temptation for interference by the West or other powers will always be there.
The notion that well-meaning nations can and should try to jointly resolve conflicts has been a leitmotif of this century. The creation of the League of Nations and the United Nations Security Council were followed by various regional or individual efforts at peacekeeping, including Syria's takeover of Lebanon with the consent of the Arab League, Nigeria's efforts at stanching civil wars in West Africa and American operations in Haiti, Somalia and elsewhere.
One outgrowth of the Kosovo operation was the announcement last week that the 15 members of the European Union intend to form their own military force for such missions, freeing the United States of at least part of the burden of playing global cop.
But the peacemaking efforts have always been selective, and only rarely successful. The Security Council has been wary of using its powers to employ military force under the United Nations Charter. Most United Nations peacekeeping missions have been created largely to formalize agreements, and lasted only so long as the warring parties needed them.
The NATO action on Kosovo marked a new approach. First, the allies claimed the right to use force against a sovereign state only because it refused to sign a proffered agreement. Second, instead of sending in troops, NATO chose a campaign of progressively more destructive bombing, thus sharply lowering the chance of casualties among allied soldiers, and the resistance back home that body bags provoke.
HOWEVER effective the approach in the immediate term, it has also been the source of considerable irritation abroad, and considerable uncertainty about the future. One accusation rarely noted in the American press, but extensively accepted as truth abroad, was that the bombing of Yugoslavia was a flagrant violation of sovereignty and international law. In the third world, where boundaries are often in dispute and governments weak, these principles are held to be virtually sacred.
Among other nations, most notably Russia, the entire campaign has been perceived exclusively as a power play by NATO, with the Kosovar Albanians only providing a pretext. Coupled with the expansion of NATO, the campaign has seriously lowered the standing of the United States in Russian eyes.
So the diplomatic costs of repeating the exercise too often would be high, even if the prospects of military success were good.
In addition, there is a sense among American and foreign analysts that even if the Kosovo operation did achieve its aims, it did so at an exorbitant cost in armaments and destruction. A million Kosovars were homeless, Serbia's economy lay in ruins and thousands of Serbs and Albanians were dead.
"We just overwhelmed them with destruction," said Earl H. Tilford Jr., a former Air Force officer who now teaches at the Army War College. "It was technically excellent, but strategically bankrupt." The question this poses elsewhere, of course, is how many times the West will have the stomach to repeat the destruction and the resources to repair the mess afterward.
THERE was also the fact that having entered Bosnia and now Kosovo, the United States is likely to remain mired in the south Balkans for a generation. It is not the kind of garrison duty likely to be repeated in too many places.
And there are also doubts about the effectiveness of the Kosovo operation as a deterrent. "Does this mean that the next bad man, whether an African potentate or someone in Asia or even Uzbekistan, is going to think, 'Oh my God, here they come?' I don't think so," said Mr. Allison. "It wouldn't significantly affect the calculus, though it would at least demonstrate what could happen."
What may happen, argued Susan Woodward, an expert on the Balkans at the Brookings Institution, is that dictators or even troubled countries, fearing that their internal conflicts make them ripe targets for a NATO onslaught and unable to resist it with conventional arms, will be tempted to turn to nuclear or chemical arms. "People will not say, 'I will think twice before I do horrible things,' " Ms. Woodward said. "Rather they will think, 'I better prepare better defensively against external interventions of that kind.' "
"I'm not comfortable with the argument that if we compromised we would lose our credibility," said Dmitri Simes, head of the Nixon Center in Washington. "That's not the kind of credibility we need. Everybody understands that the United States, especially with NATO, is a global force. We have to understand how different our actions look elsewhere."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Returning from a bombing mission over Yugoslavia, the pilot of an F-15E Eagle awaits the signal to shut the plane's engines. (United States Air Force)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); ISRAEL (94%); INDIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); US AIR FORCE (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); US AIR FORCE (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; UNITED STATES (98%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); ISRAEL (94%); INDIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (58%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



132 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: A Script for the Senate Race

 BODY:
It is not surprising that almost all the discussion about the upcoming Senate race in New York concerns personalities. The cast of characters is, after all, larger than life. First Lady Hillary Clinton has all but officially announced her candidacy, as has Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. If Mr. Giuliani has to fight for the Republican nomination against Representative Rick Lazio of Long Island, chances are that the Mayor's combative persona will be the focus of that primary as well.
But New York is a state with more than its quota of economic and social problems. It deserves a campaign that includes a full discussion of the issues that will affect it in the next millennium. 
 Education is a critical concern, and even at this early date, Mr. Giuliani and Mrs. Clinton have been sparring gingerly about school vouchers, which the Mayor supports and the First Lady opposes. But New York deserves a broader debate about how to improve the quality of its educational system. What is the proper role for the Federal Government in supporting local public schools? Should there be national standards to measure teacher qualifications and student success? What part could a United States senator play in debates about social promotion, remedial education and the proper role of teachers' and principals' unions?
Candidates for the Senate always promise to bring home more bacon, but Mrs. Clinton will have to explain why it would be in the state's interest to have two Democratic senators when the Republicans appear to have a hold on majority control. Her opponent should be challenged to describe what he would do when his Sunbelt-dominated party pushed legislation that threatened the Northeast on matters like acid rain and transportation spending.
The welfare reform bill, which Mr. Lazio supported and Mr. Giuliani opposed in part, is now the law of the land with wide backing even among the Democrats. But New York's role as a haven for immigrants and the presence here of so many second- and third-generation welfare recipients will make it hard for the state to proceed to the next step, when time limits kick in and families start being ejected from the system. The candidates should tell us what changes they would endorse to help states with large populations of recent immigrants and the very poor.
Past experience suggests that when it comes to foreign policy, the Senate campaign will focus on the Mideast, with each candidate trying to grab the mantle of best friend to Israel. We would like to see a broader discussion that focused on the proper international role for the United States. Under what circumstances should Americans intervene in other countries' affairs? How much should we rely on the United Nations and NATO to represent our interests? How important are human-rights issues when it comes to relations with trading partners like China or Indonesia?
On campaign finance reform, Mrs. Clinton would have a great deal of explaining to do about the abuses of existing laws that went on during her husband's Administration, some of which involved her close associates, including her senior political adviser, Harold Ickes, and members of her White House staff. Mr. Giuliani ought to discuss how far he would be willing to buck his party, which has been blocking serious reform in Congress. Mr. Lazio, who has voted to strengthen the campaign finance laws, would have to tell voters why he declined to join his party's reform wing to force those bills to the floor.
Mrs. Clinton has already said that she would not try again to create the sort of sweeping solution to the nation's health care problems that she advocated in her early days as First Lady. But about 43 million Americans remain uninsured, including 3.1 million New Yorkers, and many of those who do have coverage express dissatisfaction with the restrictions of managed-care programs. Last year, during the exciting but not always enlightening Senate race between Charles Schumer and Alfonse D'Amato, the candidates were asked how health care costs could be kept down if insurance companies were forced by Congress to cover more and more procedures. The candidates, who had been vying to appear toughest on health maintenance organizations, both avoided the query and went back to arguing about who was more of a liar. With more than a year and a half before the Senate election, the candidates should have plenty of time to answer serious questions.
Personalities are not irrelevant to this race. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Lazio would have every right to question whether Mr. Giuliani has the temperament to be an effective senator. Mr. Giuliani, who has already been harping on the carpetbag issue, is not out of line in wondering whether New York should be represented by someone who has actually lived here. Voters would naturally want to know how Mrs. Clinton plans to balance her role as Senate candidate with her duties as First Lady, and we have confidence her opponent will bring the matter up on their behalf.
But it would be a shame if this contest, which may be the focus of almost as much attention as the Presidential race, should degenerate quickly into a sound-bite battle. Besides being national personalities, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Giuliani are intelligent and thoughtful political veterans with very different takes on the proper role of government. Mr. Lazio, who seems intent on depriving the national media of their dream race, is a serious legislator who has surprised people in the past with his ability to topple a high-profile politician.
It is not too early to ask that the candidates, as they announce, commit themselves to a series of issue-based debates throughout the campaign, each focusing on a single topic, like education or foreign policy. The campaign will inevitably make compelling theater, but the candidates will need to give serious topics their due. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); IMMIGRATION (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); QUALITY CONTROL (72%); MILLENNIUM (69%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (68%); TEACHER UNIONS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); ACID RAIN (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



133 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 34; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Scene of the Crime Revisited

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "At the Scene of a Crime?" (Working, May 2), about how an employee who discovers questionable and maybe illegal practices in his division should protect himself: 
 As a lawyer who has represented institutions accused of wrongdoing as well as individuals blowing the whistle, I was dismayed at some of the advice. First, in suggesting that, as a last resort, the employee consider talking to in-house counsel, the column fails to note that the company's lawyer represents the company's interests. An employee who divulges information to that lawyer is exposing himself to the person best placed to harm him: the lawyer who may eventually defend the company.
Second, going to the boss is almost always a mistake in these situations. If he is so unscrupulous as to sanction such activities, he is not going to have moral qualms about quashing the whistle-blowing employee.
If the activities are clearly illegal, the employee should seek outside counsel. If they are questionable, he should consult in confidence with someone he trusts at the company, who can act as an intermediary with the in-house counsel or others there.
 
RICARDO GUARNERO
Bellevue, Wash., May 3
 
The writer is a managing member of Garcia & Guarnero P.L.L.C.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; LEGAL PROFESSION; FRAUDS, MISAPPROPRIATION AND SECURITIES VIOLATIONS LAWYERS (91%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (90%); MISAPPROPRIATION (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



134 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 34; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals Can Cut Costs, Too

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Insurers and Uninsured Put Hospitals in a Squeeze" (May 9), which looked at hospitals' recent cash-flow problems after years of profitability: 
 As a practice management consultant to physicians and dentists for over 36 years, I have seen the high rates charged by hospitals. The industry is now getting a dose of its own medicine. No tears need be shed.
 Before Medicare, most hospitals were owned by governments, charities and foundations. Now the industry is controlled by business, and costs have climbed, putting Medicare, Medicaid and the health insurance industry in jeopardy. That means trouble for patients.
When money gets tight, most people try to make more money or spend less. Hospitals face the same choice, and while they are already good at making money, they are not so good at spending less. We cannot force hospitals to reduce bureaucracy, but we can tell our third-party payers (Medicare, insurance companies, etc.) to pay less to them. We still have by far the best and least expensive health care delivery system in the world. Let's just allow our economic system to work.
 
ROY W. HUNTSMAN
Gainesville, Fla., May 11
 Money & Business welcomes letters from readers. Letters must include the writer's name, address and telephone number and may be sent to Letters, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d St., New York, N.Y. 10036, or by E-mail to sunbiz@nytimes.com. Letters selected for publication may be
abridged.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LETTERS MONEY&BUSINESS (92%); MEDICARE (91%); MEDICAID (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (91%); MEDICAID (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (78%); DENTAL INSURANCE (78%); CHARITIES (75%); WRITERS (73%); MEDICAID (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



135 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Prosecution That Spared Espy Leaves a Top Aide in Ruins

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4

 BODY:
At first glance, Ronald H. Blackley, a high school graduate who says he never earned more than $30,000 a year back home in Mississippi, does not seem like the kind of target Congress had in mind when it created special prosecutors.
A decade ago in his home state, he worked for a Congressman named Mike Espy on farm issues. When Mr. Espy was named Secretary of Agriculture in 1993, Mr. Blackley was hired as his chief of staff for $115,000 a year. 
 "He came to Washington as an idealist," Mr. Blackley's lawyer, Sheldon Krantz, said the other day.
Mr. Blackley left Washington a convicted criminal, owing more than $300,000 in legal fees and loans, his suburban Virginia house lost to foreclosure. And soon, unless his appeals are successful, he will go to prison for 27 months.
His wife, Sharon, sat beside him and cried as Mr. Blackley told of being swept up in an investigation aimed at Mr. Espy, who was accused but ultimately cleared of taking favors from companies who did business with the Agriculture Department. The special prosecutor in the case, Donald C. Smaltz, had hoped Mr. Blackley would help him convict his former boss. "I could have," Mr. Blackley drawled, "if I'd lied."
Instead, Mr. Blackley himself became a target of Mr. Smaltz and, his lawyer says, another victim of a statute that has spawned boundless multimillion-dollar investigations that have often gone on for years.
Now many in Congress are considering letting the independent counsel law lapse when it comes up for renewal in Congress this month.
Mr. Blackley, who is 48, was convicted in late 1997 of three counts of making false statements about $22,000 in outside income he received while serving as the Agriculture Secretary's chief of staff.
Mr. Smaltz convinced a jury that Mr. Blackley took the money from longtime Mississippi friends in return for helping them get Agriculture Department subsidies, then lied about it, first on financial-disclosure forms and later to investigators for the department and for the United States Agency for International Development, where he worked after leaving the department in 1995.
Mr. Blackley was guilty of nothing more than "being in the wrong place at the wrong time," Mr. Krantz said, adding that what happened to his client "is an example of what is wrong with the independent counsel statute," and why it should be allowed to die.
To compare the prosecutor's version of the case with the defense lawyer's is to wonder whether they are talking about the same man and the same events.
Mr. Krantz said $10,000 of the $22,000 was a loan from an old friend who wanted to help Mr. Blackley get settled in the Washington area. About $10,000 more came in installments for the sale of a rice brokerage Mr. Blackley owned before coming to Washington, and another $1,000 was a high school graduation gift to Mr. Blackley's son, the lawyer said.
Mr. Blackley simply tried to cut through red tape and get subsidies for people entitled to them, Mr. Krantz said.
At the trial, Mr. Krantz elicited testimony that many people have trouble with the financial-disclosure forms. He tried to show that Mr. Blackley's violations, if any, were technical and attributable to the documents' baffling language, including ambiguous wording on how to list money earned in a certain year, compared with money actually received in a given year.
The prosecutors characterized those explanations as ludicrous and said there was overwhelming evidence that Mr. Blackley had cashed in on his position.
No matter which version is true, or whether the "truth" lies in some undiscoverable terrain in between, this much is clear: If there were no independent-counsel law, Mr. Blackley would not have been prosecuted.
Passed in 1978 when memories of Watergate were fresh, the Ethics in Government Act provides for court-appointed independent counsels to go after wrongdoing at the highest levels of Government. The statute has been endlessly debated. Its critics complain that some special prosecutors stray far from their original missions, spending millions to pursue people on the periphery of scandal, as well as the truly guilty.
In 1994, Mr. Smaltz was appointed to investigate Mr. Espy, who resigned amid suspicions that he had accepted tickets to sporting events, luggage and other gifts worth thousands of dollars from people and companies he was supposed to be regulating, like Tyson Foods, the giant poultry producer based in Arkansas.
Mr. Smaltz went after Mr. Blackley mainly to get information to use against his former boss. "Blackley was a link in the chain to Secretary Espy," the prosecutor said in a television interview last year.
Mr. Blackley said: "They wanted me to do for them what they couldn't do, which was convict Mike Espy. I didn't have anything."
Mr. Blackley said he made that clear in several interviews with investigators. He said they told him, at first, that he was not a target. But the questioning became less friendly, and Mr. Blackley said he began to hear from friends in Mississippi that investigators were checking on him.
Mr. Blackley's financial-disclosure forms came under scrutiny only because Mr. Espy was under investigation, Mr. Krantz said. Attorney General Janet Reno unsuccessfully opposed Mr. Smaltz's request for authorization to pursue Mr. Blackley, reminding the Federal judicial panel overseeing the counsel's office that Mr. Blackley was not covered in its original mandate. Ms. Reno expressed alarm at a special prosecutor's potentially "unbridled power."
Moreover, the Department of Justice and the Agriculture Department's inspector general's office had earlier examined Mr. Blackley's forms and found nothing to prosecute. That decision was in keeping with the Justice Department's policy of not prosecuting financial-disclosure violations, Mr. Krantz said, but rather allowing filers to correct the forms, or settle cases civilly.
Mr. Blackley was indicted on April 22, 1997, and was tried in Federal District Court in Washington. Mr. Blackley did not testify on his own behalf; his lawyer thought that there was no need, and that the prosecution had not proved its case.
Mr. Blackley was convicted on Dec. 1, 1997. On March 13, 1998, Judge Royce C. Lamberth sentenced him to 27 months in prison, departing from sentencing guidelines that indicated probation for a defendant like Mr. Blackley, whose offense was his first of any kind.
"The defendant was a high-level Government official," Judge Lamberth said, calling his conduct "despicable" and saying he wanted to send a message to other officials who might be tempted to be greedy and lie.
Mr. Krantz lost an appeal before the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He has asked the Supreme Court to review the case, on the grounds that the independent counsel should never have pursued Mr. Blackley, and that the sentence was excessive.
Mr. Blackley was was never called as a witness against Mr. Espy, who was acquitted on Dec. 2, 1998, a year and a day after Mr. Blackley was convicted.
After the acquittal, Mr. Smaltz defended his four-year, $17 million investigation. He noted that his office had gained more than a dozen convictions and garnered some $12 million in fines, including $6 million from Tyson Foods, which pleaded guilty to making illegal gifts to Mr. Espy, who was acquitted of taking them.
On April 27, the Supreme Court overturned one of the convictions obtained by Mr. Smaltz, setting aside a verdict against a California agricultural cooperative that had given the Secretary gifts. Simply giving gifts without a demonstrated link between the gifts and an official's actions did not violate the law against illegal gratuities, the Court held.
Mr. Krantz has prosecuted organized crime in Miami, taught law at Boston University and was dean of the University of San Diego Law School before settling in Washington to defend white-collar defendants. "I have never seen an injustice like this," he said of Mr. Blackley's case. "It shakes my confidence in the administration of justice."
Mr. Blackley and his wife are living in her mother's house in Mississippi, for now. His friends hold occasional fund-raising dinners.
He said he is not bitter. Is he afraid of prison? "No. I'll just go do it."
Afterward, he said, he will probably go back to Mississippi and return to farming. "I can't make too many long-term commitments," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald H. Blackley (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BRIBERY; ETHICS; SPECIAL PROSECUTORS (INDEPENDENT COUNSEL) INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); LAWYERS (88%); JURY TRIALS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ETHICS (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); FORECLOSURE (73%); BRIBERY (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ESPY, MIKE; BLACKLEY, RONALD H; SMALTZ, DONALD C; STOUT, DAVID RONALD H BLACKLEY (98%); MIKE ESPY (89%); SHELDON KRANTZ (73%); DONALD C SMALTZ (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



136 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: Port Authority Won Uphill Battle to Build Train to the Plane

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY 

 BODY:
In its all-out campaign to win approval for a rail line linking Kennedy International Airport to local subways and trains, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey recently treated some City Council members to a bus ride through Queens. It even provided some entertainment along the way: a brief clip from an old "Seinfeld" episode.
But the clip was hardly chosen at random. It showed one of the characters, Elaine, explaining her elaborate plans to reach Kennedy on time, only to be foiled by the perpetually clogged expressway leading to the airport, the roadway whose very name is a punch line: the dreaded Van Wyck. 
 And then, as if to demonstrate that life is too short to waste time imitating art, the bus load of Council members, who were heading to the rail line's proposed transfer point in Jamaica, got stuck in traffic on the Van Wyck.
The bus trip was just one aspect of the Port Authority's intense and ultimately successful mission to win a $1.5 billion project to connect the airport to the city's mass transit system -- a plan that its representatives agree is both imperfect and a hard sell.
Community boards in Queens questioned the disruption that building an elevated rail line down the middle of the Van Wyck would cause. Some transportation experts deplored the failure to link the system to La Guardia Airport in northern Queens and doubted its overall practicality. The staff of the City Council issued a report that described the project's purported economic benefits as illusory.
The authority also had to overcome the problem of its own reputation. One of its lobbyists described that reputation as "the evil empire." One of its executives went further: "We are the big fat bloated bureaucracy."
To overcome those perceptions, the authority hired a SWAT team of lobbyists, made expensive promises to various communities, showered southeastern Queens with marketing studies and fact sheets, and -- in the last days -- tinkered with the design to appease Peter F. Vallone, Speaker of the City Council.
It also had on its side a simplistic but nevertheless persuasive argument: Something is better than nothing.
One by one, the pieces fell into place. Very reluctantly, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani cut a deal that propelled the project forward. The Planning Commission described the project, called Airtrain, as a disaster-in-waiting, but then approved it. And despite the devastating Council report, two Council committees gave near-unanimous approval last week, clearing the way for the full Council to grant final approval this week.
In the end, they were all spurred by the realization that New York City lags far behind other cities in providing quick, convenient access to its airports. Travelers can reach Kennedy by public transit, but only circuitously. The trip involves taking the A train to the Howard Beach-Kennedy stop in Queens, about an hour from midtown Manhattan, and then a free bus to the terminals, which takes another 10 to 15 minutes.
John D. Sabini, the chairman of one of the Council committees that endorsed the Airtrain plan, reflected the lawmakers' general sentiment this way: "It's not the best project I've ever seen. But on the whole, weighing pluses and minuses, we thought this was the best thing -- and we voted for it."
"It's just one of those things: you hold your nose and vote for it," said one of the Port Authority's lobbyists, Martin McLaughlin. "But sometimes a flawed project is better than nothing at all."
For more than three decades, city officials, transportation experts and everyday travelers have cited the need for a dedicated mass-transit link to the city's two airports. But the proposals, which numbered at least 20, came up against what one authority official described as a regional attitude of "vote this down and do another study."
The last defeat came in 1995, when political opposition and rising costs led the Port Authority to kill plans for a 22-mile railway connecting Manhattan to La Guardia and Kennedy. New York officials at the authority considered the decision especially disturbing because plans were already in place to connect Newark International Airport to Pennsylvania Station.
Then, early last year, the authority held an elaborate press conference at which it unveiled a scaled-down proposal to build the Airtrain, a light-rail line over the Van Wyck that would link Kennedy with the Long Island Rail Road, subways, and buses in Jamaica, Queens. It announced that it had also awarded more than $1 billion in contracts to a team of companies to build and maintain the system, one that would require a transfer at Jamaica and not be the "one-seat" ride that most people preferred.
Mr. Giuliani initially balked at the plan, citing the need for riders to change at Jamaica and the lack of any link to La Guardia as flaws. But several months later he grudgingly gave his approval after an agreement was reached to dedicate $100 million to study a link to La Guardia.
Once the authority had the approval of the Mayor and Queens Borough President Claire Shulman, it needed the land-use endorsement of more entities: the community boards in Queens whose districts would be affected by construction, the Planning Commission and the City Council.
And at each turn it faced the heated opposition of the Airport Transport Association, an airline trade group. The group contended that Federal law prohibited using a $3-per-ticket surcharge imposed on all flights from Kennedy, which is providing the financing for the Airtrain, from being used for such links, and argued that the surcharge should be used to improve the airport.
"We also think it's a stupid project," a spokesman for the trade group said, pointing out that the Port Authority expects only 7,000 people a day to use the link from Jamaica, and another 4,000 to use a separate rail connection to be built from the airport to the subway station in Howard Beach.
The lines were drawn. The Port Authority eventually spent at least $185,000 to retain three lobbyists, and was joined in battle by the powerful General Contractors Association, which saw as many as 4,000 jobs in the offing. The airline group also spent more than $100,000 on lobbyists, and hired a public relations firm to spread its message.
Throughout the winter, the controversial proposal prompted shouts of protest at the hearings held by the community boards, especially those of Community Board 12 in Jamaica.
One Board 12 member, Ruth DuBerry, charged that rules of procedure were routinely flouted at the meetings, and that when she tried to restate a motion opposing the plan, someone pulled the microphone's plug. "The problem with these community organizations and boards is it's very hard to get legal help" to make their arguments, "whereas the Port Authority is well armed," said George Haikalis, a spokesman for the Committee for Better Transit, a nonprofit group trying to derail the Airtrain. "The message is, 'You don't take on the Port Authority.' "
The committee considered experiences like Ms. DuBerry's to be so pervasive that it put together a report called "Irregularities," which it has forwarded to the Attorney General's office.
But Sid Davidoff, one of the authority's lobbyists, dismissed the charge as frivolous. "Whenever someone loses a vote they always yell, 'Irregularities,' " he said. It was perfectly legitimate."
The authority eventually won over many in the Queens community with promises that went beyond beautifying the Van Wyck after construction. It also plans to build a new subway station in Howard Beach, renovate the Jamaica Long Island Rail Road station, which will be the transfer point to the Airtrain, set aside $150 million of the construction work for businesses owned by minorities and women, and spend $800,000 to enhance an aviation studies program at York College in Jamaica.
"It was critical that the Port Authority demonstrate a level of responsiveness to community concerns that broke the image of a distant bureaucracy," said Chris O. Ward, the authority's chief of planning and architect of its Airtrain campaign.
After winning approval from the three community boards involved, the Port Authority's next stop was the Planning Commission, whose members could not conceal their disdain. Its chairman, Joseph B. Rose, went so far as to say that "this project as currently conceived is clearly not a successful project."
Nevertheless, Mr. Rose and others voted to authorize the city to acquire property needed for the Airtrain tracks, which allowed the project to move on to the City Council, whose staff had already issued a report called "Train to the Plane or Money Down the Drain." The document tore the proposal apart: it cast doubt on its supposed economic benefits and ridiculed its logistics, painting a scenario in which passengers would have to carry luggage up and down stairs to make their connections.
"The report boxed him in," said one of the people representing the authority's interests, in reference to Mr. Vallone. "I thought that the work we had done would potentially stumble at the Council, and that we had a real shot at losing it."
But the authority continued on. Its lobbyists huddled with Council leaders, while its executives provided sandwiches and refreshments to Council members who had gone along for the bus ride. Most of all, it relied on the strength of its what-else-is-there argument.
After his own tour of the Jamaica station, Mr. Vallone suggested changes to the design that one of the authority's lobbyists emphasized to the agency had to be met for the proposal to win Council approval. Authority executives responded, and suddenly the plan included a baggage check-in area at the station, wider elevators, and an automated walkway to ease the transfer for riders with luggage.
Those changes, announced last week, permitted Mr. Vallone to join so many others in giving the Port Authority project the political equivalent of an air kiss.
"While it's clear that this project is not perfect, modern and improved access to our airports is vital to our city," he said. "Therefore, the Airtrain should proceed."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Opponents of a rail line to Kennedy Airport attended a City Council committee hearing on Tuesday. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 43)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); CITY COUNCIL (93%); PORT AUTHORITY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY CITY COUNCIL (93%); PORT AUTHORITY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); TRANSIT SYSTEMS; VAN WYCK EXPRESSWAY (NYC); CITY COUNCILS AIRPORTS (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); PORT AUTHORITIES (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LOBBYING (87%); MAYORS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); AIRLINES (73%); 

PERSON: BARRY, DAN; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



137 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1732 words

HEADLINE: Putting a Price on the Brooklyn Bridge

BYLINE: By MELODY PETERSEN 

 BODY:
New York City will have to dust off decades-old files to determine the value of the 116-year-old Brooklyn Bridge. California will have to value hundreds of miles of eight-lane freeways. And, hundreds of cities will struggle to tally up the cost of schools, jails and sewers built many years ago.
The group that sets the standards for how the nation's 84,000 state and local governments keep their books is expected to approve a plan this week that would require them to operate more like businesses, providing taxpayers with a complete picture of what their dollars buy. 
 The proposal, which has attracted little publicity, has nonetheless prompted hundreds of cities, towns and other local governments to deluge the rule makers with letters predicting how difficult and costly it will be to comply. Municipalities say they are already overburdened by work associated with the Year 2000 computer problem.
But citizens groups laud the plan, saying it will eventually arm taxpayers with new information that will help them understand when their politicians are spending too little, as well as when their ambitions have grown too large.
The plan would fundamentally change the way government officials look at almost all financial decisions, from spending on infrastructure to borrowing money to selling properties. But most significantly, it would make many costs that are now hidden and shifted to future administrations far more apparent.
"We think this is a major step in the right direction," said Roland Calia of the Governmental Research Association, which represents dozens of taxpayer groups across the nation. "This will help people raise questions about what their government is doing."
For many government officials, who until now have been allowed to live in the moment -- recognizing cash only when it comes in and costs only when the checks have been sent -- the changes are nothing short of momentous. Even officials who applaud the new rules say that the task of complying is daunting. Under the most significant and controversial change, governments will for the first time have to calculate the value of nearly every major asset they own, from roads to bridges to prisons to hospitals, even if those assets were acquired or built decades ago. Until now, the value of those projects vanished from view on the financial statements almost the moment the money was spent.
To comply, governments say they will have to hire armies of accountants, engineers, consultants and appraisers to come up with the numbers, money that could be spent on worthier causes.
"People are starting to think, 'I'm just not sure what I'm going to do,' " said Jake Lorentz, assistant director at the Government Finance Officers Association, a Chicago-based group of more than 14,000 state and local officials. That group has opposed the new rules because of the costs it would impose, especially on the smallest cities and towns.
The Governmental Accounting Standards Board, which is at the heart of the firestorm, has not been the object of such heated debate since it began setting rules in 1984. Based in Norwalk, Conn., the group's seven voting members are scheduled to approve Statement No. 34 on Thursday. Its 200 pages of particulars are expected to impact nearly every government in America, except the Federal Government, which writes its own rules. Tom L. Allen, the chairman of the board and the former auditor of Utah, said he expected unanimous approval.
Unless the board retreats, the largest governments would start using the rules for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2001. Smaller governments would have one or two more years to comply.
The rule makers have already made concessions in a few crucial areas to appease critics.
Governments with fewer than $10 million in annual revenues will not be required to go back and put a value on their existing infrastructure. Those small governments account for about two-thirds of the nation's total state and local governments. But in future years, they would be bound to the same rules as everyone else. And all governments would be exempt from having to establish values for assets that were acquired more than 25 years ago, unless significant renovations have taken place. Thus, the Brooklyn Bridge might have escaped the process, but it was renovated around the time of its centennial in 1983.
In another concession, the board is prepared to let the governments estimate the cost of historic projects if that is easier than going through old records and determining the actual expense. And governments will have another four years from the effective date of the rules to include the cost of projects built before the new rules were adopted.
Even then, much work will be required. In New York State, for instance, officials must value 37,000 miles of state-owned roads and 7,800 bridges as well as assign values to hundreds of university classrooms, state hospitals and prisons.
In Florida, Sam McCall, the state's deputy auditor general, said accountants would have to determine the cost of the giant Sunshine Skyway Bridge that spans Tampa Bay and was built in 1987. "In the past, we've taken the position that bridges were not going to be sold, so we haven't recorded it," he said.
By forcing states and cities to include the cost of bridges and roads on their annual financial statements, Mr. McCall said, it would not be so easy to put off crucial repairs when money is tight. "If you don't fix a pothole, it only gets bigger," he said. "This is progress."
The board can not legally enforce its rules. But most state and local governments are now required to abide by the board's standards as a condition of the municipal bonds they issue. And, in some states, lawmakers have passed legislation requiring cities and towns to follow the accounting board's rules. And unless they comply fully, governments could not expect their outside auditors to endorse their financial statements, a red flag that would invite taxpayer scrutiny.
The new rules move governments beyond a decades-old system where money is put into accounts, called funds, designated for categories of spending like construction or operations. The method helps officials stay in budget, but does little to show the governments' true financial position.
The board has been debating the wisdom of these new rules almost since its inception, especially since there is no easy answer just how to arrive at the values government officials are now expected to produce. Should a bridge be reported at how much it cost to build, or how much it would cost to replace or at some combination? Should those numbers be adjusted for inflation?
For now, the board has settled on relying largely on what governments actually spent in building or acquisition costs. Those numbers would decrease for each year of wear and tear, or increase if the government was spending on meaningful improvements. As vexing as all that is, governments also have to hazard a guess on how many years those highways, bridges, prisons, schools, firetrucks and other assets might last.
With that information, governments' willingness to undertake certain projects -- and what taxpayers understand about those projects -- will almost certainly change.
For example, a state that builds a prison for $100 million and expects the building to last for 50 years would show $2 million in building costs each year under the proposal. Currently, however, the state would just report a one-time expense of $100 million in the year the prison was built. In later years, voters who look at the financial statements would see salaries for correctional officers but nothing for the prison walls.
"We haven't known in the past what it cost to operate a prison," Mr. McCall said. "This will help people understand what it costs to operate the government."
Under the proposed system, voters would see the total cost of operating the correctional system, allowing them to weigh the trade-offs between building prisons and, for instance, paying for projects that keep people out of prison.
In yet another significant break with the past, governments would no longer be able to shift a cost to the next year simply by delaying payment. Until now, governments have been allowed to wait to record an expense until a bill was paid, a financial maneuver that is like allowing consumers to pretend they did not owe money on credit card purchases. But the new rules will require governments to accrue costs in the same way businesses do. For example, a cost will be recorded when office supplies are delivered, not when the bill is eventually paid.
"The system has been like a little family checkbook," said Wilbur L. Ross, executive managing director of Rothschild Inc., who has advised New York City on some financial matters in the past. "That is no way to run a thing as big and complicated as a city like New York."
Less controversial is a plan requiring governments to prepare one comprehensive financial statement to account for all the money coming in and going out. Now, governments account for their services in many different funds, which has confused both citizens and financial experts.
But governments would also be encouraged to provide detailed breakdowns on specific services so that taxpayers can see how much it costs to provide police protection, run the schools, pick up garbage, or offer amenities like public golf courses.
The accounting board is also poised to require government managers to answer for themselves, much the way executives of public companies do. Each fiscal year, elected officials would have to give taxpayers "an objective and easily readable analysis" of the government's financial performance. It would have to explain such things as why they sold a large piece of land or issued millions of dollars in bonds. And for the first time, officials must explain why they spent more than was approved in the budget at the beginning of the year.
"Citizens will be able to see government as a whole so that there can no longer be any games played simply by moving things around," said Andrew S. Rein, who has spent years trying to track how the governments of New York City and New York State spend taxpayer money as a research analyst for the Citizens Budget Office, a nonprofit group. "They will have a much better view of what is going on."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom L. Allen, chairman of the board that sets the accounting standards for state and local governments, expects unanimous approval for a plan that would require officials to calculate the value of most major assets. (David Gatley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; LOCAL GOVERNMENT REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ACCOUNTING (84%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); APPROVALS (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (67%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (53%); 

PERSON: PETERSEN, MELODY; ALLEN, TOM L

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



138 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: As Welfare Rolls Shrink, Cities Shoulder Bigger Load

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5

 BODY:
Welfare rolls are shrinking more slowly in big cities than elsewhere in their states and, as a result, welfare recipients are increasingly concentrated in urban areas, state and local officials and welfare policy experts say.
"The largest American cities are becoming home to a larger and larger share of the nation's welfare recipients," said Bruce Katz, director of the Center on Urban and Metropolitan Policy at the Brookings Institution here. 
 Urban counties containing the 30 largest American cities have 20 percent of the nation's population, but 39 percent of the welfare recipients -- up from 33 percent in 1994, Mr. Katz said. He recently completed a two-year study of welfare rolls in America's cities, methodically tabulating caseload data for each city after finding that the Federal Government no longer collected such information.
From 1994 to 1998, the number of families on welfare declined 35 percent in the big cities (those with populations of more than 470,000), compared with a decline of 44 percent for the nation as a whole.
Federal, state and local officials offer many explanations for the disparities.
Donna R. Cooper, a Deputy Mayor of Philadelphia, said: "Philadelphia, the city proper, has had a weak economy with a slow recovery from the last recession. The proportion of welfare recipients who have been on the rolls for two years or more is higher here than in the rest of the state."
Philadelphia had 39 percent of the families receiving welfare in Pennsylvania in 1994, but the proportion reached 47 percent last year.
A booming economy has created millions of jobs across the country. But Ms. Cooper said that job growth in Philadelphia had been stunted because of "an extraordinarily high business tax burden," which includes a 4.7 percent tax on wages. A recent report from Mayor Edward G. Rendell, a Democrat, said that Philadelphia's "oppressive tax structure" had driven hundreds of businesses from the city and caused the loss of tens of thousands of jobs.
In addition, Ms. Cooper said, auto insurance premiums are extremely high for many inner-city neighborhoods of Philadelphia, so it is difficult for poor people to afford cars to get to jobs in the suburbs.
Michael Kharfen, a spokesman for the Federal Department of Health and Human Services, said: "Three-fourths of the people on welfare live in inner cities. But two-thirds to three-fourths of all new jobs are being created outside urban areas."
New York City has aggressively reduced its welfare rolls, converting welfare offices to job centers and emphasizing "work first."
From 1994 to 1998, the number of families on welfare in New York City declined 28 percent, to 225,651, while the total number of families on welfare in New York State declined 30 percent, to 323,723. The city now has 70 percent of the state's welfare cases, up from 68 percent in 1994.
Likewise, Los Angeles County now has 37 percent of the families on welfare in California, up from 34 percent in 1994, while Chicago (Cook County) has 74 percent of the Illinois caseload, up from 66 percent in 1994.
In general, Mr. Katz said, people who remain on welfare are those with the most problems. They are more likely to have mental illnesses, learning disabilities or histories of alcohol and drug abuse. They tend to have fewer job skills, less formal education and less work experience. Many of the women suffer abuse from husbands or companions.
Mr. Katz found that Baltimore's share of the Maryland caseload rose to 56 percent in 1998, from 48 percent in 1994, while Detroit's share of the Michigan total rose to 48 percent, from 42 percent. Shelby County, Tenn., which includes Memphis, has 35 percent of the state's welfare families, up from 28 percent in 1994. Cleveland has 24 percent of Ohio's cases, up from 19 percent in 1994.
In theory, states now have more money to spend on each welfare recipient because they receive a fixed amount of Federal welfare money each year, a "block grant," even if the number of welfare recipients declines. But Ms. Cooper noted that the money goes to the state, and she said there was no guarantee that the governor and the state legislature would provide money to cities in proportion to their needs.
"There's a bias in Harrisburg against appropriating resources to the City of Philadelphia," Ms. Cooper said. "That's a historic bias. It's like a mantra: no state money in Philadelphia." Disagreements over welfare policy have caused "considerable antagonism between the city and the state," which cooperate on many other issues, Ms. Cooper said.
B. J. Walker, director of operations at the Illinois Department of Human Services, said Chicago and Cook County had initially lagged behind other parts of the state in responding to the landmark welfare law approved by Congress in 1996. But that has changed, Ms. Walker said, and the city accounts for much of the recent decline in the state's welfare rolls.
"Month after month in the last year," Ms. Walker said, "we've seen a rise in the number of welfare recipients who are working in poverty-stricken communities of Chicago."
A few cities, defying the national trend, have reduced their welfare rolls faster than the states in which they are located. These cities include San Jose, Calif., in Santa Clara County.
Steven C. Szalay, executive director of the California State Association of Counties, said, "Santa Clara came out of the recession early and did a tremendous amount of work to anticipate welfare reform," using its own money to provide job training, child care and transportation for welfare recipients.
The growing concentration of recipients in big cities coincides with changes in the racial and ethnic profile of families on welfare. Whites are leaving the welfare rolls much faster than black and Hispanic families, and the minority share of the caseload has, as a result, risen to the highest level on record. Black and Hispanic welfare recipients together outnumber whites by about 2 to 1.
Federal officials carefully monitor the number of welfare recipients in each state. But Mr. Kharfen, from the Department of Health and Human Services, said the Federal Government stopped collecting welfare data on counties and metropolitan areas about five years ago, when officials placed a higher priority on carrying out changes in welfare.
Mr. Katz said his research on the cities should serve as "a cautionary note for states that are boasting a bit too loudly about the dramatic declines in welfare caseloads." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA (PA); SAN JOSE (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); URBAN AREAS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS CITIES (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (77%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); JOB CREATION (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (68%); SUBURBS (60%); CORPORATE TAX (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT ED RENDELL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



139 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1684 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Task Force Says CUNY Is Adrift and Needs an Overhaul

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Saying that the City University of New York is "an institution adrift" and is "caught in a spiral of decline," a mayoral task force is calling for a total restructuring of the university.
In a report released yesterday, the task force also assailed the New York City public school system, charging that "CUNY is inundated by New York City public school graduates who lack basic skills." 
 Conceding that the criticism was valid, Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew unveiled initiatives yesterday to bolster the school system, including cash incentives for teachers and principals who agree to work in troubled schools. Borrowing language from the CUNY report, Dr. Crew said it was time to reinvent the school system and called it a "wonderful opportunity" to act. Page 44.
With CUNY's new chairman pledging to build on the recommendations in the report, and with backing from Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, the report appears to have laid the groundwork for intensive discussion and coordinated efforts to remake the city's public education system from kindergarten through college.
The report reaffirms CUNY's historic mission of providing access to higher education for the city's diverse population. But it says that if the university is to educate New Yorkers effectively, it must be transformed from a loosely managed confederation of scattered institutions with no direction and few standards into a tightly managed operation that measures what its students know when they enter, what they learn and which approaches are most effective in teaching them. Excerpts, page 44.
With nearly 200,000 students and a budget of almost $2 billion, City University is the nation's third-largest public university system. "The word chaotic doesn't even begin to describe it; it's moribund," Benno C. Schmidt Jr., the task force chairman, said in an interview on Friday. "That suggests a huge opportunity, but first CUNY needs to invent itself."
While the report is highly critical of CUNY, as expected, it assigns some blame for the university's problems to the city and the state, and particularly to New York City's weak public schools. It also says the state's system of financial aid forces many students who are not prepared for college work to enroll at CUNY, because that is the only way they can receive financial support for their remedial work.
Unlike many reports, which end up sitting on the shelf after they are issued, the Schmidt report has an unusually good chance of becoming a blueprint for change. The panel was handpicked by the Mayor, who along with Mr. Pataki has been pressing to overhaul the university, and a majority of the university's trustees support that goal.
Speaking at Belmont Race Track yesterday, the Mayor called the report "an excellent work," adding, "What we want to do is make it into a real college, a college where when someone gets a degree it means something."
In addition, Herman Badillo, a member of the task force who was promoted to the chairmanship of the board of trustees last weekend, is in a unique position to press for the task force's recommendations. He said the report would serve as the university's "goal posts."
The panel offers many recommendations, including the following:
*The state and the city should provide separate, additional financing for students needing remedial instruction so they can receive it free and not use their college aid while they learn reading, writing and mathematics skills they should have learned before college.
*City University should continue to offer remedial courses, but only at its community colleges, and it must test students more carefully before and after the courses to find out which approaches work best.
*The university should designate at least two of its senior colleges as flagship institutions that can attract students of high academic promise.
*The university must work with New York City's public high schools to try to raise their quality.
"At the eve of a new century," the report says, "the United States urgently needs a model of the urban public university, and CUNY should be that model of excellence."
The study comes as many universities, particularly urban universities, are struggling to cope with a flood of poorly educated high school graduates and with immigrants who speak little or no English but are desperate for a college education to help them prosper.
The Mayor created the task force in May 1998 to force greater change at CUNY, which he contended had unacceptably low standards. At the time, there was widespread skepticism that the panel would do anything more than recommend shrinking the university and turning its work over to private universities and corporations, since many of the panel's seven members were critics of CUNY or advocates for privatization of government functions.
Mr. Schmidt, for example, is chairman of the Edison Project, a private company that manages public schools for profit. Richard Schwartz, another member, is a former senior adviser to Mr. Giuliani who helped plan New York City's welfare-to-work initiatives and privatization efforts. And Mr. Badillo and Heather MacDonald, a fellow at the Manhattan Institute, have been two of the university's most vocal critics.
Nonetheless, the report argues forcefully that the university is critically important for New York, and, if anything, should be expanded. "CUNY's historic missions -- to provide broad access to a range of higher education opportunities of quality, suited to New York City's diverse population and to the city's needs -- will be more important in the 21st century than ever before," it says.
In addition, the task force was measured in its response to the Mayor's request to tell him how to privatize the university's remedial functions. Rather than urging that such instruction be shifted to private companies and private colleges, as the Mayor has advocated, the report calls for experiments to stimulate competition.
The report largely steers clear of delicate political issues. One is whether years of public budget cuts by the state and the city have left CUNY too lean to run a first-class academic institution. Another is what responsibility the Mayor, the Governor and the trustees bear for setting CUNY adrift.
The Governor's and Mayor's trustees have controlled CUNY's board for nearly three years, and Anne A. Paolucci and Mr. Badillo, Mr. Pataki's appointees as chairwoman and vice chairman, have led the board for two and a half years. One of the panel's research papers relates some of the board politics. But the findings are not incorporated into the panel's report.
One surprise to some task force members, including Mr. Badillo, was the poor test scores of students at the university's most selective colleges. The report said that although those schools still received some top students, the average Scholastic Assessment Test scores at those colleges were below the national average for high school students.
"CUNY gets very few students from New York City's best high schools," the report said. "Students with choices go elsewhere."
Mr. Schmidt said that in an era when a college degree has become "virtually the only source of opportunity," he hoped that the report would offer important help not only for CUNY but for all urban universities.
"CUNY has the chance to be the model for great public urban universities for the next century, the way land-grant institutions were in the last century, and it's absolutely vital to make it right," he said.
Many CUNY supporters have characterized CUNY's decision to remove remedial students from the senior colleges as an assault on open admissions, the policy CUNY adopted in the late 1960's to allow all high school graduates to enter.
Mr. Schmidt said the report was not an attack on open admissions. "This affirms the principle that CUNY is for anyone with a high school diploma and for immigrants and for returning adults; it is the way CUNY goes about it that is very, very flawed."
Besides briefing the Mayor, Mr. Schmidt personally briefed Governor Pataki. On Friday, the Governor's press secretary, Michael McKeon, said Mr. Pataki was pleased with the report.
"This sets such a positive tone for change," he said. But he said he could not comment on how the Governor would respond to the report's recommendation for additional financial aid for remedial students because the Governor's staff was still going over the details of the report.
The Mayor's office said the 109-page report would be posted on the city's Web site (www.ci.nyc.ny.us). The task force made copies of the report and its 10 volumes of supporting studies available to newspapers on Friday on the condition that no articles be published until tomorrow. It lifted the embargo after The Daily News printed articles about the report yesterday that it said were based on an earlier draft.
Mr. Schmidt, formerly dean of Columbia University's Law School and president of Yale University, approached the panel's investigation like a research project, making it into virtually a second full-time job.
Over the course of a year, he met twice a month and sometimes more frequently with the other members. He and staff members visited all of the university's 17 undergraduate campuses and interviewed hundreds of students, professors, administrators and others. They held several public hearings, some marked by outraged protests by students and professors. And they commissioned reports from the Rand Corporation and PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm.
The task force raised $300,000 from eight foundations to help pay for the $600,000 in consulting work, and is still trying to raise more.
A large section of the report concerns the university's structure and governance. Although City College was established in 1847, CUNY was not put together in its current form until 1961. "As far as we can tell, no one ever tried to say what this system should be as a system," Mr. Schmidt said. "This is a system that's never been constituted."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Benno C. Schmidt Jr., chairman of a task force that evaluated CUNY. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 44)
 
Charts: "Unprepared to Start - or to Finish"
According to the Schmidt report, the CUNY system is plagued by an ill-prepared student body and high dropout rates. The report's analysis of CUNY records and national statistics yielded a discouraging profile.
 
Troubled from the outset . . .
 
National percentile ranges: 90th & up
Number of CUNY colleges with average 1997 freshman S.A.T. scores in each range*: 0
 
National percentile ranges: 80th & up
Number of CUNY colleges with average 1997 freshman S.A.T. scores in each range*: 0
 
National percentile ranges: 70th & up
Number of CUNY colleges with average 1997 freshman S.A.T. scores in each range*: 0
 
National percentile ranges: 60th & up
Number of CUNY colleges with average 1997 freshman S.A.T. scores in each range*: 0
 
National percentile ranges: 50th & up
Number of CUNY colleges with average 1997 freshman S.A.T. scores in each range*: 0
 
National percentile ranges: 40th & up
Number of CUNY colleges with average 1997 freshman S.A.T. scores in each range*: 0
 
National percentile ranges: 30th & up
Number of CUNY colleges with average 1997 freshman S.A.T. scores in each range*: 6
 
National percentile ranges: 20th & up
Number of CUNY colleges with average 1997 freshman S.A.T. scores in each range*: 3
 
National percentile ranges: 13th - 19th
Number of CUNY colleges with average 1997 freshman S.A.T. scores in each range*: 7
 
National percentile ranges: 1st - 12th
Number of CUNY colleges with average 1997 freshman S.A.T. scores in each range*: 3
 
* Medgar Evers College was excluded because of its small numbers
 
Percentage of freshmen requiring some form of remedial instruction.
 
CUNY vs. United States 2-year/community colleges
CUNY -- 87%
U.S. Public --41%
 
4-year/senior colleges
CUNY -- 72%
U.S. Public -- 22%
 
Total
CUNY system -- 78%
All U.S. -- 29%
 
. . . and unable to follow through
 
Percentage of first-time, full-time bachelor's candidates graduating at the same institution within six years.
(Source: The City University of New York: An Institution Adrift, Report of the Mayor's Advisory Task Force)
(pg. 44)
 
"THE TASK FORCE: Designing a New University"
The Mayor's Advisory Task Force on the City University of New York was appointed on May 6, 1998. The panel's mission was to study the system in an effort to bring about change at a university that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani argued had unacceptably low standards.
 
The Charge
*To study how CUNY spends its city subsidy.
*To examine the effects of open admissions and remedial education on CUNY's ability to provide a high quality education.
*To determine the best means of arranging for other institutions to provide remedial education so that CUNY students can perform college level work before being admitted to the university.
 
The Members
 THE CHAIRMAN, BENNO C. SCHMIDT JR. Chairman and chief executive of the Edison Project, a private company that manages 51 public schools under contract. Former president of Yale Universi ty and former dean of Columbia University Law School.
HERMAN BADILLO Private attorney and new chair man of CUNY board of trustees. Mayor Giuliani's adviser on education. Former Congressman, Bronx Borough President and deputy mayor to Edward I. Koch.
JACQUELINE V. BRADY Vice president in the struc ture finance group of Nomura Securities Interna tional Inc. A graduate of Haverford College with a master's degree in international economics and international relations from Johns Hopkins Univer sity.
HEATHER MacDONALD John M. Olin fellow at The Manhattan Institute and a contributing editor to City Journal. Bachelor's degree from Yale Univer sity, master's degree from Cambridge University and Juris Doctor from Stanford University.
MANFRED OHRENSTEIN Lawyer and former minor ity leader in the New York State Senate, where he was chairman of the Joint Legislative Committee on Higher Education. Served as a member of the CUNY Commission on Open Admissions. Gradu ate of CUNY's Brooklyn College.
RICHARD T. ROBERTS Commissioner of New York City's Department of Housing Preservation and Development since 1997. Served as assistant to Mayor Giuliani in 1994 and 1995, working on "reinventing city government." Former vice presi dent for government and community relations at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
RICHARD SCHWARTZ President and chief execu tive of Opportunity America, a national consulting company that runs workfare programs. Former senior adviser to Mayor Giuliani; helped design the city's welfare-to-work program and privatiza tion efforts.
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, ROGER BENJAMIN President of the Council for Aid to Education (an independent subsidiary of the Rand Corporation) and former provost of the University of Minnesota and the University of Pittsburgh. (pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (59%); COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (59%); COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SCHOLASTIC ASSESSMENT TEST; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (72%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; SCHMIDT, BENNO C JR; CREW, RUDY (CHANCELLOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BADILLO, HERMAN RUDY GIULIANI (93%); JONATHAN I SCHWARTZ (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



140 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 5502 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: DOING THE DEAL -- A special report.;
A Long Struggle That Led Serb Leader to Back Down

 BODY:
Slobodan Milosevic kicked off the negotiations with his usual historical harangue.
The Serbian strongman lectured a Russian envoy, Victor S. Chernomyrdin, and President Martti Ahtisaari of Finland on Wednesday on the meaning of Kosovo to the Serbs. 
 Finally, Mr. Ahtisaari cut him off.
The Finn wanted to know what Mr. Milosevic was going to do.
He and Mr. Chernomyrdin had come to Belgrade with a take-it-or-leave-it deal. They told Mr. Milosevic that there could be no changes. They told him, too, that if he left, NATO's pounding of Yugoslavia would continue and the terms of any future agreement would only be more painful.
"We accept your terms," Mr. Milosevic said, stunning the negotiators with his abruptness.
So ended a 10-week struggle to compel Mr. Milosevic to say uncle. It had begun with a disastrous assumption: The American-led NATO alliance guessed wrongly that Mr. Milosevic would cut his losses in Kosovo after just a few days of bombing. But that blunder was corrected slowly, and often imperceptibly, as the Serbs, both soldiers and civilians, were punished by high-tech air power.
The turning points were NATO's ability to stick together, its tactical embrace of Russian negotiating help and a Russian-American epiphany at breakfast in Washington. That brought on board Mr. Ahtisaari, from neutral Finland; he was acceptable to Mr. Milosevic and the Russians even as he played hardball for NATO.
It was a curious mismatch of a war.
In the near corner stood the richest, best-armed military alliance in history: the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which had been around for 50 years without having to fight a war. It was big, but bulky. All 19 of its members had to agree before it could throw a punch.
In the far corner stood a wily Balkan dictator who answered to no one but himself: President Milosevic specialized in using thugs and his antiquated army to fight hugely destructive wars that he ultimately lost, but that whipped up nationalist fervor inside Serbia. They had kept him in power in a new Europe that has no stomach for dictators.
Equally odd were the rules. As President Clinton laid them down on Day 1: "I do not intend to put our troops in Kosovo to fight a war."
Because of White House skittishness about American combat deaths, NATO was obliged to do what had never been done: win a war without risking its own soldiers on the ground.
If the peace deal holds up, the curious war comes out this way: The bulky alliance won, but at a savage cost to the people who were supposed to be protected. Much of Kosovo has been razed, more than one million of its Albanian residents have been uprooted, and thousands of innocents have been killed. The West will have to spend many billions of dollars to rebuild what NATO bombs and the Serbs have destroyed.
The dictator lost, but he stays on in his shrinking Yugoslavia. If his bad habits hold and if the Serbs do not depose him, he may well cause trouble another day.
And just possibly a new lesson in war has been learned. Thanks to the wonders of high-techology weaponry, an overwhelmingly powerful alliance can crush a small nation's aggressive will without having to risk its own soldiers, if it is willing to spend enough money and if it can stomach mistakes that kill innocent civilians.
In the end it was a 72-day campaign of violent accretion.
As bombs did their work, diplomats from the United States, Western Europe and Russia ignored the West's oratory about Mr. Milosevic's being a latter-day Hitler and went about the delicate business of offering him an exit.
As the bombs did their work, Mr. Milosevic's forces did what damage they could in Kosovo; then he prepared his people for another lost war. As soon as he was offered a way to stay in power while losing, he jumped on it.
 
The Bombing Begins
'Lessons' of Bosnia Did Not Apply
Generals and politicians often learn the wrong lessons from the last war. The wrong lesson that American officials took from dropping bombs to end the war in Bosnia in 1995 was that Mr. Milosevic would fold after a few days of air strikes.
In a last-chance attempt to head off war in Kosovo on March 23, Richard C. Holbrooke, the United States special envoy to Yugoslavia, failed to scare Mr. Milosevic with the threat of imminent bombing.
On his way out of the country, Mr. Holbrooke was asked if he feared that NATO's air attacks would push the Serbs into ever more vicious "ethnic cleansing."
"That is our greatest fear by far, by far," he replied.
Asked what NATO, operating only from the air, could do to prevent a catastrophe, Mr. Holbrooke went silent and shrugged.
The bombing began on March 24 and on Monday, March 29, in the Oval Office, the grim faces of the President's top foreign policy advisers, captured in official photographs and in the memories of participants, told the story: War in the Balkans was going to be brutish -- and not short. Hundreds of thousands of Kosovo Albanians were being terrorized and bullied out of Kosovo by Mr. Milosevic's forces and NATO seemed helpless to stop it.
The President and other officials insisted in public that they had anticipated Mr. Milosevic's defiance and had expected his brutal ethnic assault on Kosovo.
But in private they acknowledged their shock, disappointment and miscalculation. "It's one thing to say we expected this," a senior adviser said. "But living it is not the same as thinking about it."
Not only had Mr. Milosevic refused to give in; Yugoslav antiaircraft gunners had downed an American F-117 stealth fighter the night before. The loss of the aircraft, one of the jewels of the American arsenal, was a propaganda coup for Serbia and an embarrassing display of the vulnerability of high-technology weaponry.
Mr. Clinton concluded that his top aides -- including the Secretaries of State and Defense and the Director of Central Intelligence -- needed an injection of fighting spirit.
"Guys, let's not lose sight of why we did this," the President told the group, according to one participant. "Let's not forget what prompted us to do this and who is responsible."
The responsible party, Mr. Milosevic, had been the principal provocateur in the collapse of Yugoslavia. He had orchestrated the bloodiest explosion of violence Europe has endured since World War II. During the 10-week war in Kosovo, he presided over a grisly forced exodus that outraged the world, and he was indicted by an international court on charges of war crimes.
But he is not a fool, and he had compelling reasons for fighting, many of which made popular sense in Serbia. Kosovo has genuine religious and historical meaning to 10 million Serbs. Peacefully surrendering control to the Kosovo Albanians would have been a national humiliation.
As important, at least to Mr. Milosevic, Kosovo was where he found his feet as a strongman. In 1989, when he was President of Serbia, he stripped the Albanian majority of its power by revoking the autonomy that the province had been given and tapped a deep vein of rage among Serbs who for decades had resented the influence of other ethnic groups in Tito's Yugoslavia.
At the Rambouillet conference outside Paris in February, after 12 months during which an armed rebel movement in Kosovo killed several dozen Serbian policemen and Serbs committed atrocities against civilians, the West presented Mr. Milosevic with what he and many Serbs regarded as a "capitulate or be bombed" agreement. "If there had been any 'cake,' Mr. Milosevic might have cut a deal," said Vuk Draskovic, then a minister in the Yugoslav Government.
There was no cake to offer, as Mr. Holbrooke, looking defeated and deeply worried, acknowledged on his way out of Belgrade. The next day, March 24, the bombs began to fall. To Washington's astonishment, Mr. Milosevic was more than ready for war.
 
Stage 2
The Only Alternative: More Fire Power
The day the bombing began, one top Air Force general in Washington fretted privately about a "new Vietnam." On June 2, the day before the peace deal was announced, another very senior Pentagon official expressed doubt that the air war could ever be won and predicted that the bombing could go on for years.
It was a "hope to win" strategy, said Colin L. Powell, the retired general and architect of the Persian Gulf war in 1991, which was won with a combined air-land-sea strategy of overwhelming force.
The hope was that just a few bombs would push Mr. Milosevic back to the bargaining table. But the Serbian leader had begun a blitzkrieg of ethnic purges, burning and looting Albanians' homes and killing and mutilating enough Albanians to send hundreds of thousands of others fleeing at the first sound of rifle butts against their doors.
But the White House did not have a Plan B.
Mr. Clinton came to realize that his ruling out of ground troops was a mistake, according to a White House official, and the President last month made a point of saying he was keeping all options open.
"The President has never been prepared to lose," this official said. "From the first day, he said we have to win this. It was absolutely clear. Because of the consequences for the U.S., for NATO, for his responsibilities as Commander in Chief, we had to win this."
NATO's only alternative, then, was to bomb -- a lot.
More than 33,000 missions were flown, and during 12,500 of them, bombs were dropped or missiles were fired. Hampered by bad weather and political fears in the alliance, the air campaign started out slowly and ineffectively.
But over time more precise weapons allowed NATO to destroy virtually any major target it wanted at minimal risk to its pilots. Only two aircraft were lost, and both pilots were quickly rescued. While three Americans were captured on the ground -- abducted, Americans believed, by Macedonians sympathetic to Yugoslavia -- they were eventually released.
In the last weeks of the war, a rebel Albanian offensive flushed Serbian forces out of hiding places along the Kosovo borders and NATO aircraft were able to cut many of them down.
 
'Collateral Damage'
Making Mistakes, Mending the Rifts
Mistakes in the air campaign -- the bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade and attacks on passenger trains, buses, hospitals, bridges and apartment buildings that killed 1,500 civilians, by Yugoslav estimates -- brought apologies from NATO, but no change in tactics. As weeks passed, NATO commanders were given increasing license to go after targets like electricity grids and water supplies. For the first time in a decade of war in Yugoslavia, the suffering was brought home to the Serbs.
"Nobody in the Administration said we have to rethink this campaign, absolutely not," a senior White House official said.
The mistaken bombing of the Chinese Embassy on May 7 threatened to splinter the alliance; some members, notably Greece, Italy and Germany, faced mounting domestic protests over the steadily climbing civilian death toll.
As orchestrated violence erupted in China, with mobs trapping the American Ambassador in his embassy, the allies realized that there was no turning back on the bombing.
In fact, the Chinese Embassy debacle marked a turning point, one at which formerly reluctant NATO members agreed to widen the range of targets.
"They wanted the bombing to come to an end quickly but realized we needed to intensify to make that happen," an official said. "The flip side of intensification was there would be more collateral damage."
Long before the bombing campaign began to bear fruit, the Clinton Administration had to orchestrate the 50th anniversary of NATO in Washington so that the alliance would not be torn apart by divisions on how to find an endgame in Kosovo.
By the time of that late April meeting, the Greeks and Italians were already making noises about a halt in the air campaign. Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain was making even louder noises, giving speech after speech about how NATO ought to capitalize on the bombing. He wanted to send in ground troops after the Serbian forces were demoralized and crippled, but before there was an agreement to withdraw.
The alliance, though, held together. Mr. Clinton pushed the issue of ground troops off the table by convincing NATO's Secretary General, Javier Solana, to announce a formal assessment of ground-troop options in the weeks after the summit ceremony.
The NATO leaders presented a united front, cobbling together a set of core demands that the White House spokesman, Joe Lockhart, summarized in four words, "Serbs out, refugees back." These demands, plus the nonnegotiable insistence that Kosovo be occupied by an international force with NATO at its core, formed the basis of the peace plan that Mr. Milosevic signed six weeks later.
But there are two crucial differences between what he accepted and the Rambouillet plan, from Mr. Milosevic's point of view.
Rambouillet called for a referendum that could have led to Kosovo's independence after three years -- a provision put in at the insistence of Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright to persuade Albanian leaders to sign the agreement.
That was anathema to the Serbs. Kosovo's future is left vague in the current settlement. Another difference is that the international force is not composed solely of NATO soldiers and is to operate under United Nations auspices.
 
The Russians
Trying to Sidestep Slavic Allegiances
There remained, though, a towering brick wall between NATO and any peace settlement with Mr. Milosevic: the Russians.
The night the bombing began Russia denounced it as an act of brazen aggression and suspended cooperation with NATO. Yevgeny M. Primakov, then the Prime Minister, made a dramatic U-turn in the sky, turning his plane back from a trip to Washington at which Russia had hoped to win loans from the International Monetary Fund for its crumbling economy.
As it happens, the U-turn was staged to appease an angry Russian public that sympathized with the Serbs, according to a Russian adviser to President Boris N. Yeltsin. He said Mr. Primakov had been informed before his plane took off that the bombing would start. But an aide to Al Gore said the Vice President had informed Mr. Primakov by telephone when the plane was over the North Atlantic that allied bombing of Yugoslavia would probably begin within days.
Mr. Milosevic, desperate for a partner in his war against the West, seized on Russia's support and demanded that its traditional Slavic ally become a player in any deal.
But the Russian Government's enthusiasm for Mr. Milosevic, notwithstanding its bravura show of solidarity as the bombing began, has always been tepid. Mr. Milosevic, after all, had supported the Communist generals who sided against Mr. Yeltsin in the 1991 attempted coup against the last Soviet President. Mikhail S. Gorbachev. As Mr. Chernomyrdin, Russia's envoy to the Balkans, later told German officials, "Russia cannot identify with this guy."
Moscow was squeezed between a domestic political need to appear to be defending the interest of the Serbs, and a compelling economic need to secure more financial help from the West.
After the bombing began, many Western European leaders tried to entice Mr. Yeltsin back into cooperation with NATO. Since the peace agreement, officials in Bonn and Washington have both claimed that they had played the pivotal role.
Germany, it seems, had greased the diplomatic track before serious contacts were made between Washington and Moscow. Michael Steiner, chief diplomatic adviser to Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, was driven at first by the conviction that the Russians had to be brought on board for a political solution to be reached. Otherwise, Mr. Milosevic would always have wriggle room.
A political solution was the only viable way out for Germany because if NATO moved toward a ground invasion, Mr. Schroder's coalition Government would almost certainly fall. The Green Party, a key part of the coalition, adamantly opposed a ground war. Because Germany, then, would not back a ground invasion, a political solution was needed to avoid a hugely damaging rift in NATO.
But there was a central difficulty in winning over the Russians. It was Mr. Primakov, whom the Americans had long distrusted since his attempt to interject himself as a mediator on behalf of Saddam Hussein during the gulf war in 1991.
"Internally, we never said 'the Russians,' " Mr. Steiner said. "We said 'Yeltsin and Primakov,' because we knew there were different positions and different possibilities there. And we always had the sense that Primakov might go before the end of the crisis."
Mr. Primakov's first visit to Bonn on March 30 was a disaster. He had been in Belgrade on March 29 and came straight from Mr. Milosevic to meet with Mr. Schroder. His position shocked the Germans. He was supportive of Mr. Milosevic and denounced the "illegality" of the NATO bombardment.
"He spoke in this turgid bureaucratic language of the old Communist past," Mr. Steiner said, "and what he had to say was essentially that Russia defended Milosevic's position."
Almost from the outset, however, German contacts with Mr. Yeltsin suggested that he saw little sense in putting Russia's standing in the West on the line for Mr. Milosevic. Mr. Yeltsin's appointment of Mr. Chernomyrdin on April 14 as special envoy to the Balkans was the first concrete sign that the Russian position was shifting. He fired Prime Minister Primakov a month later.
Mr. Chernomyrdin was quickly invited to Bonn, where the meeting with Mr. Schroder went much better. Mr. Chernomyrdin was no pushover, but he made clear from the start that he had no special sympathy for Mr. Milosevic.
 
The Mediation
Breakfast With Gore, Picking an Outsider
On April 25, 11 days after Mr. Chernomyrdin's appointment, Mr. Yeltsin called Mr. Clinton. The NATO anniversary summit meeting was still going on, and Mr. Clinton was in a secure holding room at the Mellon Auditorium in Washington preparing to address the closing session.
According to Administration officials, Mr. Yeltsin had decided that he had to reassert Moscow's position as a major world power or risk being marginalized in the most important conflict in Europe since the end of the cold war.
The two leaders spoke for 90 minutes, with Mr. Yeltsin presenting a variety of ideas for ending the Balkan war on terms acceptable to Moscow and Belgrade, according to an American official who spoke to Mr. Clinton immediately afterward.
Mr. Clinton rejected most of Mr. Yeltsin's suggestions as incompatible with the simple NATO principles: Serbian forces out, Kosovar Albanians back under the protection of a force with NATO at its core.
This rejection of Russia's ideas for ending the war while embracing Russia's desire to once again be a big league diplomatic player became a defining and productive pattern of the talks that produced the peace deal.
But one of Mr. Yeltsin's ideas did take root -- the reopening of the dormant channel of communication between Vice President Gore and Mr. Chernomyrdin, who had met regularly when Mr. Chernomyrdin was Prime Minister in what became a prime channel of American-Russian communication. They spoke twice by telephone during the following week, with Mr. Gore repeating the NATO position and Mr. Chernomyrdin replying that Mr. Milosevic was unbending in his resistance to the occupation of Kosovo by NATO forces.
With matters at a standstill, Mr. Yeltsin called Mr. Clinton again on Sunday, May 2, telling the President that he wanted to send his envoy to Washington.
Mr. Clinton said he would be happy to receive him, and did so the next day. Mr. Chernomyrdin met for 90 minutes in the Oval Office with the President and his foreign policy team, then traveled the three miles to Mr. Gore's official residence on Embassy Row.
That evening Mr. Chernomyrdin and his small delegation spent three hours with Mr. Gore; Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser; Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott, and Leon Fuerth, Mr. Gore's top foreign policy aide. Little progress was made, but the door was left open for new ideas.
At 7:30 the next morning, the Russians called Mr. Gore's staff. Mr. Chernomyrdin wanted to meet for breakfast. He had a new idea.
Over muffins at Mr. Gore's house, Mr. Chernomyrdin proposed a team of himself and someone who would be both acceptable to Mr. Milosevic and trusted by NATO. The idea excited the White House team, which had been joined by Ms. Albright. "I thought it was good to come at Milosevic from two angles," she recalled.
Someone suggested Kofi Annan, the United Nations Secretary General, but Ms. Albright quickly vetoed that idea. She had another name: President Ahtisaari of Finland, a patient negotiator who had worked 13 years for a peace in Namibia and a diplomat who for years has urged Europe to be patient with Russia. As the leader of a neutral nation, he could meet with Mr. Milosevic and, according to a senior Administration official, Ms. Albright trusted him not to compromise on NATO's demands.
"Voht!" Mr. Chernomyrdin replied in Russian. "That's it!"
In the coming weeks, after Mr. Ahtisaari was persuaded to come on board, the State Department devised what it called a double-magnet strategy with the Russian and the Finn.
As an Administration official put it, "they bring the Russians closer to us and in turn bring the Serbs closer to a deal."
The arrangement suited the Russians, who had warned that they would never serve as a mere "postman" for NATO's demands. Mr. Chernomyrdin could play good cop in negotiating with Mr. Milosevic, setting down general principles of peace, while Mr. Ahtisaari, the bad cop, could insist on the unpalatable details of surrendering Kosovo to a NATO-controlled force.
Ms. Albright busied herself stamping out what she called envoy envy. To that end, she made scores of phone calls -- to the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson, to members of Congress, to Czech and Greek leaders -- demanding that they stay out of Belgrade. Her aides say she was determined not to let Mr. Milosevic play envoys off against one another.
She was particularly adamant that the United Nations be kept backstage and out of Belgrade. Her aides say she put pressure on Secretary General Annan to delay appointing an envoy. After he selected Carl Bildt, a former senior official in the Bosnia peace deal, and Eduard Kukan, the Foreign Minister of Slovakia, Ms. Albright convinced the Secretary General to limit their role to carrying out a peace settlement after a deal was done.
She distrusted the United Nations because she felt that in the past, its negotiators had been played for fools by Mr. Milosevic. She feared that such envoys would complicate and possibly derail the work of Mr. Chernomyrdin and Mr. Ahtisaari.
Also in early May, Germany's cultivation of the Russians paid off. At a Bonn meeting of the Group of Seven industrial nations plus Russia, the first joint statement about ending the conflict in Kosovo was issued. It was extremely vague on all the most contentious issues, particularly NATO command of a peacekeeping force, but its political message was clear: The Americans, the Europeans and the Russians were trying to work together. In this sense, it amounted to a breakthrough.
 
The Agreement
Marathon Sessions Across the Continent
To hammer out the wording of the peace agreement, Mr. Talbott, the State Department's senior expert on Russia, met with Mr. Chernomyrdin and Mr. Ahtisaari four times in marathon negotiating sessions. In these and other meetings, whenever Mr. Chernomyrdin persuaded Mr. Talbott to change the wording of the peace deal, he would ask, in Russian: "What about Mother Boss? Will she be O.K. with this?" (He was referring to Ms. Albright, who said Mr. Chernomyrdin never called her "Mother Boss" to her face, but only in reference to her when he was negotiating with Mr. Talbott.)
The first marathon session was at the official residence of the Finnish President in Helsinki. Two sessions were held on the grounds of Stalin's dacha outside of Moscow, and the final one took place over the first two days of June near Bonn, at the Petersberg, a palatial former government guest house.
This meeting was the longest and most fraught. Working out a two-page, take-it-or-leave-it peace plan took until 4 A.M. on Tuesday and much of Wednesday, until the hour the negotiating duo was scheduled to leave for Belgrade. The trickiest part was persuading Mr. Chernomyrdin to accept the NATO conditions -- referred to by Mr. Talbott as the "family jewels" -- in front of Mr. Milosevic.
It helped that Mr. Chernomyrdin was heading off for his fifth trip to see Mr. Milosevic, and he did not want to leave Belgrade with only "jaw jaw" as the result, an American official said.
After a dinner with Mr. Chernomyrdin, Mr. Ahtisaari and their host, the German Chancellor, Mr. Talbott slipped away to talk to Mr. Berger and Ms. Albright. He then proposed a footnote to the document that was being prepared for Mr. Milosevic.
The footnote spelled out demands that the Russians had been resisting for weeks: NATO command and control of the peacekeeping force with control of the operation in the hands of the North Atlantic Council, the chief decision-making body of the alliance.
The footnote allowed NATO to make its demands without Russia's having to formally endorse them, an American official said.
Mr. Chernomyrdin pledged not to argue when the document was presented.
Just as important, the Russian envoy promised to remain silent when the Finnish President told Mr. Milosevic that if he did not accept the conditions, the demands would only get more stringent as the war wound on, an Administration official said.
 
In Belgrade
An Edgy Final Round With Milosevic
When the negotiators met with Mr. Milosevic in Belgrade on Wednesday night and Thursday morning, they found him "serious and calm," according to an American official. "He did not seem under excessive stress, as Chernomyrdin had reported from his previous visit," the official added.
Mr. Milosevic was respectful, correcting one of his colleagues when he failed to address Mr. Ahtisaari as President Ahtisaari.
The two visitors immediately set the ground rules. They were mediators, not negotiators. They explained the document. As they had expected, Mr. Milosevic asked if there could be revisions.
He was told, flatly, no.
In the first sign of acquiescence, Mr. Milosevic told them he would send the document to his Parliament for approval. In an odd effort to create more cover for himself, Mr. Milosevic invited Mr. Ahtisaari to address the Parliament; Mr. Ahtisaari declined.
At the end of the first evening session, Mr. Milosevic offered a meal, but the visitors said no thanks and went off to consult their delegations.
The next morning, Mr. Milosevic appeared to be more agitated and his military chiefs looked fairly distraught, Mr. Ahtisaari later reported. But when Mr. Ahtisaari put his blunt question -- What next? -- the Serb replied, "We accept your terms."
After this capitulation, to seal the deal the Yugoslavs were given the telephone number of Gen. Wesley K. Clark, the NATO commander, along with several other numbers at NATO. They were told that they should call one of the numbers to begin the military negotiations. No mention was made at the meetings of Mr. Milosevic's indictment on charges of war crimes.
The negotiators then flew to Cologne, Germany, on Thursday to brief Mr. Talbott and the heads of the European Union who were meeting there. Later that day, Mr. Talbott went to the North Atlantic Council in Brussels to brief the 19 NATO delegates. The meeting started at 8:30 P.M., and General Clark was late. When the general walked into the room about 30 minutes later, he announced he had just received a call from the Yugoslav military.
The Yugoslavs, according to General Clark, suggested that they have their first meeting on Sunday to work out precise details of the Serbian withdrawal. The general reminded them that the bombing would continue until there was a verifiable withdrawal of their troops. "How's Saturday morning?" the Yugoslavs replied.
"There was a plan, a strategy, a concept with regard to the Russians," Mr. Talbott said on Friday. "What happened this week has played out impeccably."
 
The Serbs
A Leader Patches His Political Fences
Waiting in Belgrade, Mr. Milosevic was eager to make a deal. Weeks before he had started to prepare the public for a political solution as early as the first week of May. That it took another month may have been due less to his unwillingness to make a deal than to the West's slowness to grasp that he was serious.
The signs were everywhere. The visit of Mr. Jackson, during which Belgrade handed over the three American soldiers, was shown endlessly on Belgrade Television, complete with praise for his calls for peace and for an end to the bombing.
All of Mr. Chernomyrdin's visits were given broad coverage, as the state-controlled press abruptly shifted from obsessive coverage of NATO bomb damage to an emphasis on diplomatic progress.
The two top generals in charge of the operation in Kosovo came to Belgrade to report to Mr. Milosevic that their work was done. The Kosovo Liberation Army, they said, had been routed, and the sovereignty of Kosovo was assured.
The propaganda machine that had aroused public opinion for war in Kosovo began heralding the end of the military campaign and preparing Serbs for a peace deal.
Mr. Milosevic reportedly prepared a major announcement of a troop withdrawal on May 9, a day when Mr. Chernomyrdin was due to visit Belgrade.
But the Russian envoy did not come, and the announcement the next day was played down, while being dismissed in the West. When Mr. Chernomyrdin delayed his trip for a whole week, he was criticized sharply in the official newspaper, Politika, a sign of Mr. Milosevic's displeasure.
At the same time, there were signals in May that the Serbian people, who had rallied around Mr. Milosevic in March, were fed up with the war and growing angry. Demonstrations in the southern towns of Krusevac, Aleksandrovac and Raska began after the delivery on May 14 of 10 bodies of soldiers killed in Kosovo.
At the funerals, crowds gathered and protests erupted at the bus stations as more reservists were due to leave for Kosovo.
Only women protested at first, defying the ban on demonstrations during the state of war declared shortly after the NATO bombing began. They were careful in their demands. Not wanting to appear unpatriotic, they asked for their sons and husbands to be granted leave, or at least be allowed to serve in shifts.
Since the Government had announced a withdrawal from Kosovo, they asked that their men be allowed home first. Some said they did not want their men to die in a war they no longer supported.
The authorities tried to order the women home. When that did not work, the top general, Col. Gen. Nebojsa Pavkovic, traveled to meet with the women personally. He also allowed many of their men to go home.
A few days later as the demonstrations continued and even spread, General Pavkovic went to Raska to meet with soldiers and their families again. After still more demonstrations, the authorities moved in and made arrests. The Government, though, seemed shaken by the protests.
For many in the cities, the loss of water and electricity brought home how miserable life was going to be if the war carried on. Ordinary Serbs began to think that civilian deaths did not mean very much to NATO. They said, too, that NATO did not make mistakes and that it hit hospitals in Belgrade and Nis on purpose.
"For me it doesn't matter how they end it," said Momir Karadarevic, 72, who was busy retrieving wooden beams and window support from the rubble of his home in Valjevo. "If you ask me, this shouldn't have started in the first place."
In the end, Mr. Milosevic appears to have decided that months of bombing were more likely than ground troops and that there was little to be gained from enduring it. Experts on Belgrade and diplomats believe that Mr. Milosevic calculated that peace was better suited to his personal survival than war.
Before the bombing had even started, there were whispers in Belgrade that Kosovo would be lost after a war that cost the Serbs dearly. It had happened twice before, in the former Yugoslav republics of Croatia and Bosnia, when Mr. Milosevic abandoned the Serbs there.
In an uncanny bit of prophecy before NATO's bombing campaign began, a Belgrade journalist, Bratislav Grubacic of the VIP news agency, described Mr. Milosevic as a realist who knew that it would be better for the people of Serbia to cut a deal in Kosovo before bombs fall.
"But it is not his way," Mr. Grubacic said. "Milosevic's way is to stretch it out, make it as messy and nasty as possible, and then still lose it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: AN AGREEMENT, JUNE 3 -- President Martti Ahtisaari of Finland, left, with Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia at his side, reviewing acceptance of NATO terms with President Milosevic, right. Most crucially, Mr. Milosevic accepted a peacekeeping force in Kosovo. (Associated Press); AN ULTIMATUM, MARCH 22 -- In a last attempt at a diplomats' peace in Kosovo, Richard C. Holbrooke, the United States special envoy, met with Slobodan Milosevic in Belgrade. Mr. Milosevic did not yield, and NATO air strikes on Yugoslavia began two days later. (Reuters)(pg. 17) THE REFUGEES, APRIL 1 -- As thousands poured out of Kosovo, both the resources and the humanitarian impulses of neighboring nations were tested. In Macedonia, a woman pleaded with Macedonian authorities to be allowed in after Macedonia closed the border. (Reuters); CIVILIAN DEATHS, APRIL 12 -- Among those who became the unintended victims of the air campaign were riders on a train crossing over a gorge about 190 miles south of Belgrade when NATO planes bombed the bridge. Ten were reported killed. (Associated Press)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (94%); FINLAND (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIA; FINLAND; SERBIA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (94%); FINLAND (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); ARMIES (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); BOMBINGS (70%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); AHTISAARI, MARTII (PRES); HARDEN, BLAINE BILL CLINTON (58%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



141 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 3389 words

HEADLINE: STRINGS ATTACHED -- A special report.;
For Subjects in Haiti Study, Free AIDS Care Has a Price

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
The impoverished patients who step from the dirt sidewalk into the modern AIDS research clinic run by Cornell Medical College in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, are offered a seemingly simple arrangement.
"We would like to test your blood because you live in an area where AIDS may be common," the English version of the clinic's consent form reads. "We will provide you with medicine if you fall sick and cannot afford such care."
But the transaction is not as straightforward as it sounds. Many Haitians who visit the clinic are at once patients and subjects of United States-financed medical research, and circumstances that are bad for their health are sometimes best for research results.
That conflict is especially true in Cornell's most tantalizing research in Haiti, a study of sex partners, only one of whom is infected with the AIDS virus. Researchers, seeking clues to developing a vaccine, study the blood of both partners, particularly the uninfected ones who continue to be exposed to the virus through unprotected sex. They are trying to find out whether some people have natural protections against infection with the AIDS virus that could be replicated in a vaccine.
The Haitians are ideal research subjects, largely because they are not receiving the kind of care now standard in the world's developed countries. Condom use is low in Haiti, for cultural and other reasons. Anti-retroviral drugs that are successful at suppressing the virus are unavailable except to the very wealthy, and are not included in Cornell's promise to provide medicine.
Nearly 20 years after Cornell opened the clinic, it provides some of the best AIDS treatment available in a country devastated by the epidemic, fighting the myriad illnesses that result from AIDS. But that is a lower standard of care than patients receive routinely at American institutions, including the hospital affiliated with Cornell in New York City.
If the research were done in the United States, experts agree, the physicians would be obligated to prescribe the anti-retrovirals and deliver the most effective possible counseling against unprotected sex.
The ethical questions posed by Cornell's work among Haiti's poor are at the heart of a global debate about AIDS research that is roiling international health organizations from Geneva to Thailand, challenging ethics formulations established decades ago.
"It's really like a Faustian bargain," said Marc Fleisher, a member of the committee at Cornell that reviews research on humans. "It's like, since we're making this a better place, we're going to exploit it in a way we could never get away with in the United States," said Mr. Fleisher, the outside member on a board made up mostly of university employees who are doctors.
Cornell doctors defended the couples study as vitally important and stressed that its subjects receive the same counseling about the dangers of AIDS and the same care as other patients at the Haitian clinic.
United States standards for research on humans were strongly influenced by outrage over the Tuskegee syphilis study earlier this century, which misled impoverished black subjects for years while tracking their disease, and withheld treatment even after penicillin was discovered.
Today's subjects are not to be pressured to participate in research, according to Federal regulations. They are to be fully informed about the research's purposes and risks. They must receive the best available therapy for their illnesses and be told about any findings relevant to their health.
In theory, the same rules apply to federally financed studies overseas. But an examination of 15 years of records related to the Haiti couples research shows that it has received scant scrutiny from Government officials in Washington.
And the Government's rules barely address the moral ambiguities of AIDS research in indigent countries.
Should participants receive the best treatment available in the United States or in Haiti, one of the poorest countries on earth? How forcefully should researchers who are documenting the progress of the AIDS virus warn subjects about the dangers of rejecting condoms?
Dr. Warren D. Johnson, the chief of international medicine and infectious diseases at Cornell, called the couples study "a very high priority," though he said it had been temporarily suspended while the university concentrated on other research in Haiti. "This is the critical group in the world -- couples -- that's where the war is to be fought," he said.
At least 97 couples have been enrolled in the blood study since 1991, records show, but Dr. Johnson said only 30 couples are still being followed. The study will be expanded to new couples early next year, he said, and coordinated with AIDS vaccine trials, which are expected to start in Haiti this fall using similar couples as subjects.
Cornell's clinic in Haiti offers strong inducements to subjects. It is the only center in the country providing free screening and treatment for H.I.V., venereal disease and tuberculosis, a common complication of AIDS. The thousands who flock to it are too poor to buy food, let alone the simple medicines and vitamins that serve as "a powerful incentive for study participation," in the words of one Cornell grant report.
The head of the clinic, Dr. Jean William Pape, is a Haiti native and Cornell professor who has studied AIDS in Haiti for two decades. Dr. Pape, who trained at Cornell, defended the treatment of research subjects in the couples study, saying they benefited from the same counseling and free condoms available to everyone who visits the clinic.
Dr. Pape said that offering the life-saving drugs to the handful of research subjects would be an unethical lure to participate. Treating all H.I.V.-infected citizens, he said, would cost 10 times Haiti's health budget.
If the research on couples succeeds, he said, it could help lead to a vaccine against AIDS. "You have to take into account people who mean well for their country and not impose on them things that you feel are good for Western ideas," he said.
 
The Research
Tracking the Path Of an Epidemic
Cornell's presence in Haiti dates from 1979, when Dr. Pape returned to his native land and took a job at a pediatric hospital where 40 percent of the babies were dying of endemic diarrhea.
"A man would come to pick up the bodies three times a day, with a big bag," he recalled, bending his tall frame in a scooping gesture. "The noise of the skulls in that bag was unbearable."
Using the latest treatment, oral rehydration, Dr. Pape cut the death rate to 1 percent. But the next year his Haitian colleagues asked him to help fight an enemy that would prove far more formidable.
Adults were mysteriously falling ill with persistent diarrhea, harbinger of a new, deadly disease. Suddenly, Dr. Pape and Cornell found themselves on the front lines in the fight against a global epidemic: acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, or AIDS.
Dr. Pape had the credentials to lead the effort. Part of an elite Haitian family long prominent in medicine, he had received an undergraduate degree from Columbia University and a medical education from Cornell. Supervised by Dr. Johnson, his Cornell mentor, Dr. Pape set up a local group to study the new disease and soon won Federal financing. In 1985, Cornell was awarded a major Federal grant to conduct a study, "The Natural History of H.I.V. Infection in Haiti." A succession of these five-year grants eventually brought Cornell more than $7 million in research money and hundreds of thousands more in related training grants.
The studies produced some important early findings. Researchers dispelled an early theory that Haitians were unusually vulnerable to the disease. They also helped show that AIDS could be transmitted through heterosexual contact.
AIDS testing at the research clinic followed the United States model of the mid-1980's. Haitian patients with the virus, mostly heterosexual men, were offered condoms and counseling. It was left up to patients to inform their sexual partners, and at least 60 percent never did so, researchers said.
The hope was to get Haitians to practice protected sex, but by the early 1990's it appeared this approach was not working. Dr. Pape said the data persuaded him that only a vaccine could stem Haiti's epidemic, then speeding from high-risk men to women whose only risk was an unfaithful partner.
Looking closer at several hundred couples in which only one partner was infected, he found that AIDS was transmitted annually in about 7 percent of the couples having unprotected sex. That was about twice the rate of similar couples in the United States and Europe, but even so, it suggested an unexplained resistance to infection.
The Haitians were valuable for another reason. Unlike AIDS patients in the United States and Europe, they were not receiving the anti-retroviral drugs that proved effective in halting the disease's progress.
The lack of those drugs "may allow identification of novel findings not easily studied in the U.S.A.," Dr. John L. Ho, a Cornell immunologist, wrote in an application for Federal funds. In 1995, the Federal Government awarded Cornell an extra $60,000 to expand this part of the Haitian couples study.
Grant records show that by 1996, 5 of the 31 previously uninfected partners studied most closely by Cornell tested positive for the AIDS virus. But Cornell's blood tests found something to ponder: In two of the cases there was a substantial delay between transmission of the virus and actual infection -- 11 and 49 months. And among those who still tested negative, it seemed in several cases that a version of infection had occurred but that the virus had disappeared again, at least temporarily.
Cornell researchers called these results, similar to findings by scientists elsewhere, "tantalizing" and "intriguing." They hypothesized that certain levels of sexual exposure to H.I.V. might be triggering an infection that blocked transmission, aborted infection or at least weakened the effects of disease -- all clues to vaccine development.
Research plans approved last year include further study of 19 high-risk Haitian partners who still test negative for H.I.V. but show intermittent signs of the virus in their blood samples. Cornell researchers estimated that over five years, at least 36 partners would contract the virus. One report to the National Institutes of Health anticipated that 15 to 20 H.I.V.-infected women from the study would become pregnant each year. Those children, Cornell officials wrote, could be subjects for another study examining the high mortality rate of H.I.V.-infected infants.
 
The Subjects
Offering Counseling Of Its Own Design
Outside the gates of the research clinic at 33 Truman Boulevard, the dirt sidewalk is crammed with people by midmorning. Charcoal smoke, flies and sewage stench mix with cooking smells as vendors sell beans by the scoop to waiting patients.
Thousands of men and women have made their way to the clinic over the years, many desperate for relief from sickness, others sent by lovers to be tested for venereal disease and the AIDS virus.
All are potential research subjects. But the most interesting to science are patients like the couple identified in clinic records as No. 1986, a man with AIDS, and No. 1986C, his uninfected, pregnant wife.
Ethical standards for Federally financed studies require that patients be told why researchers want to study them. But the written consent form approved at Cornell and read aloud in Creole to each potential subject does not mention that the study focuses on couples in which one sexual partner has tested positive for H.I.V.
The form tells subjects their blood is being tested because "you live in an area where AIDS may be common." It promises all patients that H.I.V. test results will be kept confidential.
Dr. Pape said that in the case of the couples study, the clinic makes a practice of disclosing results of AIDS tests to the uninfected partners. He said they are informed orally by a doctor at the clinic that their spouse or lover has H.I.V.
Research subjects, Dr. Pape said, are given the same counseling about the dangers of AIDS as other patients. The clinic offers free condoms, and videos about protected sex are shown in the crowded waiting room.
Those who contracted the virus while being studied by Cornell "have no one to blame but themselves, because they were provided with everything," he said.
Researchers in Europe, the United States and Africa said consent forms and research outlines in comparable studies typically spell out detailed procedures for informing partners and dealing with the clashes that might arise. A joint consent form used as early as 1988 in Zambia, for example, specifies: "One of you is infected with the virus and the other is not," adding, "It is possible that during the study, the partner who was uninfected will become infected with the AIDS virus. This is distressing and can cause depression, anger and marital problems."
A review of Cornell's materials found no written procedures for disclosing a partner's infection, or for forcefully counseling partners as a couple about the dangers of their situation. Dr. Pape said study subjects choose to reject condoms even though they are fully informed of the risks. To demonstrate, he provided a one-page questionnaire dated Dec. 3, 1992. It belonged to patient No. 1986C, then three months pregnant.
"Are you still sexually active with your partner?" it begins. The only record of the woman's replies are a clinic worker's check marks and scribbled notations. Yes, said the woman, she planned to continue having sex with her husband. No, they were not using condoms. No, she did not want a free supply. The reason was scrawled in English: "He does not like it and she's afraid of condom."
The document, administered at three-month intervals to subjects gathered from their shantytowns by social workers paid by the United States, did not contain the word AIDS or H.I.V. It asked, "When have you been aware of the infection of your sex partner?" The answering notation: "At entry into the study."
After reviewing clinic materials, Marie Saint Cyr, a native of Haiti who now directs an AIDS program for women in Harlem, said there was a "clear conflict of interest" between the desire to collect information from research subjects and the obligation to effectively warn patients at risk.
"If you know somebody is positive and is having sex with a partner who is negative, you have a life and death situation in front of you," she said. "You have to do individualized counseling to really tap into what those people value in life, to confront them with the reality of H.I.V. and AIDS. This in no way addresses those serious things."
 
The World Debate
Balancing Sickness And Science
When Cornell researchers came to Haiti to collect blood, they stayed high above the swarming slums of Port-au-Prince, at a colonial, gingerbread-style hotel called the Kinam, where purple bougainvillea spills over a sunlit swimming pool.
At a conference at the hotel in April 1998, the president of the National AIDS Council of France challenged Dr. Pape to rethink the way the disease is treated in Haiti, particularly in patients who are research subjects.
The French official, Dr. Alain Sobel, said the French Government could provide anti-retroviral drugs to Haiti, as it does already for nearby French islands like Martinique and Guadeloupe.
Dr. Pape, according to both men, replied that the multiple drug cocktail that had been so effective in treating the disease in developed countries could not be feasibly used in Haiti. The country's health care system, he insisted, was not organized enough to properly distribute the drugs or make sure that patients too poor to eat regularly take a pill before or after certain meals, as the demanding regimen requires.
Dr. Sobel did not disagree. But he argued that Dr. Pape's clinic, with thousands of patients enrolled in various long-term studies, was the obvious place to make a start.
"They are really the only institution that can do this in Haiti," Dr. Sobel said later in a telephone interview from Paris. He said that since Cornell's patients are participating in research, "they deserve to be treated."
Dr. Pape disagreed. Asked about this argument in an interview, he said offering such treatment to clinic patients would be "an inducement to become infected." He questioned how long a foreign government's commitment to provide such expensive drugs -- about $15,000 yearly per person -- would endure in an economic or political downturn.
The clash between Dr. Pape and Dr. Sobel reflects a larger international debate over clinical trials in third world nations, which has intensified in the era of AIDS.
In 1997, The New England Journal of Medicine sharply criticized research in Thailand and Africa that gave placebos to pregnant women infected with H.I.V. as part of a search for a cheaper way to stop transmission of the virus to newborns.
The placebo trials were halted in February 1998, when one of the studies in Thailand showed that transmission could be prevented with a short course of the drug AZT costing as little as $50.
The finding came at a price. Pregnant women pass on AIDS to their children in about 35 percent of cases, and in the studies, half the women were given dummy pills, the others given much less AZT than in the proven regimen used in the developed world.
Dr. Marcia Angell, the editor of The New England Journal, had likened the trials to the Tuskegee study of syphilis, in which public health officials withheld effective treatment from a cadre of black men for 40 years.
Many research scientists defended the placebo trials as a shortcut to giving poor nations a new weapon against AIDS.
More recently, world health officials have clashed over how to test AIDS vaccines whose effectiveness is best assessed with subjects exposed to the disease and not treated with anti-retrovirals because of poverty.
"If in Malawi, why not Appalachia?" asked Dr. David Rothman, a professor of social medicine at the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons. "You have serious investigators trying to do good, trying to save hundreds of thousands of lives, but I consider it ultimately destructive of the investigator's integrity and the well-being of all of us to have an ethic of human experimentation that changes as it travels."
Dr. Pape said decisions about treating third world patients can be unusually complicated. For example, he was critical of a proposal by a United Nations group to give pregnant women at the Haitian State Hospital AZT last year.
That proposal, he said, did not address the problem of H.I.V. transmission through breast-feeding. The danger, he said, is that infected Haitian women who are told of the risks to their children will not nurse their infants. In a country where safe formula is a relative rarity, he said, this could put children at an even greater risk of death.
"The ethical issues sometimes are torturing me," he said.
Dr. Sobel attributed Dr. Pape's lack of enthusiasm for anti-retrovirals at least in part to his commitment to developing an H.I.V. vaccine. In 1998, Dr. Pape became the principal investigator in a $619,000 Federal contract to prepare for preliminary vaccine trials in Haiti as early as this year.
"I told him this was completely utopic, since the vaccine is not ready and will not be ready for many years," Dr. Sobel said.
The experimental vaccines, which have been developed elsewhere, are at best only partially protective, many scientists say. Even so, Dr. Pape said he considers it crucial for Haitians to be among the first in line to test them to establish Haiti's moral claim to an affordable supply of an effective vaccine when -- or if -- one is developed.
Dr. Frantz Large, the vice president of the Haitian Medical Association, which is collaborating on the plans for vaccine trials, called Dr. Pape a great patriot.
"He would never do anything unethical," Dr. Large said. "But if he had to choose between the survival of 10 people and the survival of a nation, he would probably choose the survival of a nation, and I would, too."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: RESERVATIONS -- Marie Saint Cyr, who runs an AIDS clinic in Harlem, sees a conflict of interest in the Haitian research. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); THE CLINIC Cornell's research center in Port-au-Prince is Haiti's only provider of free screening and treatment for H.I.V. (Carole Devillers for The New York Times); IN DEFENSE -- Dr. Jean William Pape says that research subjects are treated the same as any AIDS patients at the clinic. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORT-AU-PRINCE (HAITI); HAITI; HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (51%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; RESEARCH; VACCINATION AND IMMUNIZATION; SEX; FOREIGN AID; ETHICS AIDS & HIV (97%); VACCINES (91%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); VIRUSES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); ETHICS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (78%); VIROLOGY (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



142 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Tax Breaks of $25 Million for Media Conglomerate

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The Giuliani administration has struck a tentative deal to give Bertelsmann A.G. a $25 million package of tax breaks and other subsidies for a new office tower at Broadway and 55th Street to house the company's Random House publishing division, city officials and company executives say.
Although city officials say Bertelsmann did not threaten to leave New York this time around, it did in 1992, when David N. Dinkins, then the Mayor, gave the company an $11 million tax break to move to its headquarters at 1540 Broadway in Times Square. Bertelsmann is now promising to build a 30-story tower and add jobs. 
 Tax incentives or subsidies have become so common under the city's so-called job retention program that some of the city's largest corporations no longer bother to threaten to pull out of Manhattan before seeking a reduction in sales taxes as well as low-cost electricity from the State Power Authority. Critics say the special benefits have little bearing on corporate decision making but deprive the city of tax revenue.
"It's a form of blackmail by the companies and a clear case of corporate welfare by the politicians," said Brian Backstrom, vice president of Change-NY, a conservative antitax group. "The state and the city could stop giving tax breaks and companies would still want to and need to be located in New York City."
The Giuliani administration has granted more than $2 billion in tax breaks and other subsidies in the last five years to more than four dozen of the city's blue-chip corporations.
Bertelsmann, a German media conglomerate, has about 1,500 employees in Manhattan, although people in the publishing industry say they expect the company to lay off workers as it merges Random House and the Bantam Doubleday Dell publishing group.
Deputy Mayor Randy Levine denied last week that the tax deals amounted to a form of corporate welfare. He said the incentives were intended to encourage new construction and job growth in the city. The project would also provide hundreds of construction jobs, Mr. Levine added. Bertelsmann would receive only some of the benefits if its work force failed to grow.
"This strategy of creating jobs with incentives is working," Mr. Levine said. "If you're going to build a new tower, we look very favorably on that."
But the Citizens Budget Commission, the Regional Plan Association, the Fiscal Policy Institute and other civic groups contend that companies will grow or shrink regardless of special tax breaks. The subsidies shift the tax burden to small and medium-sized companies that do not have the political clout to get the special deals, critics say.
In any event, corporate tax deals have become so prevalent, critics and real estate executives say, that companies like CBS are demanding tax breaks simply because their competitors got them.
Once a critic of special tax breaks, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has been cutting deals at a steady clip since 1994.
As with Bertelsmann, the Giuliani administration is providing some corporations with second rounds of tax breaks. In 1997, Bear Stearns Companies got a $75 million incentive package for a new office tower under the city's corporate retention program. Presumably, some of those jobs were saved in 1991, when Mr. Dinkins gave the investment bank a $40 million tax break after the company threatened to move to New Jersey.
More recently, Mr. Giuliani gave CBS a $10 million tax break after the company threatened to move some operations to New Jersey. Six years earlier, CBS received a $40 million tax break to upgrade its studios, a $300 million project it began only in 1997.
Both Reuters and Conde Nast Publications got tax breaks to move to new Times Square office towers that already had an extraordinary level of subsidies. The city is now negotiating with Ernst & Young, which has demanded a $67 million incentive package for a third subsidized tower in Times Square.
"It's the gift that keeps on giving," said one executive who negotiates tax breaks on behalf of corporate clients.
In 1992, in the midst of a devastating recession that left many office buildings vacant, the city gave Bertelsmann an $11 million tax break for its new headquarters at 1540 Broadway after the company threatened to move 500 jobs to the Midwest. Bertelsmann had bought the empty 1 million-square-foot tower for the bargain-basement price of $119 million, or 53 percent of what it cost to build.
Bertelsmann is now negotiating for a larger tax break for a smaller deal while the city's economy is surging.
Last year, Bertelsmann sought to build a new home for Random House next door to its headquarters in Times Square as part of an effort to raise the company's profile in the United States. But when that deal fell through in November, the company opened negotiations with the Related Companies, which had a development site at the northwest corner of Broadway and 55th Street. Under the terms of the deal, which may be announced as early as this week, Bertelsmann would buy a 650,000-square-foot condominium in the planned 850,000-square-foot tower. There would be stores on the ground floor and condominiums at the top of the building, according to real estate executives involved in the project.
Bertelsmann is expected to sign its deal with the city tomorrow.
"This is about enhancing our commitment to midtown and New York City," said Stuart Applebaum, a senior vice president at Random House.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the corner of Broadway and 55th Street, a site for a new office tower where Bertelsmann plans to put its Random House publishing division. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BERTELSMANN AG; RANDOM HOUSE BERTELSMANN AG (94%); BANTAM DELL PUBLISHING GROUP (81%); RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BERTELSMANN AG; RANDOM HOUSE

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; PROPERTY TAXES; TAXATION; TAX EXEMPTIONS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); SALES TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); LABOR FORCE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); POLITICS (71%); CONSERVATISM (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BAGLI, CHARLES V RUDOLPH W GIULIANI (81%); RANDY LEVINE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



143 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 122; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4752 words

HEADLINE: Journey to the Center of My Mind

BYLINE: By Stephen S. Hall; Stephen S. Hall is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
At a few minutes after 4 on a Sunday afternoon in January, when most of New York was tuning in to the playoff game between the Jets and the Broncos, I had something else on my mind. More precisely, I had something around my mind, namely the 1.5-ton magnet of the magnetic resonance imaging (M.R.I.) machine at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. I wasn't there for medical reasons; I was there to embark on an adventure. My journey would take me no farther than this laboratory on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, and yet I was going somewhere very few people have been.
Of all the frontiers that await exploration, perhaps no other is more intriguing than the terra incognita that lies between our ears. There, in a three-pound pudding of neurons and wiring, lie the keys to the kingdoms of memory, of thought, of desire, of fear, of the habits and skills that add up to who we each are. It is an especially daunting frontier because even after you have entered the realm of the brain, it's still necessary to locate a second, far more elusive boundary that separates the mere hardware of neurology from that elusive quality known as the mind, the "I" that hovers in the background of all conscious mental activity. I had hopes of getting a glimpse of that I -- my mind -- in the course of my travels. 
 My Virgil on this journey through the dark wood of cognition was Joy Hirsch, a voluble, cheerful scientist with dark bangs over her forehead and inch-long nails. Hirsch directs the Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Laboratory at Sloan-Kettering and is a professor of neuroscience at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University. I'd become interested in her work several years ago when her group published a paper in Nature suggesting that you could tell whether a person learned a foreign language early or late in life by pinpointing the exact location of the speech center in the brain. When I proposed taking a tour of my own brain, Joy saw it as an opportunity to extend her research into some new areas.
The premise was simple. I would undergo a series of brain-imaging sessions using the technology of functional M.R.I. -- like diagnostic M.R.I., except that it also measures brain activity. These scans would, for the most part, be customized, almost autobiographical studies that would probe thoughts and emotions related to my personal history and work as a writer and editor. My journey, I understood, would be unscientific -- no study of one individual holds statistical significance. But even as a neural picaresque, it wasn't without value. We designed exercises with reasonable experimental controls and, whenever possible, in ways that might complement published studies. We set out to investigate, among other things, the use of figurative language, the neural residue of emotional memories, the seat of humor, the source of sentence composition and even the cognitive headwaters of storytelling.
Before setting out, I consulted several prominent brain scientists; Steven Pinker, the cognitive scientist at M.I.T., provided the most sage advice about the proper frame of mind for doing experiments in an M.R.I. machine. "Focus is essential," he said. "You almost have to be a Zen master." Easier said than done.
 
THE LAY OF THE LAND
For the first session, Joy Hirsch set up 14 scans, designed to sketch out a rough map of the auditory, visual, touch, motor and language systems of my brain. "This is like a tour of the building before we start to talk to the individual departments," Joy said. This kind of mapping was pioneered by Hirsch's team at Sloan-Kettering to provide a guide for neurosurgeons so that they can avoid speech, hearing and other critical centers when removing brain tumors. (One condition for my participation was that patient scans always took precedence.)
As I lay flat on my back, about to enter the narrow bore of the scanner for the first time, Joy and a technician, Greg Nyman, sandwiched my head between cushions, placed a piece of tape across my forehead and slipped a plastic cowl over my head. "We're going to put you in," Joy announced as I felt myself slide about four feet into an aperture 23 inches wide and only 17 inches high. Staring up at a mirror above my head, I could look out of the tube, where the vista included two familiar shoes forming a nervous V in the air. Each "run," Joy explained, would last 144 seconds; the machine divided my brain into about 185,000 units, or voxels, and measured the activity in each every four seconds. The huge, room-size magnet allows the machine to detect subtle changes in blood flow in each voxel, changes that are believed to reflect levels of brain activity.
Science is never quite as seamless as it appears in the pages of journals. The first few runs went fine -- a flashing checkerboard pattern excited my visual cortex, as planned, and Joy rubbed an ordinary five-and-dime pot-scrubber over my right hand, to stimulate the tactile (or somatosensory) part of my brain. I had great difficulty seeing and hearing, however. I couldn't wear my glasses inside the machine -- the powerful magnetic field would turn them into a ballistic missile. The prescription goggles on hand in the lab provided just enough visual acuity to turn an exercise where I named objects into a McGoo-ish misadventure. I mistook a tennis racket for a globe and a canoe for a comb. Later, straining to hear words through earphones, I could make out only a couple over the din of the machine, which sounds like the loudest, most emphatic busy signal imaginable. Again, I resorted to pure conjecture. At this rate, I began to fear we were using our precious M.R.I. time to pinpoint nothing more than the neural headquarters for Guesswork.
Finally, we made our first tentative sortie into the land of cognition. Joy knew I spoke Italian, and I was curious to see where the "Italian speech module" was located in my brain. I had learned the language in my mid-20's while living in Rome, but I thought there might be a chance I'd picked up a smattering of Italian as a child, since my maternal grandparents spoke it almost exclusively. It turns out that all languages learned early in life cohabit the same neural real estate, whereas a foreign language learned as an adult usually occupies a distinctly separate region. Would the conversations in Italian I had overheard as a child have left a neural residue?
To find out, Joy asked me to perform a task that formed the basis of the group's 1997 Nature paper. I had 10 seconds to tell a little story in my head in response to a series of visual prompts -- a picture showing either sunrise, noon or night. During the first run, I would think up a scenario in English; the second time, in Italian. The morning scene, for example, elicited the following: "I woke up around 8 o'clock, had a bite to eat, put on my coat and walked to the subway, which I took to work." All I can say in my literary defense is, you try being clever with a deadline of 10 seconds and 110-decibel honks in your ears about five times a second.
Lying stock still in a horizontal phone booth might not sound like much of a physical adventure, but after 50 minutes I felt exhausted by the effort of inactivity. You're supposed to keep your head as steady as a statue, and just as empty. But any active, imaginative intelligence is apt to daydream, worry, have idle thoughts -- all forms of mental static. Thoughts kept crashing through the artificial quietude of my empty head: "What's the Italian word for joke?" "Wonder how the Jets are doing?" "Man, is my mouth dry!" Theoretically, each of those errant thoughts has its latitude and longitude, its little magnetic wrinkle destined, perhaps, to show up in the raw data and fog this high-tech mirror in which I hoped to see something of myself.
 
ALL ROADS LEAD TO . . . BROCA'S AREA
When I met with Joy to go over the results from the first session, we sat at a round table in her office, with 21 cross-sectional slices of my brain up on the light box, a brain atlas open on the table and small printouts of each cross-section in front of her, marked by yellow Post-it arrows pointing to the predominant landmarks of my neural anatomy. She had carefully compared the lay of my brain to a standard atlas and, slice by slice, walked me through the basic landscape. "I love looking at brains," she confided at one point. "They're very beautiful, very intimate." Everything looked normal. "This is a beautiful, textbook brain," she said with obvious enthusiasm. But I almost didn't hear her. I was mesmerized by the beauty of this hidden landscape.
Now that I was on a guided tour of my own brain, I began to appreciate just how precise the convoluted geography of the brain actually is. Like a lot of laypeople, I thought the whorls and folds on the surface layer of the brain, known as the cortex, varied by individual like so many fingerprints. In fact, the patterns are basically the same in everyone. As I could see in Joy's atlas, each bulge (or gyrus) and each crevice (or sulcus) is as precisely plotted as any topographic map. All the cognitive action happens in those whorls; everything else is scaffolding, underground cable, antique structures handed down by evolution from reptile and early mammalian brains.
The first departments we checked were the somatosensory and motor regions. The touch of the pot-scrubber caused a small section of the post-central gyrus on the left side to light up, as expected, while the finger-tapping exercise caused a herd of neurons just across the deep neural ravine from the tactile center to become active.
"This is very typical," Joy said. "In fact, it's particularly nice. Some brains have a little bit less specific activity. One of the nice things about the activity patterns in your brain is that they are very localized. Your brain just goes and gets the job done. It doesn't waste a lot of energy going other places."
I'd been concerned about my inability to see and hear stimuli during the first session, but those difficulties actually made the results more interesting. When I was straining to make out images during the object-naming task, my visual cortex looked like the wall of napalm scene in "Apocalypse Now." "I'll tell you, this little brain was working mighty hard to get that information," Joy said with a laugh. The same evidence of effort showed up in the auditory map -- the place in the midbrain that "listens," called the transverse temporal gyrus, was screaming in technicolor, even though I could only make out one or two words.
Finally, we looked at my basic language centers. Language, of course, is normally located on the dominant side of the brain, which in right-handers like me is on the left side. When I spoke to myself in English, therefore, a small patch of cortex on the left side lighted up. This is known as Broca's area, after the French pathologist who first identified it.
The data from the Italian-speaking exercise unfortunately were ambiguous. The image was filled with green blotches that signified movement. As anyone who watched Roberto Benigni at the Academy Awards knows, Italian is a particularly kinetic language. "The only time you moved your head the whole time was when you were speaking Italian!" Joy cried, explaining why she couldn't definitively say if my Italian was learned early or late. With prodding, she pointed out a tiny gap between the areas that lighted up when I spoke to myself in English and Italian. "If I had to call it," she said, "you have Italian sitting above the English, and both of them are pinned together here in Broca's area." That tiny gap, about five millimeters, suggested that I'd learned Italian as an adult, not as a child.
If there was a lesson from this first expedition, it was this: in terms of neural architecture, we all live in Levittown. Every brain is pretty much like the next. What makes each unique is how we decorate them, as it were, with experience and memory and habits and skills. Staring at these voluptuous, serpentine folds of cortex, I was struck by the strange commingling of inert anatomy and transcendent human qualities. Buried in those headlands and crevices, I knew, were mental images of grandparents no longer alive, of my mother trying to explain death to me for the first time, the sound of loved ones' voices, my father encouraging me as we played catch, of Roberto Clemente whirling and throwing a baseball, as well as the state capital of Vermont, the square root of 81 and the narrative line of three books I've written. The vastness and steadfastness of those memories, all nestled and synaptically etched in this bland gray and squishy landscape, was a miracle impossible to capture on film and perhaps beyond the grasp of our very modest experiments.
But we could try. We decided to devote the next session to exploring things that might be unique to me as a writer and as a person. We would search for the headwaters of storytelling, and we'd try to see if the brain reacted differently when it encountered family and friends as opposed to the faces and voices of strangers.
 
TO THE SOURCE OF NARRATIVE
Joy and Diana Moreno, an Argentine graduate student in her lab, devised a plan to watch my brain in action as it invented a story. They would provide me with a set of narrative prompts -- either a sequence of simple images (like a dog or a tree) or, using a different sensory route to the same destination, a sequence of distinctive sound effects (a honking horn, a crying baby). While the M.R.I. was blasting away, I'd ad-lib a running story in my head (see box).
The results were fascinating. We saw the visual cortex light up as expected. But we also saw many small, discrete precincts of the frontal lobe activated on the right side of the brain, with particularly intense activity in an area called the inferior frontal gyrus -- what might be called the storytelling area. "This is not a subtle effect, Steve," Joy pointed out. "In this business, this is big." It seemed to cover at least 1.5 cubic centimeters -- about the size of a sugar cube. I asked her what might account for its size, and she replied that it could be a combination of things: a natural predisposition to use the right side of my brain (nature) and probably my frequent use of it (nurture) in the course of a lifetime.
There were other areas involved; they formed a network, actually. But Joy seemed particularly taken with the notion that the brain parceled out two related capabilities -- one to create stories and the other to articulate them in speech -- in essentially the same place in the two hemispheres, for my storytelling area was the mirror image of the site on the left, dominant side of the brain that controls speech.
Next we compared familiar voices and faces to unfamiliar voices and faces. When I had suggested the idea of looking at familiar faces while in the machine, I thought it might serve as a back road to memory and feeling; the difference between the perception of an unknown and known face should be the neural residue of recognition and familiarity. Once again, we were in for some surprises.
As the M.R.I. beeped around my head, I was shown a series of 52 photographs over the course of four runs, 13 per run. During the first two runs, none of the faces were familiar -- or, at least, they weren't supposed to be. One picture happened to be a spitting image of the girl -- I'll call her D. -- I had a crush on in high school and whom I'd asked, unsuccessfully, to the senior prom. As I processed this image, I experienced what felt like an Etna of neural activity somewhere in my cranium.
During the next two runs, I was shown only familiar faces -- indeed, painfully familiar in the case of images of myself as Sullen Adolescent and Alienated Hirsute Expatriate. My wife, Mindy, had sent Joy's lab photographs of practically everybody I knew: my parents, Mindy giving birth to our son, my nephews, the college friend I bummed around with in Europe, old family friends, even my old landlady from Rome, as well as six photos of my younger self, including a high-school graduation picture of me looking so clueless that I wouldn't have gone to the prom with me.
When we reviewed the brain scans a few days later, I had the thrill of witnessing a unique feature of the physical world for the first time. During the familiar-faces experiment, we saw activity in the visual cortex; no surprise there. We saw activity in the hippocampus. No surprise there, either; the hippocampus, a structure deep in the interior of the brain, is thought to be involved in the storage of long-term memory. "Your whole hippocampus is screaming!" Joy said. We also saw activity in a structure adjacent to the hippocampus known as the fusiform gyrus; this, too, was not a surprise, at least not to Joy. Recent research on face recognition has identified this as the key area in the brain for the specialized task of perceiving faces. What was a surprise was that the most excited sector in my brain as it viewed familiar faces was, once again, the "storytelling area."
Next, we performed the same exercise using familiar voices: relatives and friends provided the lab with taped monologues addressed to me. Unfortunately, I had the same difficulty making out the voices as in the earlier session; the only voice I could identify unambiguously was that of my wife. I guessed -- correctly, as it turns out -- that other voices belonged to my father, mother and daughter, although I didn't learn until later what they had actually said. My father recalled going to the 1966 All-Star game in St. Louis and meeting the Cub infielder Ron Santo on the plane home. My mother invoked memories of what she called the "friendly persuader" of my mischievous childhood (the wooden spoon). And my 3-year-old daughter, Micaela, had chattered, "Testing, one-two-three, Daddy, I love you, testing one-two-three." I didn't hear any of it.
But, remarkably, my brain apparently did. The scans showed the exact same far-flung network of parts fired up as when I was looking at familiar pictures -- including the storytelling region in my right brain. It was almost as if I subconsciously filtered out the background noise and heard what I needed to hear. And not only that, simply hearing familiar voices activated the visual cortex, as if I mentally pictured the people whose voices I heard.
Joy used that all-purpose, noncommittal, scientifically discreet word to describe this effect: interesting. Exercising the layperson's right to speculate, I was immediately taken by a literary notion: the role of narrative in memory. What the data seemed to suggest to me was that part of what makes a face or a voice familiar to us is that the brain attaches it to a narrative. Perhaps we "tag" people with narratives to help us remember them. The image or voice (and perhaps even the taste, touch or smell) of a familiar person summons up from our memories the story we've woven them into. That madeleine of Marcel Proust's seems less like a literary conceit and more like a brilliant scientific insight -- but then Proust understood at least as much about memory as any modern neuroscientist.
 
THE LAND OF METAPHOR
To map the creation of sentences in my brain, Joy showed me a series of words -- highway, dawn, border -- and asked me to use them in the most elaborate sentences I could think of, all in 10 seconds. One that stuck in my mind was, "The border between here and there is uncertain, and moving further into the future even as we speak."
Joy was particularly amused when she showed me the results of this exercise. The areas of activity were small, relatively discrete and, unlike virtually all of the other creative tasks I performed, well represented on the left as well as the right side of the brain, indicating, she said, excellent mental economy.
I reverted to my right-hemisphere bias on two other tasks: creating metaphors and synonyms. I suppose there might be something socially redeeming about spitting out a metaphor on cue, every four seconds, but after shoveling out 10 examples of figurative language in 40 seconds, it began to feel like an aerobic activity. The cues, once again, were simple illustrations: a globe, a wreath, a canoe, a snail, a tennis racket, a seahorse and so on. Considering some of my responses -- Up the creek without a paddle" and "You've got quite a racket going on," to name two -- I worried that we'd overshot Metaphor Mountain on the map and landed in the Slough of Cliche.
Not so. During this task -- and to a great degree, during the Great Thesauric Expedition (as I now call the synonym task) -- the right side of my brain lighted up like a neon sign on a cheap diner. Almost all the usual suspects were on display: parts of the visual cortex, the language area, that interesting storytelling area in the inferior frontal gyrus and a spot toward the top of the brain, the medial frontal gyrus, that Joy believed was organizing and coordinating high-level activity on a number of tasks. With Joy's help, I was beginning to recognize a network I seemed to use over and over again.
As we reviewed the results, it occurred to me that we had begun to exhaust the usefulness of the geographic metaphor -- and perhaps that was the real point of the entire exercise. The more complex the task, the more dispersed the brain's activity. The pattern in the scans stopped looking like a landscape with a few isolated peaks and more like a circuit with an extravagant number of relay points.
The potential link between circuitry and consciousness became especially clear when we went looking for the seat of humor. Joy showed me Gary Larson cartoons, first with neutral, unfunny captions and then with their proper punch lines. Perhaps because of the circumstances, one cartoon in particular had me struggling to suppress a laugh. It showed a group of doctors in the midst of brain surgery. The neutral caption read, "Operating Room"; the Larson caption had one of the surgeons exclaiming: "Wow! His brain still uses vacuum tubes!"
In response to this and other cartoons, my brain looked like those aerial shots of Southern California during brush-fire season: there were little embers of neural activity all over. The hippocampus lighted up, suggesting the involvement of memory; the thalamus on the right side became active (the first time we'd seen that in any of our experiments), suggesting sensory processing, and we even detected a little activity in the sensorimotor cortex, which normally controls physical movement. Joy immediately thought "smile," and I thought "laugh." Like a Chopin impromptu, my "humor network" hit a great many notes, high in the brain and low, and did so with lightning rapidity: visual processing, language processing, memory, the perception of a cognitive disjunction, and all of it seemingly wired to trip a laugh instantaneously. Moreover, this network began to suggest something more complex than mere cognition -- something like consciousness, for humor is very personal, turning as it does on such idiosyncratic traits as one's sense of irony, cognitive dissonance and Schadenfreude. The network we were seeing, with its unique linkages, represented my sense of humor.
 
THERE IS NO CENTER THERE
As I look at my brain again, slice by slice, holding the film up to a window in my study, I am struck once more with the everyday wonder of the landscape -- the shadowy lines of sulci running like streams to nowhere from the interior of the cerebrum, the peninsular gyri, each plump with purpose and secrets, and, like a river running through it all, the midline separating right hemisphere from left. And more than ever, I realize that the organizing metaphor for this expedition -- a journey to the center of my mind -- has been misleading. As task after task demonstrated, there is no center of activity, only way stations in a circuit, winking at each other in milliseconds, churning in some mysterious neural communion. And the notion of mind? We didn't make much progress penetrating that mystery. Perhaps it's nothing more than the heat given off by our personalized circuits, everywhere and yet nowhere.
If, as Joseph Conrad once said, the most interesting places are the empty spaces on a map, the prefrontal cortex must be an especially fascinating place for brain scientists. We were puzzled by the general dearth of activity in my frontal lobe; although it is supposed to be the real crucible of human thought, none of our exercises seemed to tickle it into much activity. Indeed, there were many questions I wished to ask that we couldn't approach for reasons of practicality or time, or an inability to even formulate a workable experimental question. I was interested, for example, in exploring skills more particular to an editor than a writer, like fixing ungrammatical sentences. I would have liked to probe emotions more intently, especially things we feel every day like anger and insecurity and sexual arousal, but it turns out they are exceedingly difficult to test in a meaningful way. I would have also liked to see what the brain looked like as it wrestled with a moral dilemma.
Brain scientists would like to know the answers to many of those questions, too. But as Joy, whose great-grandmother traveled the Oregon Trail, likes to point out, we're still in the "covered wagon" phase of mapping brain function. "When the real pioneers started their journey, they had no shortage of ideas about what Oregon was going to look like." she said. "And similarly, we have no shortage of ideas about mind and consciousness, even though we really haven't gone very far into the frontier." Even a modest journey like mine, however, hints at the territory ahead. "We have been able to observe several of the interconnected systems in your brain and perhaps have glimpsed some of your consciousness at work, even if it was only a snapshot of a brief instant of your life."
In our age-old struggle to understand the mind, we have always been empowered -- yet oddly constrained -- by the vocabulary of the moment, be it the voices of the gods in ancient myth, buried conflicts in the idiom of Freudian analysis or associative memories in Proustian terms. But as psychology and neuroscience begin to converge, brain imaging may actually provide a new, visual vocabulary with which to rethink, and perhaps reconcile, some of these older ideas of mind. A common thread of both the Freudian and Proustian worldviews is the associative quality of recollection -- the odd word or sight that connects to a deeper trauma, the odor that connects to a more extensive memory. Association requires connections, and as I saw, a brain scan of humor, for example, can actually depict a rich skein of associations in a diagram of neural connections. Preposterous as it may seem, I can imagine a day in the distant future when the M.R.I. replaces the couch, when the therapist uses words or odors or pictures to excite and pinpoint circuitry and then the neuroanatomist translates the images into explanations of behavior. Of course, there is always the possibility that after decades of exploration in search of mind, we'll still find ourselves, metaphorically speaking, knee-deep in a swamp of neurotransmitters that may bring us no closer to a biological understanding of "mind."
It's odd to put it this way, but I may know more about how my brain works than almost any human who has ever lived, and yet that knowledge has won nothing more than a beachhead on a vast, uncharted continent. That is no small achievement, though my journey makes clear that these are early days in the brain-mapping business. I cannot say what in my genetics or upbringing might have contributed to the hive of activity we observed in the right side of my brain. Or why I remember everything about the moment when my friend D. agreed to go to the prom with me 30 years ago but nothing about the moment when she changed her mind. Given the insecurities of adolescence and the uncertainties of affection, it seemed at the time like one of those watershed moments of my life, and even now it can still produce a wince, but it appears to have eluded the gaze of the M.R.I. machine. For when we went back and examined the scans taken in the moment when I thought I'd been shown D.'s face, the data had been subsumed in a stream of average responses. It didn't leave a trace.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Embarking on his neural picaresque, the author enters the narrow bore of a M.R.I. machine. In three sessions, researchers will collect 226,000,000 data points about his brain. (Raymond Meier); The lines show the location of the 21 slices of neural territory measured. The scan at far left is slice No. 12. (The Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Laboratory/Memorial Sloan-Kettering)
 
Table: In one of the storytelling exercises, I was shown this sequence of 10 images and asked to create a running narrative that incorporated the pictures. This is the story I told myself in the allotted 44 seconds:
"I was out with my dog. This dog is trouble. He never minds me. I was sitting on a park bench and called him, but of course he ran in the opposite direction. In fact, he ran behind a tree. But when I looked behind the tree, he was gone. Now I knew that it was going to be hard to track this damn dog down, so I took out a pencil. I was going to have to make some notes in my notebook. I wrote down lots of notes, and all the clues pointed to a house with two chimneys and eight windows (sic). There was a lock on the door, but it was easy to get open. The first thing that happened was that I stepped on a clothes hanger lying on the floor in the foyer. Strange house. I went upstairs. There was an unmade bed in one room. This place is a mess -- doesn't anyone clean up around here? The dog was under the bed."
Areas of common activity in the visual and auditory storytelling tasks were merged, producing the image on the left. Overall, the activity is predominantly in the right hemisphere (which appears to be on the left here) and mostly in the posterior part of the brain. The "storytelling area" is the yellow circle in the upper left. S.S.H.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); NEW YORK JETS (84%); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BRAIN; MAGNETIC RESONANCE SPECTROMETER; EXPLORATION AND EXPLORERS DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (90%); BRAIN (89%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (89%); NEUROSCIENCE (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); CANCER (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (62%); WRITERS (62%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (61%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: HIRSCH, JOY; HALL, STEPHEN S JOY HIRSCH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



144 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 6; Page 136; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3399 words

HEADLINE: A Nigerian Discovers America

BYLINE: By Roger Cohen; Roger Cohen is the Berlin bureau chief of The New York Times and the author of "Hearts Grown Brutal: Sagas of Sarajevo."

 BODY:
The road from Nigeria to Texas is a long one, and for Murphy Popoola it leads to this small Houston apartment with a dirt-encrusted bathtub and a pile of telephone books that pass for a table. Oil country, Texas and Nigeria: hard places, but there, thinks Popoola, the similarities end. A slender figure, he is slumped in an armchair opposite a television set. A politician is talking about America's unquenchable spirit -- the men and women who went West in their wagons, put us on the moon and will lead us into the next century."
Murphy Popoola cares little about the next century, still less about the moon. He is untouched by the wagons that carried bold men to Texas, the men who gave America its mythical man on horseback, the cowboy. "Ubi est pane, ibi est patria" -- Where there is bread, there is my country" -- said the Romans, and for this young Nigerian, the bread is in Houston. Simple as that. Like tens of millions before him, he has traveled far from home to seek American opportunity. "Here," he says, "you work, you have money, you eat." 
 It sounds straightforward enough: a job, a salary, food. But in Nigeria, as in many countries that have sent millions of immigrants to the United States, work is scarce, reward meager, hunger not uncommon. Oil money in Texas goes to shareholders; in Nigeria, home to one in every six Africans, it has tended to end up in a general's Swiss bank account. Per capita Nigerian income is now about $25 a month, one-fourth of what it was in the 1980's. By such standards, it is not necessary to discover a Texan gusher to claim an American success story or to cement a foreigner's determination to stay.
A quiet, deliberate man, Popoola, age 35, does not have the air of an adventurer. But driven by the overpowering sense that his life would otherwise be squandered, he became one, breaking his life apart. In the risk that rupture involved, he now sees, lies an opportunity to change himself, his own country and even his adopted land. "I miss my people," he says with a faraway look, "but life there was impossible. Now I have one life here, one in Nigeria. We who have left have a responsibility to show Nigeria the way. I do not believe it should be too much to ask for a reasonable life."
But the reasonable has rarely been the immigrant's lot. Broken families, lost identities, gambled lives have long been part of America's frontier restlessness. As is plain from visits to his old home in Nigeria and his new one in Texas, Murphy Popoola now finds himself caught between worlds.
In Tola's face you see a heaviness. She moves with an absence of will, as if the prisoner of boredom or custom or a crushing fatalism. But perhaps she is merely oblivious, locked in her world. Tola was five months pregnant when Popoola left this provincial Nigerian town of Osogbo for America.
A ceiling fan circles, making little impression on the early-afternoon heat. Africa, in its immensity, is impervious to most forces -- this fan, the passage of time, the striving of the stricken, their small and larger betrayals. Outside, goats feed on the scattered garbage; dust and the intermittent sound of Muslim prayer fill the air. The briskness of Texas -- its definition, its brightness, its harsh purposefulness -- is absent from this scene of mottled sloth. Time here is a slow thing, a vague idea, a shapeless expanse without distinguishing feature. It has been stripped of all its urgency and most of its relevance.
How much time has passed? Popoola said he would soon return to Nigeria from the United States, but more than two years have gone by since his departure, and he has never seen the boy born to Tola after he left. Little Bimbola stands there now, among the many children that dart around the room. We are in the apartment of an "Oba," a man of influence, a "Big Man," as Nigerians say. His name is Ojo Dayo, he is married to Tola's sister and he has made enough money from his auto dealership to furnish this apartment to accommodate an extended family comfortably. From her pocket Tola takes a photograph of a slight man with delicate hands clasping a flower: Murphy Popoola, the soft-spoken one, whom she met on a school bench many years ago.
"Funke," she says, summoning a 5-year-old girl with braided hair. "Who is this man?" After a brief examination, Funke declares, "That is Daddy." And where is he? The girl attempts a smile; she seems to be about to speak, perhaps even say "America," but instead starts to twist the bottom of her shirt around her fingers, twisting it tighter and tighter, until finally she runs away without a word, her shirt and her young mind in a knot.
Tola says: "Only God knows when I will see Murphy. His children need him. I trust in God. God knows that everybody wants to go to America."
still they come, close to a million legal immigrants every year, untold numbers of illegals. I look at Popoola with his first American possessions -- a Sony blaster, a Pioneer television, a Webster's College Dictionary. Next, he says, he plans to buy a computer, for $700.
The future -- that American obsession -- is already taking hold of him. But in many ways, Popoola will be different from the millions of anonymous adventurers who have preceded him. He will not exile himself forever from one life to begin another. Nor is he likely to remain another unskilled laborer toiling on a railroad or in a garment factory. He knows he must be computer-literate if he is ever to start his own business and to communicate by E-mail with friends back home. As much as a destination, America is now a paradigm, a rite of passage, a way of life that is increasingly becoming the world's. To become an American is an escape for Popoola; it may also be a way to return to Nigeria as a citizen of the world.
The first census, in 1790, counted 3.9 million Americans. Today, with ceaseless immigration, there are 275 million. The vast majority of Popoola's African forebears did not share the hopes that lured these people. They were among the 10 million slaves brought to the New World from Africa. Popoola knows it only dimly, but he is the beneficiary of an incessant struggle to open opportunity also to the African-American. In a sense, then, he has timed his arrival in the United States well.
Funke. Popoola says the name of his daughter slowly. FUN-kay. He misses her hand in his, that shy smile. When he can, he sends her money, $100 wired by Western Union to Osogbo. He thinks of bringing her to America one day, giving her an education, and a chance to get ahead. As for Bimbola, he prefers not to talk about him. Popoola says that he did not know when he left Nigeria that Tola was pregnant. All the disruption in his life is, for Popoola, ultimately the work of the "self-centered, greedy rulers of Africa," who pushed him to seek a life elsewhere. He worked in a bank, he saw millions borrowed by the Nigerian Government that never appeared in officials' accounts and went straight into "the coffers of one person." Meanwhile, hospitals had no medicine, and in a country earning more than $10 billion a year from oil revenue, service stations had no gasoline. Opportunity, for the typical man or woman, requires capital, stability and the rule of law. Nigeria, with 28 years of military rule in the past 32, and countless coups, has been consistent only in the arbitrariness of its governance.
Popoola tried to hang on. For nine years he labored in the National Bank, only to be paid off with about $50 when the bank collapsed. Then he started a business, Popoola Special Breads. He put what money he had saved into the bakery. But he needed a vehicle to distribute the bread, and no bank would lend him money. "Everyone needs capital in Nigeria," he says, "and nobody will give you capital." In early 1996, Popoola Special Breads closed its doors. It was one thing to fail; it was another to sense that there was almost no chance of success. He heard of some Nigerians who had made a good life for themselves in the United States, so he decided to apply for a visa, and when after a long wait one was granted, he had no hesitation in boarding the bus from Osogbo to Lagos. To Tola and Funke, he said he would soon return; to himself, he muttered that he had little idea where the road would lead. He was on his way into the unknown.
An American immigrant's adventure begins thus: the Osogbo-Lagos bus, a Toyota minivan always crammed with at least 20 people, traveling for three hours through lush, dense forest. Heat, sweat, dirt, black fumes, mumbled prayers, bodies pressed against one another, lurching progress over potholed roads. "It's Good to Be Good," says a bumper sticker. But it's not easy in Nigeria.
When the forest thins, scrawny cattle appear, with dust rising behind them. Trucks pass with perhaps a hundred standing passengers and their bundles piled in the back, heading for the teeming metropolis: Lagos. The city, when it looms out of its yellowish pall, is approached by passing through a large goat market. Billboards advertise fans, life insurance and various forms of salvation.
Churches purveying this salvation abound -- the Holy Ghost Solution Church, the Foursquare Gospel Church. A sign says, "You Will Give an Account of Yourself One Day to Your Creator." Churches, in recent years, have been one of Nigeria's few booming businesses, packed with preachers who advise that financial problems fade with God at your side. Popoola is a Christian; he has heard that American saying, "In God We Trust." But he believes that in the New World salvation lies on earth.
On Nov. 22, 1996, his plane arrived at Kennedy airport. His passport was stamped for six months. Before that time elapsed, Popoola found an American wife, Doris, in Houston and filed for permanent status as the spouse of a citizen. "We met at a club," he says. "We liked each other." Did he marry for love or for a green card? "We are close," Popoola says. "And I want to be part of an economy that has a meaning." And what of Tola, back home in Nigeria? "She is gentle," Popoola says slowly. "She knows, she understands."
Nigeria, a land of 110 million and perhaps many more, endured a devastating civil war starting in 1967, when the Ibos of the southeast fought to secede and establish the independent state of Biafra. Popoola belongs to the Yoruba, the dominant tribe in the southwest, but like all Nigerians he carries deep within him the wounds of war. He understands the danger of blood-driven division. Since the American Revolution, the idea has held in the United States that the nation is based on an inclusive idea of citizenship affording the same rights and imposing the same obligations on all people, whether from Osogbo, Shanghai or Kosovo. In other words, American nationality is willed; the blood is irrelevant. "Nobody bothers you," Popoola says. "You work, you live a quiet life, you move forward."
The adventurer is a stranger, challenging the established order. But in America, the immigrant adventurer is seen as an emblem of faith in the rewards of risk and restless change. "It is one and the same set of values that accepts a churning population and a constant openness to economic innovation," says Thomas J. Archdeacon, a historian at the University of Wisconsin.
Only occasionally does Tola break into a beguiling smile. She says that Bimbola was born on April 4, 1997, about four months after Popoola left. She insists that Murphy "knew I was pregnant." Ojo Dayo, the "Big Man," the owner of this apartment, enters, and Tola bows slightly, a deferential gesture that seems as automatic as breathing. He is a small man, with sparkling eyes, robed in white, and he has six children with Tola's older sister, Alaja, and another six children with a second, "senior," wife, who also lives here. Dayo is a Muslim, but even among Christians, like Murphy, polygamy is not uncommon in Nigeria.
From Kennedy Airport, Popoola made his way to New Jersey, where he had an acquaintance. But the weather there was too cold. So he traveled to Houston, home to a Nigerian community of some 20,000, most of whom have arrived over the past 20 years. Rafiu, his older brother, had given him the name of a woman working in the food-import business. Through her, Popoola found an earlier Nigerian arrival, Usen Tom Inyang -- and a job.
You could call Inyang the goat guru of Houston. He started thinking about goat when he was carpooling to Prairie View A & M, where he obtained a master's degree in management and marketing. The Mexicans were bringing in younger goats, but older goats, full-grown goats, the kind Africans like, were impossible to find in the market. A full-grown goat, particularly a billy goat, is tough and takes many hours to cook. As it simmers, the goat provides the base for the popular edikan-ikon dish, a thick Nigerian stew in which a spinachlike green vegetable called ikon, meat and dried fish blend over at least seven hours of cooking. "The secret is that the dish must be juicy but not watery," says the 51-year-old Inyang.
He arrived as a student in the United States in 1977 at the start of the first wave of Nigerian immigration. While completing a first degree at Texas Southern University, he worked many years in a gas station. By the late 1980's, he had decided to set up his own business and bought his first goats in 1987. At the time they cost about $40 each. Demand has soared since, and the price has risen to about $200 for a 175-pound goat.
In 1992, Inyang decided to convert the premises of his goat business into a traditional African restaurant, which today advertises itself as providing "authentic African delicacies." Open seven days a week, it's a friendly, informal place in southwest Houston frequented mainly by Nigerians. Here Popoola works as waiter, dishwasher and general assistant to Inyang. "When I see what happens in Nigeria, I like this restaurant, a business that is achieving something, doing something, making people happy," Popoola says. "I believe in working hard, no shortcuts, honest hard work. I cook, wash, serve, everything."
Popoola, who has temporary papers authorizing him to work as he awaits his green card, works six or seven days a week and earns more than $2,000 a month -- a very good wage by Nigerian standards. He is attending computer-technology classes at Houston Community College a few evenings a week.
As for Inyang, he already has his green card and expects to become a citizen soon. "I like this country, because if you choose to do the right thing, you can do it," he says. "Now I'd like to transplant some of my endeavors back there in Nigeria, to show that new businesses can succeed. I have ideas for some food-processing plants and for supermarkets."
Popoola's younger brother, Gavari, says he is in business. Any business. That is the way it has to be in Nigeria. Sometimes he does "artworks." Sometimes he buys and sells things. Spare parts, for example, or tires, or paintings. But sometimes there is nothing to sell.
We are seated in a bar in Osogbo. Night has fallen and the lights have gone out, thanks to the National Electric Power Authority, so inept that its initials are widely held to stand for "Never Expect Power Again." A generator chugs, half-illuminating a street where the seething activity of Nigeria continues unabated, people moving through the shadows bearing bundles. Abruptly, a fight erupts. Punches are thrown. Screaming. A man is on the floor. Some beer bought on credit a couple of weeks ago and never paid for. A beautiful young woman tries to intervene. Gavari, who is 32, shakes his head. He has the slowness, the dreaminess of his brother in Houston.
This ponderousness, I see now, reflects the rhythms of the land. As children, Murphy and Gavari and their older brother, Rafiu, spent a lot of time out on the farm of their parents, Ibrahim and Abike Popoola. There were yams and coconuts and plantains, and if you wanted to catch a fish, the river was nearby and the fish could be cooked on an open fire and eaten outside.
When I ask where the farm is, Gavari says it is far away, "on the other side of the river." Distance, like time, is vague here. But I can see a line, at once real and fantastic, traced from this faraway farm to Osogbo, and on to Lagos, where Rafiu works, and then over the Atlantic to Houston and Murphy Popoola.
It was when the Industrial Revolution hit Europe in the 19th century, disrupting old agrarian patterns and sending people pouring into the cities, that immigration to the United States spiraled. In the last 30 years there has been enormous Latin American and Asian immigration to the United States. Now it may be Africa's turn.
Gavari brings me back to his two-room apartment, where he lives with his wife, Kehinde, and 2-year-old son. He has no furniture, other than a mattress on the floor, and no running water. Even though newly arrived in the United States, Murphy Popoola already has much more. "One day, Murphy will come back to visit," Gavari says. "I am sure of that. But I am also sure America is a fine place. Even if I like my country, I would like to leave it and go to America."
Rafiu Popoola has a manner of almost saintlike humility. He seems untouched by material things. Children flock to him. He betrays the goodness, amid hardship, of many Nigerians. Rafiu is a builder and works for a successful businessman in Lagos named Moshood Owolabi Fusigbaye. It was the older sister of Fusigbaye's wife in Houston who first helped Murphy. At the Fusigbaye home in Lagos, several children play with a Compaq computer, doing drawings and spelling tests, using its CD player to listen to Elton John, even receiving E-mail.
The world is getting smaller, in America's image. Suliat Fusigbaye, age 8, has already visited the United States. Did she like it? Yes. Why? Because I had fun. She is too young, of course, to have influenced politics. But the openness she enjoys has affected her country. Nigeria has found itself increasingly isolated in its military rule. As a result, the country's transition to democracy this year appears to have such overwhelming backing, both internal and external, that it may even prove permanent.
Rafiu says that his country is changing: "For a long time, they would just lock you up if you spoke your mind. So people became silent. And we were just looking, looking, looking. And we all knew the elders were putting billions outside the country. But now, by the grace of God, there will be a change, and there will be opportunity here as well as over there where Murphy is."
Murphy says he dreams of his daughter, Funke. He longs to hold her in his arms. But with "no fuel, no jobs and no money" in Nigeria, he has decided that he wants to become an American citizen. Meanwhile, until he gets his green card, he cannot travel outside the country. Even so, it seems clear that Murphy Popoola has what it takes. He arrived with $200 in his pocket. He recently bought an old Mazda for $1,200. He says he has long-term plans to study law and then go into business. Perhaps, one day, Popoola Special Breads will thrive in Texas.
Back in Lagos, Rafiu awaits change "by the grace of God." In this, he differs from Murphy, who has the adventurer's practical determination to grab life by the scruff of the neck. As for Gavari, he is vague, a dreamer and a drifter; he lacks the hard edge that has brought Murphy to Houston. The brothers may follow Murphy, but they would not have led the way.
"I came to America," Murphy says, "because at least you can have an ambition and work toward it."
Tola prays at the Christ Apostolic Church, an open shack on the outskirts of Osogbo. To the chiming of bells and the beating of drums, faith and rhythm come together: "By my side, by my side, we thank you, Lord, we thank you, Lord." Men stand on one side, women on the other, with children between them, moving in unison. Faith is strong in the absence of rational reasons to hope. Truth is not as sharply defined as in America. When I go to say goodbye to Tola, I ask her if she has a message for Murphy. She thinks for a moment, and says, "Tell him Funke sends her greetings, and I am waiting for him, and I would like to go to America."
Asked which American town Murphy Popoola is in, she breaks into one of her very rare smiles and says she does not know.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Popoola, right (with Inyang, center, and another restaurant employee): Working his way back up the American way. (Maggie Steber); Tola and Funke patiently await Murphy Popoola's return. It's been two years, and he hasn't seen the son born to Tola after he left (Roger Cohen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NIGERIA (97%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SWISS BANK & TRUST CORP LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: POPOOLA, MURPHY; TEXAS; NIGERIA; HOUSTON (TEX); UNITED STATES (98%); NIGERIA (97%); AFRICA (79%); TEXAS, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES IMMIGRATION (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); REFUGEES (66%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER MURPHY POPOOLA (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



145 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 50; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: June 6, 1999

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	3	STAR WARS: Episode I -- The Phantom Menace, by Terry Brooks. (Lucas/Ballantine, $25.) How it all began for Anakin Skywalker (a k a Darth Vader).		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	3	WHITE OLEANDER, by Janet Fitch. (Little, Brown, $24.) The ordeals of growing up as experienced by a teen-age girl whose single mother murders a lover.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	5	WE'LL MEET AGAIN, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A woman struggles to free herself of the suspicion that she murdered her husband.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	5	2	CERTAIN PREY, by John Sandford. (Putnam, $24.95.) Lucas Davenport pursues a woman who is a longtime successful paid killer.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	12	167	OH, THE PLACES YOU'LL GO! by Dr. Seuss. (Random House, $17.) The problems of finding your way through life; in verse and pictures.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	4	7	THE GIRL WHO LOVED TOM GORDON, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $16.95.) When a young girl gets lost in the woods, she is saved by her spiritual association with a relief pitcher for the Boston Red Sox.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	13	2	THE WHITE HOUSE CONNECTION, by Jack Higgins. (Putnam, $25.95.) Tracking an assassin who threatens the stability of the British and American Governments.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	9	16	THE TESTAMENT, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) A reclusive billionaire, a burned-out lawyer and a missionary are brought together by a startling secret.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	8	7	A NEW SONG, by Jan Karon. (Viking, $24.95.) A clergyman and his wife move 600 miles from home, creating new friendships and maintaining old ones.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	10	24	 *HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, by J. K. Rowling. (Levine/Scholastic, $16.95.) A British boy finds his fortune attending a school of witchcraft.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	6	5	EAST OF THE MOUNTAINS, by David Guterson. (Harcourt Brace, $25.) A man with cancer returns to the eastern Washington of his youth to commit suicide.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	11	3	JOINING, by Johanna Lindsey. (Avon, $24.) In 13th-century England, a woman gradually changes her feelings about her partner in an arranged marriage.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	7	8	BITTERSWEET, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $26.95.) A woman copes with a midlife crisis: should she continue to raise a family or should she pursue her old career?		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	14	2	 *BEYOND THE GREAT SNOW MOUNTAINS, by Louis L'Amour. (Bantam, $16.95.) Ten short stories ranging from the Old West to Hollywood to Siberia.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15		3	THE BEST AMERICAN SHORT STORIES OF THE CENTURY, edited by John Updike and Katrina Kenison. (Houghton Mifflin, $28.) Fifty-five stories published since 1915.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	5	2	EVERY MAN A TIGER, by Tom Clancy with Chuck Horner. (Putnam, $27.95.) The novelist and a retired Air Force general examine the Persian Gulf war.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	1	25	THE GREATEST GENERATION, by Tom Brokaw. (Random House, $24.95.) The lives of men and women who came of age during the Depression and World War II.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	2	85	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Doubleday, $19.95.) A sportswriter tells of his weekly visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	17	2	BETRAYAL, by Bill Gertz. (Regnery, $27.95.) A reporter charges that the Clinton Administration has undermined America's security. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	4	7	BELLA TUSCANY, by Frances Mayes. (Broadway, $25.) Remembering a spring and summer spent in Italy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	3	10	YESTERDAY, I CRIED, by Iyanla Vanzant. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) A counselor describes how she turned painful experiences into feelings of hope.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	7	27	THE CENTURY, by Peter Jennings and Todd Brewster. (Doubleday, $60.) An account of the 20th century.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	8	20	THE ART OF HAPPINESS, by the Dalai Lama and Howard C. Cutler. (Riverhead, $22.95.) What Buddhism and common sense tell us about everyday problems.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	6	11	ALL TOO HUMAN, by George Stephanopoulos. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) The former adviser to President Clinton recalls his years in the White House.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	11	5	THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	9	9	 *BUSINESS @ THE SPEED OF THOUGHT, by Bill Gates with Collins Hemingway. (Warner, $30.) How new technology is changing the ways business is done. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12		1	 *NO ONE LEFT TO LIE TO, by Christopher Hitchens. (Verso, $19.) A journalist's critical view of the public and private life of Bill Clinton. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	10	8	 *THE MAJORS, by John Feinstein. (Little, Brown, $25.) A journalist reports on the 1998 Masters, U.S. Open, British Open and P.G.A. golf tournaments.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14		1	SHY BOY, by Monty Roberts. (HarperCollins, $30.) The rapport that developed between a wild mustang and a professional horse trainer.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15	12	4	 *COMFORT FROM A COUNTRY QUILT, by Reba McEntire. (Bantam, $19.95.) The country music star tells how she balances the demands of career and family.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 16	14	2	 *WAKE UP, I'M FAT! by Camryn Manheim. (Broadway, $23.) The memoir of a television actress who has long contended with obesity and its stigmas.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	3	2	CONGRATULATIONS! NOW WHAT? by Bill Cosby. (Hyperion, $15.95.) The television star offers advice for new college graduates.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	1	2	SUZANNE SOMERS' GET SKINNY ON FABULOUS FOOD, by Suzanne Somers. (Crown, $24.) A diet regimen to help people lose weight and remain healthy. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	2	47	SUGAR BUSTERS! by H. Leighton Steward et al. (Ballantine, $22.) A diet designed for losing weight, increasing energy and combating disease. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	4	18	ONE DAY MY SOUL JUST OPENED UP, by Iyanla Vanzant. (Fireside/S&S, $13.) How to raise one's morale and realize one's ambitions. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending May 22, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books.
 
And Bear in Mind
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
ANOTHER WORLD, by Pat Barker. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) Old hatreds, wounds and guilt, simmering from World War I and beyond, haunt a family in a novel set in modern Newcastle.
 
BROADWAY BABIES SAY GOODNIGHT: Musicals Then and Now, by Mark Steyn. (Routledge, $27.) A history of the Broadway musical by an English critic who fears that while there may once have been no business like show business, it's not exactly thriving anymore.
 
CLEAR SPRINGS: A Memoir, by Bobbie Ann Mason. (Random House, $25.) The author revisits her old Kentucky home, giving readers a glimpse at the inspiration for much of her fiction, and finds the sun still shines bright.
 
CLOSE RANGE: Wyoming Stories, by Annie Proulx. (Scribner, $25.) A collection that depicts the New West within the framework of the Wild West, and discovers life hasn't changed all that much for the cowboys and cowgirls who inhabit it.
 
FREEDOM FROM FEAR: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945, by David M. Kennedy. (Oxford University, $39.95.) A history of the Roosevelt era, from the New Deal to V-E Day, and the America he taught to believe that "the only thing we have to fear is fear itself."
 
LOVE IN A DEAD LANGUAGE: A Romance, by Lee Siegel. (University of Chicago, $25.) An ambitious and imaginative novel masquerading as a commentary on the Kama Sutra that becomes a literary puzzle in which Nabokov, Joyce and Philip Roth provide the clues.
 
MUSIC FOR TORCHING, by A. M. Homes. (Rob Weisbach/Morrow, $26.) Another provocative novel from the author who was almost banned in Britain, this time about a very odd couple in a middle-class suburbia that even Cheever never imagined.
 
THE NIGHT INSPECTOR, by Frederick Busch. (Harmony, $23.) A Union sniper in the Civil War, encased in a mask to hide his disfigurement from a wound that ended his Army career, makes unlikely friends with a famous author down on his luck who sounds a lot like Melville.
 
TURN OF THE CENTURY, by Kurt Andersen. (Random House, $24.95.) A novel about a "yoga-practicing Jew" and a "lapsed Unitarian" who are married and competing in the silicon rat race of the new millennium, where life is only slightly more crazy than the old one.
 
WOMAN: An Intimate Geography, by Natalie Angier. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A personal celebration of the female of the species -- the glory, the rapture, the mystery of being a woman -- written from the point of view of a member of that sex but which may prove instructive for the other one as well. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (69%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (54%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (69%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%); BOSTON, MA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TEEN SUICIDE (70%); MARRIAGE (68%); BASEBALL (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); SINGLE PARENTS (55%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (57%); J K ROWLING (57%); JOHN GRISHAM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



146 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 34; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 6886 words

HEADLINE: Summer Reading

 BODY:
THIS list has been selected from books reviewed since the Holiday Books issue of December 1998. It is meant to suggest some of the high points in this year's fiction, poetry, nonfiction, mysteries and science fiction. The books are arranged alphabetically under genre headings. The complete reviews of these books may be found at The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books.
 
FICTION & POETRY
AMSTERDAM. By Ian McEwan. (Nan A. Talese/ Doubleday, $21.) In this tartly comic novel, winner of the 1998 Booker Prize, the author dispatches his self-important heroes, a composer and an editor, on the very short road from hubris to nemesis.
AMY AND ISABELLE. By Elizabeth Strout. (Random House, $22.95.) This evocative first novel examines with ruthless intimacy the relationship between a girl of 16 and her mother, who have only recently begun to hate each other.
ANOTHER WORLD. By Pat Barker. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) Old hatreds, wounds and guilt, simmering from World War I and beyond, haunt a family in a novel set in modern Newcastle.
BE COOL. By Elmore Leonard. (Delacorte, $24.95.) The further adventures of Chili Palmer, mobster turned movie producer, now in the record business.
THE BEST AMERICAN SHORT STORIES OF THE CENTURY. Edited by John Updike and Katrina Kenison. (Houghton Mifflin, $28.) A collection that celebrates short fiction in the United States and a series called Best American Short Stories, in whose annual volumes each of the anthology's stories once appeared.
BONE BY BONE. By Peter Matthiessen. (Random House, $26.95.) The last of three novels inhabited and propelled by Edgar J. Watson, a cane planter, developer and murderer whose conquest of Florida's Gulf Coast marches with the imperialist impulses of the young United States.
BREAKFAST ON PLUTO. By Patrick McCabe. (Harper Flamingo, $22.) An effusively cheerful transvestite, disengaged in a London paralyzed by I.R.A. bombs, is the protagonist of this novel by a master of the literary macabre.
BREATH AND SHADOWS. By Ella Leffland. (Morrow, $24.) Suffused with a moonlit melancholy, this novel braids together three generations of a Danish family to pose a haunting question: What do we leave behind to prove we have ever existed?
CHOCOLAT. By Joanne Harris. (Viking, $22.95.) An accomplished and tempting novel in which a French village priest is inspired to sabotage when he perceives (correctly) a chocolate festival that coincides with Easter as an assault on the faith.
CITY OF LIGHT. By Lauren Belfer. (Dial, $24.95.) In this historical novel, the headmistress of a girls' school in turn-of-the-century Buffalo finds herself caught between scientists and environmentalists as Niagara Falls is tapped for electric power.
CLOSE RANGE: Wyoming Stories. By Annie Proulx. (Scribner, $25.) A collection that depicts the New West within the framework of the Wild West, and discovers life hasn't changed all that much for the cowboys and cowgirls who inhabit it.
COLLECTED POEMS: 1920-1954. By Eugenio Montale. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $40.) Jonathan Galassi's superb translation, with commentary, of the three principal books of a man of letters now recognized as one of Italy's greatest poets.
THE CONVERSION. By Aharon Appelfeld. (Schocken, $22.) An apostate seems to learn that Jews should remain Jews in this quasi-historical novel that analyzes the significance of religious identity in the disintegrating Hapsburg Empire.
THE COUNTRY LIFE. By Rachel Cusk. (Picador, $24.) A controlled and subversive comic novel in the British tradition of wet and weedy country life, inhabited by unscrupulous rural tyrants, told by a governess from London who is off her own hinges.
CRYPTONOMICON. By Neal Stephenson. (Avon, $27.50.) A sprawling, picaresque post-modern narrative about code making and code breaking, set both during World War II and in the present day.
DAMASCUS. By Richard Beard. (Arcade, $23.95.) Time goes nowhere in this deft, charming novel whose lead characters, two otherwise unremarkable Britons, are born, fall in love, suffer immersion in a triangle and do whatever else they do on the identical date in November.
A DANGEROUS FRIEND. By Ward Just. (Peter Davison/Houghton Mifflin, $23.) As its well-meaning civilian hero attempts to find an American officer captured in Vietnam, this novel emerges as an allegory for our country's place in the increasingly deranged world of the mid-1960's.
DEVIL'S VALLEY. By Andre Brink. (Harcourt Brace, $24.) A mythographic novel that resurrects and reburies the Afrikaner past by creating a town, isolated for 150 years, where all is so white a portrait painter forbids himself brown pigments.
DREAMLAND. By Kevin Baker. (HarperCollins, $26.) A jampacked historical fantasy that flings real and imaginary characters into the whirlwind of dangerous, irresistible energy that was New York City in the first decade of this century.
THE DREAM MISTRESS. By Jenny Diski. (Ecco, $23.95.) A novel that weaves narrative, dream and memory into a web of resonant interconnections between a woman who suffers from trances and a bag lady who has neither name nor face.
DUANE'S DEPRESSED. By Larry McMurtry. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) Actually, Duane's not so depressed; he's just taking time out at 62 to rework and unclutter his life in the final volume of the expansive half-century Texas trilogy that began with "The Last Picture Show."
EAST INTO UPPER EAST: Plain Tales From New York and New Delhi. By Ruth Prawer Jhabvala. (Counterpoint, $25.) Stories by a spellbinding urban fabulist, concerning divided souls, people whose protective coloration belies their inner longings, in two great cities.
EMPRESS OF THE SPLENDID SEASON. By Oscar Hijuelos. (Harper Flamingo, $25.) A tender novel, by the author of "The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love," in which a beautiful Cuban emigre who works as a cleaning lady is the victim of a struggle between her instinct for self-invention and her inability to devise a suitable self.
ENGLAND, ENGLAND. By Julian Barnes. (Knopf, $23.) This satirical novel suggests that while there may always be an England, its immediate future looks more like a theme park than an empire.
FOR THE RELIEF OF UNBearable Urges. By Nathan Englander. (Knopf, $22.) Ambitious short stories by a 29-year-old former yeshiva student from New York, now living in secular Israel; his characters are able to flourish in a borderland between the author's old world and that new one.
FREDY NEPTUNE. By Les Murray. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) This verse novel follows an itinerant Everyman from Australia, afflicted with an unusual power, as he travels through the horrors of the 20th century.
FREEDOM SONG: Three Novels. By Amit Chaudhuri. (Knopf, $24.) Brilliant, artfully plotless narratives by a writer less interested in any particular story than in the bits of life and temporary states out of which lives are made.
THE GROUND BENEATH HER FEET. By Salman Rushdie. (Holt, $27.50.) Gods, humans and rock performers mix and match conduct -- some horrific, some charming -- in a novel not of our world but of a dangerous, fragile world, riven with earthquakes and set at a refractive angle to ours.
HEAVY WATER: And Other Stories. By Martin Amis. (Harmony, $21.) Stories in which Amis's comic timing, perfect pitch and curatorial eye are applied to issues like sexual norms, the rewards of poetry and the date of the end of the world.
HUMAN VOICES. By Penelope Fitzgerald. (Mariner/ Houghton Mifflin, paper, $12.) In her wry novel set during the blitz, the author uses the BBC's Broadcasting House as a microcosm in which the 9 o'clock news kept Britain abreast of the progress of its finest hour.
INCUBUS. By Ann Arensberg. (Knopf, $24.) Symptoms of witchcraft (wilted crops, monstrous births), followed by bodiless sexual entities, descend on a Maine town, apparently as metaphors for its social inadequacies, in this post-modern psychological Gothic novel.
THE INTUITIONIST. By Colson Whitehead. (Anchor/ Doubleday, $19.95.) An ingenious, original first novel that pits empiricism against intuition in elevator inspection by way of approaching racial struggle and social progress.
THE JEW OF NEW YORK. By Ben Katchor. (Pantheon, $20.) Set in a shadowy, understated, mysteriously opaque New York of 1830, this graphic novel revolves, often at some distance, around a plan for a Jewish refuge upstate and a wandering, disgraced kosher slaughterer who has briefly been there.
A JOURNEY TO THE END OF THE MILLENNIUM. By A. B. Yehoshua. (Doubleday, $24.95.) Starting in A.D. 999, the pre-eminent Israeli modernist whisks some Jewish merchants across Europe to expose and examine the breaches between Sephardi and Ashkenazi, Jew and Christian, Muslim and Jew, men and women.
KAFKA'S CURSE. By Achmat Dangor. (Pantheon, $22.) A novel of magical fables in which the lies and lunacy of apartheid in the old South Africa continue their work in the new -- when, for instance, a man who had faked his race for a higher notch is metamorphosed into a tree.
LITTLE GREEN MEN. By Christopher Buckley. (Random House, $24.95.) A witty, high-spirited political satire whose pretext is that flying saucers are a hoax by a Government organization so secret even the President doesn't know about it.
LOUSE. By David Grand. (Arcade, $23.95.) An eerie and angry first novel that mirrors the anguish of workers in an age of job insecurity, video surveillance and shameless corporate euphemisms; its finest character is a monstrous capitalist modeled on the aging Howard Hughes.
LOVE IN A DEAD LANGUAGE: A Romance. By Lee Siegel. (University of Chicago, $25.) An ambitious and imaginative novel masquerading as a commentary on the Kama Sutra that becomes a literary puzzle in which Nabokov, Joyce and Philip Roth provide the clues.
MR. DARWIN'S SHOOTER. By Roger McDonald. (Atlantic Monthly, $25.) An intellectually curious novel in which a devout seaman's life is distorted by helping Darwin's research and later believing Darwin meant all along to prove there is no God.
MUSIC FOR TORCHING. By A. M. Homes. (Rob Weisbach/Morrow, $26.) Another provocative novel from the author who was almost banned in Britain, this time about a very odd couple in a middle-class suburbia that even Cheever never imagined.
THE MUSIC LESSON. By Katharine Weber. (Crown, $21.) An elegant, suspenseful novel about a New York art historian who becomes part of an I.R.A. plot to steal a Vermeer painting.
MY PEOPLE'S WALTZ. By Dale Ray Phillips. (Norton, $22.95.) A first collection of short stories, all concerning a family of bighearted sinners and their fortunes, which run to bad debts, bad love affairs and bad fishing trips but are always supported by a misguided capacity for hope.
THE NIGHT INSPECTOR. By Frederick Busch. (Harmony, $23.) A Union sniper in the Civil War, encased in a mask to hide his disfigurement from a wound that ended his Army career, makes unlikely friends with a famous author down on his luck who sounds a lot like Melville.
NOVEMBER 1916. The Red Wheel: Knot II. By Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) Disbelief is suspended in this huge novel as the mass of muddle and detail confronting ordinary Russians transcends the reader's knowledge of what really ensued.
OPENED GROUND: Selected Poems, 1966-1996. By Seamus Heaney. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A selection from earlier books, along with a few previously uncollected poems and his 1995 Nobel Prize address, that eloquently confirms Heaney's status as the most skillful and profound poet writing in English.
ORIGINAL BLISS. By A. L. Kennedy. (Knopf, $21.) A novel by a Glaswegian woman in which another Glaswegian woman, hungry for love and touch, enters into a dark romance with a pop-psych guru, more or less arranged, she understands, by divine providence.
OUT OF THE WOODS: Stories. By Chris Offutt. (Simon & Schuster, $21.) Lean, brilliant examinations of romantic obsessions whose love objects are not men and women but the whole state of Kentucky and in particular its landscape.
THE PECULIAR MEMORIES OF THOMAS PENMAN. By Bruce Robinson. (Overlook, $24.95.) This first novel by the writer and director of "Withnail and I" conveys an implausible empathy for a horrid British schoolboy searching for personal identity in the grim, unregretted 1950's.
A PRAYER FOR THE DYING. By Stewart O'Nan. (Holt, $22.) In a novel that explores both the nature of evil and the limits of human endurance, a Civil War veteran must save a small Midwestern town beset by fire and plague -- catastrophes with mutually exclusive solutions -- or go mad trying.
THE RIVER SOUND: Poems. By W. S. Merwin. (Knopf, $23.) In his 70's, a poet who has won most of the prizes is still at work on the grieving that adheres to daily life, though part of his project is now to discern how "the pain of learning what is lost" is "transformed into light at last."
THE SEA CAME IN AT MIDNIGHT. By Steve Erickson. (Bard/Avon, $23.) Several stories mesh together, or fail to do so, at the level of echo and metaphor rather than plot in this firmly apocalyptic novel at whose center is a dislocated girl who sells memories in a Japanese brothel.
THE SILENT DUCHESS. By Dacia Maraini. (Feminist Press, $19.95.) In this novel by one of Italy's most prominent writers, an 18th-century Sicilian noblewoman's refusal to speak is depicted in a slyly suspenseful story of grace and endurance.
SINGLE & SINGLE. By John le Carre. (Scribner, $26.) International finance and Oedipal tensions form the backdrop for the new novel by the fictional spymaster.
SMOKE SCREEN. By Vincent Patrick. (Morrow, $24.) Things are bad, and quickly get worse, for the cop and the crook who work together to foil Cuban biological blackmail in this novel by the author of "The Pope of Greenwich Village."
SONNY LISTON WAS A FRIEND OF MINE: Stories. By Thom Jones. (Little, Brown, $23.) His third collection of hard-nosed short stories features Jones's usual suspects: souls awash in unwanted circumstances and mind-altering drugs.
THE SOPRANOS. By Alan Warner. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A kind of gloomy farce by a young, talented Scottish novelist who has every sympathy with a pack of teen-age choirgirls down in the big city, where wishfully licentious outbreaks fill up, for a while, the vacancy of hope.
THE SOUND OF TRUMPETS. By John Mortimer. (Viking, $23.95.) The final third of the Rapstone Chronicles, in which Leslie Titmuss tries to sabotage the campaign of the local Tory candidate for Parliament.
SOUTH OF THE BORDER, WEST OF THE SUN. By Haruki Murakami. (Knopf, $22.) A pair of lovers, parted before they understand their fated mutual rightness, are forever unable to reclaim the past in this wise, discouraging novel.
THE TESSERACT. By Alex Garland. (Riverhead, $24.95.) A novel in the form of an often breathtaking narrative collage, set in the Philippines, in which the characters, stubborn in their belief in consequence and causation, can't figure out why things are happening to them.
THE THINGS WE DO TO MAKE IT HOME. By Beverly Gologorsky. (Random House, $22.95.) A first novel that concerns Vietnam veterans and their wives, all of them wounded, none of them beyond the author's skill or her generosity.
THE TRIUMPH OF LOVE. By Geoffrey Hill. (Houghton Mifflin, $22.) A book-length meditation in verse, weighted with private and literary allusion, that strives to honor the faith and innocence of the untold millions who have died violently in this awful century.
TURN OF THE CENTURY. By Kurt Andersen. (Random House, $24.95.) A novel about a "yoga-practicing Jew" and a "lapsed Unitarian" who are married and competing in the silicon rat race of the new millennium, where life is only slightly more crazy than the old one.
A WEREWOLF PROBLEM IN CENTRAL RUSSIA: And Other Stories. By Victor Pelevin. (New Directions, $23.95.) Antic, enigmatic satires by a young (37) Russian, in which metaphysical intuitions about the meaning of existence clash with the grotesque banalities of real life.
WEREWOLVES IN THEIR YOUTH: Stories. By Michael Chabon. (Random House, $22.95.) Chabon's characters inhabit more genre worlds than one but are surrounded, wherever they are, by a witty, resonant prose in which sharp observation often shades into metaphor.
WHILE I WAS GONE. By Sue Miller. (Knopf, $24.) This painstaking fictional meditation on marital fidelity attends to a woman's complex feelings about her husband and her no less complex feelings and fantasies about another man.
 
NONFICTION
AARON COPLAND: The Life and Work of an Uncommon Man. By Howard Pollack. (Holt, $37.50.) A professional, open-minded life of a great and durable (1900-90) American composer whose national convictions were central to his art.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON, AMERICAN. By Richard Brookhiser. (Free Press, $25.) A dramatic, compact biography that argues for virtues not always attributed to Hamilton, like intelligence, idealism, character and vision.
THE AMATEUR: An Independent Life of Letters. By Wendy Lesser. (Pantheon, $24.) Hardly anybody can do this anymore: personal essays that talk intelligently about some external subject while revealing (and creating) the author's personality. Lesser calls herself an "18th-century man of letters," and makes good on the boast.
AMERICAN BEACH: A Saga of Race, Wealth, and Memory. By Russ Rymer. (HarperCollins, $25.) An inquiry into race and politics, cultural erosion, power and powerlessness in two Florida communities, both once exclusively black.
ANGLOMANIA: A European Love Affair. By Ian Buruma. (Random House, $25.95.) In a work that is part intellectual history and part family memoir, the author investigates the exquisite blend of elitism and tolerance, vulgarity and gentility that makes Britain Britain.
ANOTHER LIFE: A Memoir of Other People. By Michael Korda. (Random House, $26.95.) A book editor recounts his life in publishing and how what he thought would be a gentlemanly pursuit of erudition was in reality the entertainment business.
BLACK HAWK DOWN: A Story of Modern War. By Mark Bowden. (Atlantic Monthly, $24.) A frightening immediacy characterizes this reporter's reconstruction of the bloody urban battle between American forces and Somali street fighters in Mogadishu in 1993.
BROADWAY BABIES SAY GOODNIGHT: Musicals Then and Now. By Mark Steyn. (Routledge, $27.) A history of the Broadway musical by an English critic who fears that while there may once have been no business like show business, it's not exactly thriving anymore.
THE BURDEN OF RESPONSIBILITY: Blum, Camus, Aron and the French Twentieth Century. By Tony Judt. (University of Chicago, $17.50.) A study celebrating three figures who resisted the fashionable Marxism of the Left Bank, Leon Blum, Albert Camus and Raymond Aron.
BYRON: Child of Passion, Fool of Fame. By Benita Eisler. (Knopf, $35.) A lively, well-informed biography shows that Byron's private life was even a bigger mess than anyone knew.
CAIRO: The City Victorious. By Max Rodenbeck. (Knopf, $27.50.) An affectionate description, historical and contemporary, of the huge city, the cities that were there before it and the people responsible for so much of its dusty charm.
CARELESS LOVE: The Unmaking of Elvis Presley. By Peter Guralnick. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) The second and final volume of Guralnick's remarkable biography of an amazing American emblem, a man who got everything he had ever wanted and died of it.
CLEAR SPRINGS: A Memoir. By Bobbie Ann Mason. (Random House, $25.) The author revisits her old Kentucky home, giving readers a glimpse at the inspiration for much of her fiction, and finds the sun still shines bright.
COLERIDGE: Darker Reflections, 1804-1834. By Richard Holmes. (Pantheon, $32.) The fine second half of the author's life of Coleridge, during which the poet's immense powers of thinking and talking contend with his recurrent paralysis of will.
THE COUSINS' WARS: Religion, Politics, and the Triumph of Anglo-America. By Kevin Phillips. (Basic Books, $32.50.) The demographics of basic attitudes inspire the author's view of British and American history, 1642-1865, as one continuing struggle between roundheads and cavaliers.
A COVERT LIFE. Jay Lovestone: Communist, Anti-Communist, and Spymaster. By Ted Morgan. (Random House, $29.95.) A journalist's life of this former Communist who later dedicated himself to squelching Communism worldwide, especially in labor unions, by any means that came to hand.
CREATING COLETTE. Volume 1: From Ingenue to Libertine, 1873-1913. By Claude Francis and Fernande Gontier. (Steerforth, $32.) How a girl from nowhere triumphed as author, lover, actress and Parisienne at the end of the belle epoque (and had plenty of fuel left for when the war was over).
CRIES UNHEARD: Why Children Kill. The Story of Mary Bell. By Gitta Sereny. (Metropolitan/Holt, $26.) A sensitive, probing examination of the Englishwoman who committed two murders in 1968, when she was 11 years old.
THE CRIME OF SHEILA McGOUGH. By Janet Malcolm. (Knopf, $22.) A journalist whose specialty is the vexed relationship between objective truth and narrative truth inspects a case in which a lawyer's incompetence at storytelling helped to land her in prison.
DARK CONTINENT: Europe's Twentieth Century. By Mark Mazower. (Knopf, $30.) A shrewd historian's contrarian interpretation that refuses to see liberal democracy as the norm and pre-1945 authoritarianism as the exception.
THE DIARY OF VASLAV NIJINSKY: Unexpurgated Edition. Edited by Joan Acocella. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) The first complete publication of the great dancer's diary, which reveals Nijinsky's descent into madness.
DREAMING WITH HIS EYES OPEN: A Life of Diego Rivera. By Patrick Marnham. (Knopf, $35.) An urbane and entertaining biography of the politically minded Mexican muralist whose work celebrated workers but whose acquaintances included Rockefellers as well as Trotsky.
THE ELEGANT UNIVERSE: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory. By Brian Greene. (Norton, $27.95.) A persuasive presentation of the 10-dimensional string theory that aspires to mediate between quantum mechanics and general relativity.
ELEGY FOR IRIS. By John Bayley. (St. Martin's, $22.95.) Humility, modesty, patience, humor and a certain self-conscious innocence adorn this memoir by a notable British critic about the descent into Alzheimer's disease of his wife of 42 years, the novelist Iris Murdoch.
FOR THE TIME BEING. By Annie Dillard. (Knopf, $22.) A meditation on the age-old question of how it could be that an all-powerful God permits evil to exist in the world.
FREEDOM FROM FEAR: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945. By David M. Kennedy. (Oxford University, $39.95.) A history of the Roosevelt era, from the New Deal to V-E Day, and the America he taught to believe that "the only thing we have to fear is fear itself."
GIRLFRIEND: Men, Women, and Drag. By Holly Brubach. Photographs by Michael James O'Brien. (Random House, $39.95.) A round-the-world examination of men who like to dress as women and what it all means.
A GOLFER'S LIFE. By Arnold Palmer with James Dodson. (Ballantine, $26.95.) An enjoyable autobiography, as unpretentious as its subject, by golf's most charismatic player.
THE GOOD MAN OF NANKING: The Diaries of John Rabe. By John Rabe. Edited by Erwin Wickert. (Knopf, $26.) The firsthand account by a German businessman (and Nazi supporter) of the Japanese slaughter in Nanjing in 1937 and of his rescue of thousands of Chinese.
GOTHAM: A History of New York City to 1898. By Edwin G. Burrows and Mike Wallace. (Oxford University, $49.95.) Two history professors at the City University of New York tell what happened in Manhattan from the ice age to the 20th century.
THE HAUNTED WOOD: Soviet Espionage in America -- the Stalin Era. By Allen Weinstein and Alexander Vassiliev. (Random House, $30.) An American scholar and a Russian journalist, with access to Soviet secret documents, confirm both the magnitude of Stalin's espionage effort and the guilt of certain long-suspect Americans.
HENRY F. DU PONT AND WINTERTHUR: A Daughter's Portrait. By Ruth Lord. (Yale University, $27.50.) The story of the founder of the Americana museum Winterthur by one of his daughters also gives a portrait of the upper class in the 20th century.
THE HIDDEN WORDS-WORTH: Poet, Lover, Rebel, Spy. By Kenneth R. Johnston. (Norton, $45.) A staggeringly industrious biography that shows Wordsworth as a more adventuresome sort than the nature lover of the schoolbooks.
HITLER. 1889-1936: Hubris. By Ian Kershaw. (Norton, $35.) A British professor of history concentrates on the development of Hitler's power and the grotesque match between a most-unlikely-to-succeed street ranter and a culturally advanced nation that rushed to embrace him.
HOME TOWN. By Tracy Kidder. (Random House, $25.95.) The author turns his investigative eye on Northampton, Mass., a city of 30,000 that most young natives leave when they grow up but that is changing its blue collars to white through the steady arrival of newcomers.
HOT SEAT: Theater Criticism for The New York Times, 1980-1993. By Frank Rich. (Random House, $39.95.) Some 330 reviews and essays from Rich's days as The Times's chief drama critic, during an era when the theater was not exactly flourishing.
THE HOUSE OF ROTHSCHILD: Money's Prophets, 1798-1848. By Niall Ferguson. (Viking, $34.95.) Both European and Jewish history are illuminated by this intensely detailed account of the rise and rise again of the financial house founded in Frankfurt by an obscure coin dealer.
THE IMMACULATE INVASION. By Bob Shacochis. (Viking, $27.95.) The author, a fiction writer, turns reporter in this account of an American military intervention that failed to intervene sufficiently in Haiti in 1994.
LATER AUDEN. By Edward Mendelson. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) The second volume of Auden's biography, covering his years during World War II and after, written by the poet's literary executor.
THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE. By Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist, formerly a correspondent, for The Times explains, with anecdotes as well as analyses, what the instant electronic global economy is and what it may take to live there.
THE LIFE AND TIMES OF PANCHO VILLA. By Friedrich Katz. (Stanford University, cloth, $85; paper, $29.95.) A huge biography, embodying decades of research, that supplies global and regional context to the Mexican outlaw and revolutionary general best known in this country for his raid on a New Mexico town in 1916.
LORDS OF THE HORIZONS: A History of the Ottoman Empire. By Jason Goodwin. (John Macrae/Holt, $32.50.) A journalist and travel writer illuminates the history and culture of a former seat of imperial splendor, from its humble origins to glittering eminence to lumbering decline.
THE MAKING OF THE MASTERS: Clifford Roberts, Augusta National, and Golf's Most Prestigious Tournament. By David Owen. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) An account of the innovator who founded golf's premier contest.
MAKING THE WISEGUYS WEEP: The Jimmy Roselli Story. By David Evanier. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) A life of the Italian crooner from Hoboken -- no, not that one -- who sang like a nightingale but whose powerful enemies threatened to send him to sleep with the fish.
THE MEME MACHINE. By Susan Blackmore. (Oxford University, $25.) An informed effort to popularize the theory that cultures are controlled by replicating units (memes) analogous to the genes of biological theory, and that their operations drive cultural evolution.
MORGAN: American Financier. By Jean Strouse. (Random House, $34.95.) An insightful, informative biography of the daring and resourceful money manipulator and art collector (1837-1913) who never apologized and never explained.
MY PILGRIM'S PROGRESS: Media Studies, 1950-1998. By George W. S. Trow. (Pantheon, $24.) This book-length study by a proven stargazer of cultural artifacts has less to do with media than with the loss of influence over much of anything by traditionally civilized people.
NANSEN: The Explorer as Hero. By Roland Huntford. (Barnes & Noble, paper, $19.95.) A biography, 12 years in the making, of the Norwegian explorer, diplomat and Nobel laureate who became the mentor to a generation of adventurers and whose life seemed to come from an Ibsen play.
NO GO THE BOGEYMAN: Scaring, Lulling, and Making Mock. By Marina Warner. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) A romp through a catalogue of scary stuff -- goblins, bugbears, orcs, witches, you name it -- that asks why we love to be frightened and finds that to utter our fears is to tame them.
ON SUNSET BOULEVARD: The Life and Times of Billy Wilder. By Ed Sikov. (Hyperion, $35.) This prodigiously researched chronicle charts its subject's rise from Berlin gigolo to Hollywood director, one gifted -- and contrarian -- enough to cast Ginger Rogers as a 12-year-old nymphet.
THE ORCHID THIEF. By Susan Orlean. (Random House, $25.) The first book-length narrative by a stylish, tightly focused journalist whose hero is an orchid thief but whose real subject is monomania.
OUR KIND OF PEOPLE: Inside America's Black Upper Class. By Lawrence Otis Graham. (HarperCollins, $25.) An ambitious, occasionally reverent anatomy of the segment of black society that has experienced generations of material well-being and produced a number of engaging organizations and personalities.
OUT FOR GOOD: The Struggle to Build a Gay Rights Movement in America. By Dudley Clendinen and Adam Nagourney. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) Written by an editorial writer and a reporter at The New York Times, this is a rich, valuable history of gay activism from Stonewall through the AIDS epidemic.
THE PITY OF WAR. By Niall Ferguson. (Basic Books, $30.) The traditional views on the causes of World War I are called into question, and the author suggests that had England stayed at home, the world might be a different place today.
PLAYING FOR KEEPS: Michael Jordan and the World He Made. By David Halberstam. (Random House, $24.95.) Journalist and social historian, Halberstam illuminates Jordan's career and its consequences for the world with insight, balance, analysis, pertinent anecdotes and well-dug facts.
PREEMPTING THE HOLOCAUST. By Lawrence L. Langer. (Yale University, $22.50.) A collection of essays that reiterates this scholar's contention that the Nazi murder of the Jews is "an unforgivable crime" that is "beyond guilt and atonement."
THE PRIDE OF HAVANA: A History of Cuban Baseball. By Roberto Gonzlez Echevarria. (Oxford University, $35.) A chronicle and a celebration of the national pastime of Cuba, lovingly told by a professor of Hispanic literature at Yale who is also a semipro catcher.
PRIMO LEVI: Tragedy of an Optimist. By Myriam Anissimov. (Overlook, $37.95.) A serious, lively, conscientiously researched biography of the distinguished Italian writer whose optimism and rationalism were not totally suppressed by his experience as an inmate of Auschwitz.
A PRIVATE LIFE OF HENRY JAMES: Two Women and His Art. By Lyndall Gordon. (Norton, $30.) A biography that pierces the myth the novelist built around his life by delving into the lives of Minny Temple and Constance Fenimore Woolson, two women who inspired him and became the models for some of his heroines.
PUSHKIN'S BUTTON. By Serena Vitale. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) An Italian scholar's vivid, meticulous account of the impulsive Russian poet's death in a duel in 1837, and of the society that often encouraged people to die that way.
A RAGE TO LIVE: A Biography of Richard and Isabel Burton. By Mary S. Lovell. (Norton, $39.95.) A lucid, efficient, pro-Burton account of an eminent Victorian couple who offended nearly everyone by their intrepidity, self-regard and brass. The news is this: She didn't burn his diaries.
RAY CHARLES: Man and Music. By Michael Lydon. (Riverhead, $27.95.) A tight and detailed biography of the rhythm and blues legend better known as "the Genius."
READING THE HOLOCAUST. By Inga Clendinnen. (Cambridge University, cloth, $49.95; paper, $14.95.) A fresh approach by an Australian anthropologist who ventures into forbidding areas like the mentalities of the perpetrators and the licenses granted to artistic representation.
REPORTING LIVE. By Lesley Stahl. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) The author captures the strains of belonging to the breakthrough generation of women in network news, first as a tough political reporter, later as a fixture on "60 Minutes."
REPORTING VIETNAM. Part One: American Journalism 1959-1969; Part Two: American Journalism 1969-1975. (Library of America, $35 each.) Writing by many adept correspondents who tried to capture the suffering, unredeemed by its consequences, of the war in Vietnam.
RITUALS OF BLOOD: Consequences of Slavery in Two American Centuries. By Orlando Patterson. (Civitas/Counterpoint, $29.50.) A scholar argues that the destructive internal dynamics of the black family, though created by slavery, are largely within the power of blacks (especially black men) to ameliorate.
SHAKESPEARE: A Life. By Park Honan. (Oxford University, $30.) Admirable collection, synthesis and judgment exercised on the existing data of Shakespeare's life and the life of the times around him; more is known than lots of people think.
SHAKING A LEG: Collected Writings. By Angela Carter. (Penguin, paper, $15.95.) Incisive cultural journalism by the British novelist that, among other delicious subversions, invokes the Greeks to argue for wearing high heels with long skirts.
SHOW ME A HERO: A Tale of Murder, Suicide, Race, and Redemption. By Lisa Belkin. (Little, Brown, $25.) A report, by a writer for The New York Times, on the polarizing conflict of 1988 that followed a judge's order to build 200 units of low-cost subsidized housing in Yonkers.
TALES OF THE LAVENDER MENACE: A Memoir of Liberation. By Karla Jay. (Basic Books, $25.) A memoir by a professor of English at Pace University of her years as a radical lesbian activist from 1968 to 1972 that combines hilarity and poignant reflection.
THROWIM WAY LEG: Tree-Kangaroos, Possums, and Penis Gourds -- On the Track of Unknown Mammals in Wildest New Guinea. By Tim Flannery. (Atlantic Monthly, $25.) A scientist's enthralling record of a life with unknown animals, untamed people and unimaginable landscapes.
THE TIMES OF MY LIFE: And My Life With The Times. By Max Frankel. (Random House, $29.95.) A tough, smart, scrupulous account of more than 40 years at this newspaper by its former executive editor, from which the reader can learn a lot about what makes newspapers go.
A TRAITOR'S KISS: The Life of Richard Brinsley Sheridan, 1751-1816. By Fintan O'Toole. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A biography of a many-minded man who proceeded from playwriting and theater management to politics but failed to achieve high office, O'Toole argues, because he was a self-made man and an Irishman.
TRUTH: Four Stories I Am Finally Old Enough to Tell. By Ellen Douglas. (Algonquin, $18.95.) The first nonfiction book by the venerable Southern novelist examines the events that provided themes for her fiction.
TURKEY UNVEILED: A History of Modern Turkey. By Nicole Pope and Hugh Pope. (Overlook, $29.95.) A revealing guide, by two journalists, to the culture and politics of a prosperous, complex nation much beheld by tourists but otherwise much ignored by the West.
UNWEAVING THE RAINBOW: Science, Delusion and the Appetite for Wonder. By Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) An illustrious zoologist rakes the ignorant with fire at length before switching to his real metier, the conveyance of scientific ideas with beauty, clarity and affection.
VERA: (Mrs. Vladimir Nabokov). By Stacy Schiff. (Random House, $27.95.) A thoughtful biography of Nabokov's wife, protector, dogsbody and perfect reader that opens up a 52-year marriage without pretending to explain every enigma.
WALKING ON WATER: Black American Lives at the Turn of the Twenty-first Century. By Randall Kenan. (Knopf, $30.) A nonfiction book by a black novelist and short-story writer that records the varied voices of black people across the United States.
THE WAY OF THE WORLD: From the Dawn of Civilizations to the Eve of the Twenty-first Century. By David Fromkin. (Knopf, $25.) Everything there was, in 222 pages of text that set forth eight stages of universal history and are firmly Western and progressive in approach: things are better now than when they started out.
WHAT WE OWE TO EACH OTHER. By T. M. Scanlon. (Belknap/Harvard University, $35.) A treatise arguing a set of basic principles for moral conduct by the Harvard philosopher.
WINSTON AND CLEMENTINE: The Personal Letters of the Churchills. Edited by Mary Soames. (Houghton Mifflin, $35.) The private correspondence of one of the century's most fascinating couples, edited by their youngest daughter, traces the "love & honour" of one of "the gt romances" through the "colour & jostle of the high-way" of the 20th century.
WOMAN: An Intimate Geography. By Natalie Angier. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A personal celebration of the female of the species -- the glory, the rapture, the mystery of being a woman -- written from the point of view of a member of that sex (a science reporter for The New York Times) but which may prove instructive for the other one as well.
YEARS OF RENEWAL. By Henry Kissinger. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) The national security adviser and Secretary of State in the Nixon and Ford Administrations defends himself -- no surprise there -- while confessing that Watergate was a grave setback for coherent, effective policy.
YOU'RE MISSIN' A GREAT GAME: From Casey to Ozzie, the Magic of Baseball and How to Get It Back. By Whitey Herzog and Jonathan Pitts. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) The plain-spoken former manager opines on the old days of baseball and how the game should be overhauled.
 
MYSTERIES
THE BIG BAD CITY. By Ed McBain. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) The man with the golden ear for urban street voices delivers another pitch-perfect 87th Precinct police procedural, in which a nun, a psycho and a burglar who bakes cookies for his victims figure in a story about life in a city where "things were happening all the time, all over the place."
EASY MONEY. By Jenny Siler. (John Macrae/Holt, $24.) The offbeat but articulate heroine of this lethal debut thriller is a young drug courier, schooled in the trade by her dope-running father in Key West, who is chased clear across the country by sinister agents intent on retrieving a computer disk with secret evidence of an ugly Vietnam War conspiracy.
FLAT LAKE IN WINTER. By Joseph T. Klempner. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $24.95.) This grave and thoughtful legal thriller, set in a cold, remote corner of the Adirondacks, challenges a New York criminal lawyer to come up with a defense that will hold off an almost certain death conviction for a young man accused of murdering his grandparents.
IN A DRY SEASON. By Peter Robinson. (Twilight/Avon, $24.) In a mystery with melancholy echoes from the past, Inspector Alan Banks sets out to identify a human skeleton unearthed when a flooded village emerges from the mud of a dried-up reservoir in the Yorkshire dales, only to discover some deeper secrets buried in the rural countryside during World War II.
MARY, MARY. By Julie Parsons. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) A middle-aged widow who returns to her native Ireland to care for her dying mother takes vengeance on the sadistic killer who raped and murdered her daughter, in a dark, psychologically dense first novel that takes the suspense thriller into emotional territory where it rarely dares to go.
A SIGHT FOR SORE EYES. By Ruth Rendell. (Crown, $24.) The worship of beauty leads to murder and madness, as this English mistress of suspense charts a collision course for two preternaturally beautiful teen-agers: an unloved boy who grew up to be a sociopath and the overprotected girl who grew up to be his perfect victim.
 
SCIENCE FICTION
BLACK LIGHT. By Elizabeth Hand. (Harper Prism, $25.) As she did in "Waking the Moon," Hand brings ancient mythology to terrifying life. Once again, innocents are at risk when heedless gods resume the age-old struggle between the forces of reason and passion.
THE EXTREMES. By Christopher Priest. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) This serious novel about violence in our time subjects its heroine -- and the reader -- to a series of harrowing scenarios before achieving a surprising yet (on its own terms) believable happy ending. A remarkable achievement.
PARABLE OF THE TALENTS. By Octavia E. Butler. (Seven Stories, $24.95.) Continuing the story she began in "Parable of the Sower," Butler finds pathos and hope in the life of a 21st-century prophet who, at great personal cost, preaches that the true test of a religion is whether the solace it offers conforms with the nature of the universe we live in.
VIGILANT. By James Alan Gardner. (Eos/Avon, paper, $5.99.) The adolescent heroine of this breathless romp overcomes feelings of personal inadequacy to save her world. Despite the trappings of science fiction, this is wish-fulfillment fantasy of a high order.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Edward Fella)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: HTN (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (94%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); POETRY (90%); LITERATURE (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (73%); HISTORY (72%); WORLD WAR I (67%); FESTIVALS (64%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (60%); ORGANIZED CRIME (51%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); 

PERSON: IAN MCEWAN (57%); ELMORE JOHN LEONARD JR (55%); JOHN HOYER UPDIKE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



147 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: In the Region / Long Island;
Plans Afoot to Stem Flight of the Young Labor Pool

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

 BODY:
AFTER looking for a year and a half for a house in the East Meadow area where they grew up and where their parents still live, James and Jane Klobus finally found one -- a 45-year-old four-bedroom ranch priced at $190,000. They found the property through Atanas Realty in Williston Park.
Mr. Klobus works as a New York City police detective, Mrs. Klobus as a trader for a New York City money manager. Although they will have to invest more money and "sweat equity" to renovate the house, "we bought location," Mr. Klobus said. 
 "This is where we grew up and this is where our parents live," he explained.
With the return of a strong economy and a vibrant housing market, finding moderately priced housing has again become a problem for first-time buyers like the Klobuses.
But couples and singles who are not ready to purchase a house and want to rent are affected as well. Very often they are the entry-level employees corporations are seeking out. "First-time hires are renters, not buyers," said Marie Montchal, vice president of the relocation division at Daniel Gale Real Estate. "But apartments on Long Island are very, very limited. It's like looking for gold."
Amy Engel, who works as a legislative affairs administrator at the Long Island Association, a business group, said the high cost of housing had persuaded several of her friends to leave Long Island because they can live better elsewhere on their salaries.
In 1994, her first year out of college, she lived with her mother, Mrs. Engel said. "I looked and looked for an apartment but I couldn't find a legal one I could afford," she added. After renting a studio apartment for $500 a month in a private home in Islandia, Mrs. Engel said, she shared a $1,000-a-month apartment in Oakdale with her future husband, Matthew, a computer programmer. They later moved to Bayport, paying $1,100 for two bedrooms.
Now married, the Engels live in Holtsville in a two-bedroom ranch Mrs. Engel inherited from her grandmother. Were it not for that unusual situation, "we never would have been able to scrape enough money together for a down payment especially with our school loans, and we'd still be renting," Mrs. Engel said.
Although the Klobuses and the Engels solved their housing problems, there is growing concern in the business community that housing costs are driving young people away. The unemployment rate on Long Island is now 2.9 percent, one of the lowest in the country.
"Part of the labor shortage stems from the fact that young people who were educated on Long Island are leaving because of the cost of living, and when you dig behind that phrase that means the cost of housing," said Matthew T. Crosson, president of the Long Island Association.
The Commack-based association, which is the region's principal business and civic organization, recently announced a nine-point program that Mr. Crosson said could help address some of the Island's housing needs, especially the need for moderately priced rental housing.
The plan outlines ways to stimulate construction of apartments that would rent from $500 to $800 a month. But it also proposes new ideas for bringing for-sale housing within reach of people who otherwise would find it difficult to buy a house.
As a start, Mr. Crosson said, his association will press for new local zoning ordinances that would encourage developers to build less costly rental housing in return for receiving a higher density.
On the state level, the organization intends to lobby for legislation that would provide tax incentives for rehabilitated rental housing. It would also call for changes in the state building code to allow residences to be built over stores in downtown areas.
"The group we are trying to target, the young people coming out of college, don't want to go out and buy a home right away," said Mitchell Pally, vice president for legislative and economic affairs at the Long Island Association. "We all rented first, so we have to go to all the towns and convince them to change the zoning where appropriate to allow rental housing to be built."
PROPOSED sites include underutilized industrial and commercial properties. The plan also recommends that some of the rental apartments be built on former state mental hospital sites that were recently awarded to private developers who made the highest purchase offers to the state.
Cooperation of developers would be required and towns would have to rezone the properties to permit high density residential construction. But the potential would be huge even if only a portion of the sites are used for building apartments, said John Racanelli, a commercial developer who is the chairman of the Long Island Association's building and real estate committee.
The Pilgrim State Psychiatric Center site in Islip covers 655 acres, and the Long Island Development Center site in Melville and Dix Hills has a total of 408 acres.
If no steps are taken to alleviate the shortage of moderately priced housing, businesses that could expand on Long Island might decide to expand elsewhere and possibly leave altogether, said Mr. Racanelli whose committee, which is composed of planners, developers and nonprofit groups among others, developed the nine-point plan.
"But I think you can go beyond business and look at the broader arguments," he added." If you look at the tremendous resources we invest in primary and secondary education only to see the fruits of that investment go to other areas, then the argument can be made that our community is depriving itself of its own investment."
Some corporations say they are not yet experiencing problems in finding employees. "We haven't had major difficulties," said Len David, vice president of human resources at Henry Schein, a Melville-based distributor of health products.
But high-technology companies, which must compete for a specialized workforce, are noticing a shortage.
"There are just not enough kids coming out of school with computer-science degrees," said Deborah Coughlin, senior vice president for human resources at Computer Associates International, the Islandia software developer. "It used to be resumes would come to me, but now I have to be much more creative about recruiting," she noted.
Competition for technical talent is only one of the problems in filling job openings, said Carole DeMayo, who is senior director for human resources at the Holtsville-based Symbol Technologies, a supplier of data-collection equipment, such as bar-code scanners.
"When you bring recently graduated students into the workforce, they want rentals and that has become a real issue on Long Island," Ms. DeMayo said.
The Long Island Regional Planning Board estimates that, of the Island's approximately 961,000 dwelling units, only about 43,500 are market-rate rental apartments.
"Long Island has the highest owner-occupancy of any metropolitan area in the country," said Roy Fedelem, principal planner at the board. "And people still want the Island to stay the way it is. The trend is toward lowering densities, not increasing them."
But others say that attitudes are beginning to change. "I believe that people have begun to realize that their children can't afford to live here any more and that the level of concern has reached a point that they are willing to take on the problem and deal with it," said Mr. Crosson of the Long Island Association.
ALTHOUGH the association is focusing on the production of moderately priced rental housing, it is also supporting initiatives for homeownership set out in proposed legislation co-sponsored by State Senator Kenneth P. LaValle, Republican of Selden, and State Assemblyman Paul E. Harenberg, Democrat of Oakdale. The bill, which was first introduced in 1991, but so far only passed the Assembly, would allow property taxes on new construction to be phased in over five years for first-time purchasers.
Other proposals include stepping up efforts to counsel employers and employees about available housing options. "Things like down payment assistance, mortgage counseling and new construction programs," said Jim Morgo, president of the nonprofit Long Island Housing Partnership. The partnership not only sponsors and develops subsidized for-sale housing for first-time buyers who meet income guidelines, but also provides counseling to would-be home buyers at all income levels.
As part of the Long Island Association initiative, Mr. Morgo said, he will be working with Fannie Mae, the nation's largest provider of funds for home mortgages, to set up programs for individual employers who want to assist employees in buying a house.
That assistance can run the gamut from "brownbag seminars," at which employees receive counseling, to actual loans or grants for down payments and closing costs, said Naomi Baer, director of Fannie Mae's New York Partnership office.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amy and Michael Engel at their home in Holtsville. They would still be looking, she said, had she not inherited the ranch from her grandmother.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (54%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (54%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAX CREDITS; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COST OF LIVING (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); TRENDS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



148 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Private Investors Replace REIT's in Office Market

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
OVER the last year, as real estate investment trusts moved to the sidelines as aggressive purchasers of office buildings, private development firms, pension funds and foreign investors have moved in to keep the pace of buying in the state at a healthy, albeit reduced, level.
Investors say they are not only trying to capitalize on the absence of REIT's, but on the availability of capital, lower purchase prices and still-attractive interest rates to acquire buildings in the 11-county northern and central New Jersey office market. 
 "Buying activity, which slowed at the end of 1998, has picked up in the first quarter of this year as prices, which had been increasing, became more acceptable to buyers," said Patrick Murphy, executive director of the New Jersey operation of Insignia/ESG, a national commercial brokerage. The office is in Saddle Brook.
His firm reports that Class A buildings sold for an average of $150 a square foot, down from $170 a square foot the same time last year, and that Class B properties sold for $90 to $140 a square foot, down from $100 to $150.
So far this year 19 buildings, totaling 4.5 million square feet, have been sold for a total of $440 million, according to Cushman & Wakefield, another national commercial brokerage. For the same time last year 18 buildings, totaling just over 7 million square feet, were sold for a total of $933 million.
Sales this round included a 440,000-square-foot building in Newark, a 286,000-square-foot portfolio of four buildings in Hackensack and Parsippany, a 128,000-square-foot building in Englewood Cliffs and a 193,665-square-foot structure in Edison.
The difference is that the sales today comprise many smaller Class B buildings rather than the large trophy buildings of the past. Average sale prices are down, but "that is reflective more of the quality of the assets than of lack of investor interest," said David Bernhaut, senior director of the Financial Services Group at Cushman & Wakefield in East Rutherford, adding that activity should "stay on course for the rest of the year."
With $1 billion worth of buildings on the market, he added, "we should hit the same $1.8 billion in sales as last year," he added. Mr. Bernhaut noted, however, that the pace might slow if interest rates continued to rise.
REIT's purchased most of the larger "trophy" buildings during their buying spree of the last two years. "They outbid everyone else and drove traditional investors out of the market," said Mr. Murphy.
Their buying spree ended in April 1998, seven months after REIT stocks tumbled. At the same time their cost of capital increased and the commercial mortgage-backed securities market tightened, shutting off a main source of financing.
Some REIT's are maintaining their properties, while others, alone or with partners, are developing new buildings, said W. Mark Twentyman, vice president at Alexander Summer, a commercial brokerage in Paramus. Still others are or will soon sell some of their properties to raise cash for other ventures, he said.
Sellers also include corporate owners as well as investors who purchased office structures two or three years ago. Despite lower sales prices, "no one is selling at a loss," said Andrew J. Merin, executive director of the Financial Services Group at Cushman & Wakefield.
Meanwhile, rents are not rising as rapidly as they had in the last two years because in some areas the pent-up demand for space has been satisfied, speculative construction has produced a supply of new buildings and corporate reshuffling has added sublet space to the market, brokers said.
Mr. Merin said that although the 10 to 15 percent increases of the past are gone, longterm leases and investors still can raise rents to current levels. According to Cushman & Wakefield, the average overall asking rent was $21.79 for the first quarter, against $20.19 for last year's first quarter.
In the first quarter 445,957 more square feet were put on the market than were absorbed. That did not affect the market's overall vacancy rate, which was 12.3 percent compared to 12.4 percent a year ago, according to Cushman & Wakefield. But it did affect markets like Parsippany in Morris County and the Route I-78 corridor, where new construction and sublet space has been put on the market.
In Parsippany, vacancy rates for Class A space have risen from 9.9 percent in the first quarter last year to 18.5 percent in this year's first quarter; in the I-78 corridor, the rise was from 4.2 percent to 23.2, according to Cushman & Wakefield.
Mr. Merin said that while he initially was concerned that the buildup of space would slow leasing, that activity "is heating up again." And Mr. Murphy of Insignia/ESG added that "the prognosis for New Jersey's office market is good."
SUCH thinking has stoked many recent sales deals. Having been beaten out by REIT's for the Class A properties, pension funds and their advisers, like LaSalle Partners, are back on the move. Last month LaSalle paid $32 million for a 193,665-square-foot mostly occupied building at 333 Thornall Street in Edison. It is one of the few Class A buildings to be sold so far this year.
Much of the buying is by private companies. Later this month, for instance, Kushner Companies, based in Florham Park, is expected to close on its $10.5 million purchase of a 440,000-square-foot building at 520 Broad Street in downtown Newark. The seller is Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company, which is vacating the 20-story building and going out of business this summer.
"All conditions of the state's office market are up and will continue to go up, and Newark is a niche market that we have faith in," said Charles Kushner, president of the development firm bearing his name. For the company, better known for its residential projects, the acquisition "is also a way for us to diversify," Mr. Kushner said, adding that with the REIT's out of the buying picture "there are more opportunities for private companies."
The Kushner Companies will buy the Newark building with its own equity. "We have the capital and can move quickly," Mr. Kushner said. "Unlike REIT's which would have to do much explaining to their stockholders on the merits of the Newark market, my stockholders are my wife and kids."
Mr. Kushner said the Newark building represented the kind of building his company was looking to buy -- a quality structure in a good location. The Broad Street building, which has an 850-car parking garage, is one block from the minor leaque sports complex now under way in the city, and two blocks from both the New Jersey Performing Arts Center and Interstate 280.
With this building and others "we are taking a longterm view that we can make improvements and, over time, increase rents," Mr. Kushner said.
Denholtz Associates, a private concern based in Rahway, has also increased its buying activity since REIT's left the scene last year. Since last December, using money from private investors and pension funds, Denholtz purchased four properties totaling 1.1 million square feet of space, and is under contract to buy an additional 500,000 square feet of space, said Steven Denholtz, managing partner of the company.
Mr. Denhholtz said his company was acquiring Class B multitenant buildings because it could buy at low prices and with low interest rates. Even if market rents are not increasing, he said his company can raise rents at the buildings, which are 20 to 30 percent below current levels, as leases expire or empty space is filled.
For example, a building that Denholtz bought last December is a 128,000-square-foot building at 270 Sylvan Avenue in Englewood Cliffs that was 70 percent occupied. The company, which is improving the lobby and mechanical systems at the building, has since increased the occupancy level to 90 percent. Financing for the $13 million acquisition came from a group of private investors headed by Jerold Zaro, a lawyer in Ocean Township.
And last month the company purchased a portfolio of four buildings, together totaling 286,000 square feet, from the Principal Financial Group, of Des Moines. The insurer had foreclosed on the mostly occupied buildings, three in Parsippany and one in Hackensack, in the early 1990's. The $26 million purchase was financed by investors other than the Zaro group.
Mr. Denholtz said the purchase was a good longterm investment because 20 to 25 percent of the leases will expire each year at the buildings, which will be improved. In turn, he said, his company will increase rents, now 22 percent below the market, to current levels..
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kushner Companies is buying the Mutual Benefit Life building in downtown Newark, left. Denholtz Associates bought and increased to 90 percent the occupancy of Englewood Cliffs building, above. (Alan Schindler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE DAVID DAVIS (94%); PATRICK J MURPHY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



149 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 8; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Does Champagne Have a Y2K Problem?

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN 

 BODY:
DEBBIE BRUNNER placed several bottles of wine and liquor on the checkout counter at Crazy Billy's Wines and Spirits in Deer Park, telling the checkout clerk it was for a communion party.
"I was going to buy either wine or champagne, and I decided on wine," said Ms. Brunner of Deer Park. 
 Asked if she planned to buy champagne to ring in the new millennium on Dec. 31, she replied: "I'll probably buy it the day before."
"If I were you, I'd come in before December," said Jamel Barns, Crazy Billy's wine manager, overhearing the conversation.
"There's going to be a shortage," the checkout clerk explained.
"I guess I'd better stock up," Ms. Brunner said.
Minutes earlier, another customer, Linda M. Gedachian of Hampton Bays, told Mr. Barns that she planned to "stock up in October" for her New Year's Eve champagne.
"I'm telling you as a friend," Mr. Barns said, "if you wait until then, I might be sold out" of the better champagne.
He added that champagne sales have quadrupled in recent months and that whatever was available in the fall might be priced much higher.
But Ted Conklin, owner of the American Hotel in Sag Harbor, brushed aside predictions of shortages, calling it a "media event."
"I wouldn't say there is any need for panic buying," he insisted. "There's an awful lot of great champagne that's made. The hoarding issue is more media-driven than anything else. Ninety-nine percent of this is hype."
Not according to Steven Goldstein, general manager of Park Avenue Merchants, a distributor of Moet & Chandon champagne.
"We've seen a 40 percent increase in sales since January, compared with the first four months of last year," he said. "And our May sales are running ahead of that."
Matthew Green, the company's director of wine sales, said people were buying now in anticipation of shortages later in the year.
"In trying to secure more wine for our customers, we have found that people throughout the country are doing the same thing," he said. "We're trying to bring in whatever we can get because we know we will be able to sell it. The buying public is consuming more champagne. People are in a celebratory mood, the stock market is good and the economy is strong. This is going to be the greatest New Year's Eve celebration in anyone's lifetime."
Asked how much of the shortage was hype, Mr. Goldstein replied: "Champagne is made from an agricultural crop. There are only a certain number of grapes that can be produced. And the sentiment in the marketplace is that because of the millennium, it will be difficult to supply the demand that is out there."
Steven Faerstein, assistant food and beverage director at the Garden City Hotel, said his wine vendors had told him that "whatever shipments of champagne we are going to need for the millennium, we should have in house by next month. I have never had that kind of pressure before."
"Everyone who is going to be out on New Year's Eve is going to be drinking champagne," he continued. "Because of that, people are going crazy and starting to stockpile it -- individuals, hotels, restaurants, bars. Some brands are still available, but others are not."
Mr. Faerstein said that since the beginning of the year, some of his vendors had refused to sell him as much as he wanted to buy. He said the allocations were based on previous sales and what other products the hotel buys from them.
Brian Rosenberg, the Garden City Hotel's director of promotions and advertising, said the hotel was "trying to stock up as much as possible" on the finest champagnes. But he said one of the most popular, top-of-the-line prestige brands, Cristal by Louis Roederer, was very difficult to get.
"If I called my supplier and asked for 10 cases of Dom Perignon, I'd get it," he said. "If I called asking for Cristal, he would laugh at me."
Cristal has become so difficult to get, said Mr. Rosenberg, that the hotel stopped selling it at its nightclub, Dallenger, two months ago. Before that, a bottle of Cristal was selling for $225.
"It is our No. 1 selling champagne and we're saving what we have for New Year's Eve," he said. "We want to do all in our power to serve our customers who are going to spend the millennium weekend with us. Last year, we sold over 100 bottles of champagne on New Years Eve. I can't even comprehend the volume we're going to go through this year."
At Pop's Wine and Spirits in Island Park, "millennium mania" has set in, according to the owner, Nick G. Poulos.
"We're seeing a dramatic increase in the sales of upper-level and esoteric brands of champagne," he said. "People are stocking up and the prices are going up. Most of the upper-level brands, like Dom Perignon and Cristal, are now tightly allocated. But we started to plan last year and began stocking up, anticipating they would be hard to get."
Sales of top-shelf brands are up at least 200 percent since January, he said, and sales of less expensive champagne, such as Moet & Chandon's White Star, are up by about 20 percent.
Thomas O. Morgan, marketing director of the Lenz Winery in Peconic, said his champagne sales are up 40 to 45 percent.
"Our champagne has always been in demand and this year we're having a hard time keeping ahead of demand," he said.
Demand for Sagpond Vineyards' Christian Wolffer Cuvee sparkling wines also regularly outstrips demand, according to the general manger and wine maker, Roman Roth. The vineyard, which is in the Hamptons, sells to most of the liquor stores in the Hamptons. Its sparkling wine sells for $27.99 and Mr. Roth said no additional bottles were made this year. He said he expected it to be sold out by October.
Mr. Poulos said he expected it to "get really crazy in here in September when people will be thinking of giving champagne for Christmas gifts. A lot of distributors are coming to us and asking if we want to stock up on a particular brand because they anticipate price increases of 10 to 30 percent in September or October."
He added that he believed the reports of a shortage were "fabricated because the supply is there. But we're stocking up on Dom Perignon, which we normally wouldn't do, because if the 3,000 to 4,000 stores in the U.S. that carry it are also stocking up, that strains the system. It's hard to imagine that we'll have a tough time finding champagne to sell for New Year's Eve. But we may find ourselves having to buy new supplies in November and December at higher prices."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Retailers are warning that it may be hard to find champagne for New Year's Eve. Jamel Barnes, wine manager at Crazy Bill's in Deer Park. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CHAMPAGNE; SHORTAGES; NEW YEAR; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (93%); MILLENNIUM (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); WINE (78%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (72%); RETAIL SALES (71%); RETAILERS (71%); 

PERSON: AIN, STEWART DEBBIE BRUNNER (66%); JAMEL BARNS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



150 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In /Williamsbridge, the Bronx;
Neighborhood Striving for a Better Future

BYLINE: By MAGGIE GARB 

 BODY:
LUTHER JONES likes to call Williamsbridge the crossroads of New York City. Although the Bronx neighborhood is nearly an hour's subway ride to midtown, it is just minutes away from several of the city's major thoroughfares and a 20-minute drive from New Jersey, Westchester, Long Island or upper Manhattan.
Moreover, added Mr. Jones, a retired respiratory therapist who has lived in Williamsbridge for nearly 30 years, crossroads is an apt description of the mile-square community that is struggling to remake itself in the wake of more than a decade of high crime, drug sales and open prostitution. 
 "For years, the city wrote this area off as a welfare area," he said. "The people here fought back, we weren't going to let that happen. If you come up here now, you see that the area is kept up. People take care of their houses, their lawns, plant gardens."
A working-class community since the 1920's, Williamsbridge sits just east of the Bronx River Parkway between Gun Hill Road and 233d Street. Its eastern boundary zigzags along Boston Road, Eastchester Road and Laconia Avenue.
Settled by Eastern European Jewish immigrants and others from Ireland and Poland in the 1920's and 30's, the area experienced a rapid demographic change in the late 60's and 70's as blacks from Harlem and, later, Caribbean immigrants moved to the neighborhood. Newer residents include many Jamaicans and a growing Korean population.
Many longtime residents say that banks and real estate brokers reacted to the change by redlining the community in the 70's, rejecting mortgage applications and refusing to advertise neighborhood houses. "For a number of years, the real estate industry redlined the district," said Albert Tuitt, a retired salesman and former chairman of the northern Bronx chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. who moved into the area in 1960.
But many of the neighborhood's older black residents remained, creating a stable community of homeowners and a core of neighborhood activists, said Mr. Jones. "We were here when the rest of the neighborhood was white and we were here when the city forgot us."
Mr. Tuitt, a former member of Community School Board 11, which covers the neighborhood, added: "We're continually pushing to improve things here. We meet with the local police commander, we push for increases in the school construction budget."
Williamsbridge is an area of moderately priced one- and two-family houses. About half a dozen late-19th-century frame cottages remain along the tree-lined streets west of White Plains Road, a legacy of a tiny community of French tapestry weavers who settled along the Bronx River in the 1890's.
Most of Williamsbridge's houses are less than 40 years old, built when developers sliced up farmland in the postwar construction boom. In 1947, when Russell John, a retired New York City fireman turned real estate broker, bought his house on 221st Street, many of the neighborhood's side streets were dirt roads and, he said, a potato farm covered most of the south side of 221st Street.
A FEW years later, Mr. John said, the potato farmer built four houses on his property and by the early 50's, most of the rolling fields nearby were blanketed with new frame and brick houses.
"Anything that was halfway open, they dropped some houses in there," Mr. John said. "And it's just been growing like that ever since."
Housing prices ballooned in the mid-80's, plummeted in the early 90's and have recently recovered to levels of the early 80's, say area brokers. Prices are highest for houses a short walk from the elevated-train line, which carries the 5 and 2 trains up White Plains Road, said Haniff Baksh, a broker with ERA Besmatch Real Estate.
One- and two-family attached houses sell for $150,000 to $200,000, said Mr. John, owner of RJ Realty. Three-family houses run from $185,000 to $250,000, he added.
Many recent immigrants, struggling to make mortgage payments, have renovated basements and garages into illegal apartments, renting small one- and two-bedroom units to friends and family members, said Hugh Darby of Hugh Darby Realty. Rapid population increases in the last few years pushed up rents of the illegal apartments, which range from $500 for a one bedroom to as much as $800 for a two-bedroom, he said.
Expanding population has also placed new pressure on the neighborhood schools. Mr. Tuitt noted that the schools are overcrowded with makeshift classrooms in auditoriums and schoolyards.
Close to 90 percent of third-graders at the neighborhood's three k-5 elementary schools performed at or above grade level on standardized math tests last year. In reading tests, 46 percent of the students at P.S. 21, 46.7 percent at P.S. 41 and 44.5 percent at P.S.112 scored at or above grade level.
The local public high school, Evander Childs, at 800 East Gun Hill Road, has more than 3,300 students. Just 30.8 percent of juniors passed the state's Regents test in reading and writing this year. More than 56 percent passed the Regents math exam. And just 37 percent of the freshman class of 1994 graduated last June.
Frustrated by the poor performance of the public schools, many parents send their children to four Roman Catholic schools in the neighborhood and the Cardinal Spellman High School a half-mile east of Williamsbridge. Tuition at the high school is $4,000 a year for both parishioners and nonparishioners.
Despite dramatic drops in violent and property crimes in recent years, crime remains a concern. In the 47th Precinct, which includes Williamsbridge, homicides dropped from 36 in 1994 to 9 in 1998, said Officer Teresa Farella, a Police Department spokeswoman. The number of rapes fell from 76 in 1994 to 32 in 1998 and robberies decreased from 1,273 in 1994 to 253 in 1998, she said. And narcotics arrests have increased from 855 in 1994 to 1,491 in 1998, a sign, Officer Farella said, of enhanced police activity rather than a rise in drug-related crime.
"Although the local precinct has been very good at dealing with the community's concerns, drug crime continues to be a major problem," said the Rev. Richard Gorman, chairman of Community Board 12. "You can still see the guys out on some corners of White Plains Road and you know what they're doing."
Residents also complain about prostitution, which, many say, flourishes in the small, rundown hotels that dot White Plains and Gun Hill Roads. While community activists fight to close the short-stay hotels, the city's surging economy may prove a more effective force in revitalizing the neighborhood's commercial streets.
National franchises like Dunkin' Donuts and Rite Aid have opened stores along White Plains Road, sandwiched among the bodegas, Caribbean bakeries and Jamaican restaurants.
Among the most promising signs of the neighborhood's resurgence is the renovation of Hillside Homes, a 14-acre low-rise housing complex on Williamsbridge's eastern edge. Built in 1934 and largely financed by a low-interest Federal loan, the 114-building, 1,416-unit complex, recently renamed Eastchester Heights, was designed by the architect Clarence Stein, a pioneer in the movement to develop low-cost garden communities in New York. It was modeled on his Sunnyside Gardens in Queens.
The project's brick, Tudor-style buildings were clustered around grassy courtyards, which contained elaborate gardens designed by Marjorie S. Cautley.
I N its time, it was one of the most significant housing projects in New York," said Andrew Dolkart, an architectural historian. "This was a way of housing working people who might otherwise be living in overcrowded neighborhoods on the Lower East Side."
Although Hillside Homes was once home to scores of Italian and Eastern European immigrants, by the 80's it had become a haven for drug dealing and more than half of its apartments were empty.
When Prime Realty Management Services took possession of the complex three years ago, there were 20 buildings in the complex with broken boilers, 4,000 broken windows -- and cracks in the sewer lines that left the area reeking of sewage, said the site manager, Esad Kukaj.
The company worked with the local police to evict or arrest drug dealers. And it began replacing boilers, painting over graffiti and renovating apartments. Prime Realty also organized a tenants' association, which has worked with the Police Athletic League to launch a series of summer programs for neighborhood children, including basketball and volleyball games.
Though the complex is now in receivership, vacancy rates in its 1,416 apartments have dropped from over 60 percent five years ago to about 5 percent this spring, Mr. Kukaj said. Apartments are rent-stabilized, with rents ranging from $450 for a studio to $850 for a three-bedroom unit.
"Now we're in the process of doing some landscaping," said Tony Bridges, maintenance director of Eastchester Heights. "It's turned around, but we still have a long way to go."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attached brick houses on East 21st Street near Bronxwood Avenue, typical of neighborhood. (The New York Times); The commercial White Plains Road, left. The elevated line carries Nos. 5 and 2 trains.Eastchester Heights, above, built in 1934 as Hillside Homes. A 19th-century house on Olinville Avenue. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times); "On the Market" -- 3-bedroom, 1-bath brick attached house at 925A East 215th Street, $157,000. 3-bedroom, 2-bath frame house at 767 East 216th Street, $169,000. 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath brick house at 3850 Barnes Avenue, $195,000.
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
 
POPULATION: 46,658 (1997 estimate).
 
AREA: 1.1 square mile.
 
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $38,587 (1997 estimate).
 
MEDIAN PRICE FOR A ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $165,000
 
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $160,000.
 
MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $130,000.
 
MEDIAN PRICE FOR A 2-FAMILY HOUSE: $185,000.
 
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $185,000.
 
MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $160,000.
 
MIDRANGE RENT FOR A 2-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $750.
 
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN: 12 miles.
 
RUSH-HOUR TRAVEL: 45 minutes on 2 or 5 subway lines, 30 minutes from Williamsbridge station on Metro-North.
 
GOVERNMENT: Councilman Lawrence A. Warden, Democrat.
 
CODES: Area, 718; ZIPs, 10467, 10466.
 
LOOSE-SHOE SABOTAGE: Williamsbridge was named for John Williams, who owned a small farm along the banks of the Bronx River in the 1670's. Although not much is known about Williams, he was able to persuade colonial officials to build a bridge across the river in 1673 to carry traffic from the Boston Road to the western Bronx. Both the bridge and the village that grew around it were given Williams's name. The bridge gained some fame during the Revolution when British couriers carrying messages between New York and the New England colonies often stopped for the night at a small inn nearby. While they rested, the inn's owner, Peter Bechdolt, loosened the shoes of their horses so that important dispatches were often delayed by what the British thought was a mysteriously lamed mount. After the war, George Washington personally thanked Bechdolt for sabotaging the enemy's communication lines.
 
Map of the Bronx, highlighting Williamsbridge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); POLAND (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WILLIAMSBRIDGE (NYC); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); POLAND (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); POLICE FORCES (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); BUDGETS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); TRENDS (68%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (64%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (54%); JEWS & JUDAISM (51%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: GARB, MAGGIE RUSSELL JOHN (61%); LUTHER JONES (60%); ALBERT TUITT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



151 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Environmental Conservation;
Economics, Pro and Con, of Making Buildings Green

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
TEN years ago one of the nation's premier environmental groups, the Natural Resources Defense Council, bought an old industrial loft building at 40 West 20th Street and decided to demonstrate its contention that constructing a building designed to be environmentally sound could be financially sound as well.
Working with the architect Randolph Croxton, the council produced a design that emphasized energy savings through insulation and the use of natural light from windows and skylights that spread through the top three floors of the building, and distributed the light via an atrium and glass strips at the top of interior walls. 
 This is in contrast to most conventional designs, where executive offices block light from outside and where interiors are blasted with artificial light that generates heat that requires the consumption of still more energy to cool. The installation also included the use of natural materials that do not exude toxic gases, and furniture made from nonendangered species of wood.
The council estimates that it saves $65,000 a year in energy costs for its 25,000-square-foot national headquarters. Since the group deliberately used only products readily available in the market, the offices were intended to be an example to other designers interested in producing structures more in tune with the environment.
It has had an impact on other environmental groups, with the Audubon Society and the Environmental Defense Fund building out their offices using similar materials and approaches. "We have had 5,000 design professionals and policy makers through here over the last 10 years," said Allen Hershkowitz, a senior scientist with the council.
And it captured the attention of the Durst Organization, which has installed fuel cells, which convert natural gas into electricity without a flame, and photovoltaic panels, which convert sunlight to electricity, in its soon-to-be completed office building at 42d Street and Broadway.
But other developers, even ones eager to be seen as progressive and green, say the economics of such technologies are still unfavorable compared to more conventional approaches. (Environmental advocates counter that this is so only because the production of raw materials enjoys billions of dollars of subsidy by the Federal Government, but developers and builders have to live in the world as it is.)
In an effort to change that balance, at least slightly, the Pataki Administration has proposed a "green building" tax credit that could be claimed by building owners and tenants in New York State who invest in measures to improve energy efficiency, improve indoor air quality and reduce the environmental impact of commercial and residential buildings in the state.
The measure is backed by an unusually diverse coalition of business, environmental, labor and real estate groups, including the Real Estate Board of New York. As currently drafted, the credit would be limited to $25 million, so a few big projects could drain the fund quickly. But advocates of the measure say the important thing is to establish the principle and seek greater funding later.
This is evidently the first time legislation has been introduced to promote the use of environmentally friendly technology in the state's construction industry, said Deborah B. Beck, executive vice president of the real estate board. "I think it will happen and I hope it happens sooner rather than later, which means this year," she said.
Timely passage is important, Ms. Beck said, because the industry is in the midst of a construction cycle, so the credit could influence projects now under way. Once the cycle passes, such a law would be just words on paper, she said.
"Most developers are risk averse," she said. "They figure they are so far out on a limb with new development, they want to avoid anything that adds to costs. The credit would create a reason for conservative people to use new materials or use them in different ways."
Ms. Beck said that there does not appear to be any organized opposition to the bill, but that it is difficult to distinguish this particular piece of legislation from all the other issues swirling around in the state capital. "It's just not easy to do given the political climate in Albany," she said.
THE basic credit would be 5 percent of the capitalized costs for eligible types of construction with an additional 2 percent credit available if a base building and all its tenant spaces complied with the listed criteria. The bill is also written to encourage the use of fuel cells and photovoltaics, with a credit available for 30 percent of the installed cost of fuel cells and 100 percent of the cost of photovoltaics over the cost of ordinary building panels.
Photovoltaics work by adding material that converts sunlight to electricity to the panels that shield a building in places where there are no windows. Environmentalists say the reason for the emphasis on fuel cells and photovoltaics is that both technologies are available now and the prospect of an increase in demand could spur investments in new plants to manufacture them, which typically lowers the costs of the products.
To be eligible forthe credit a building could not use more than 65 percent of the power allowed by the state's Energy Conservation Construction Code and would also have to meet indoor air quality standards for the amount of ventilation and content of the air. This is ironic, because many designers and engineers say it was stiffer energy standards that led to the reduction in the amount of fresh air flushed through buildings, allowing toxic gases and particles to build to concentrations that made people sick.
The eligibility criteria also include the use of building materials and finishes that have minimum percentages of recycled content and systems to handle waste disposal and reduce water use.
According to a report prepared by the real estate board, the developer of a 500,000-square-foot building worth $110 million could qualify for tax credits worth over $7.5 million, under the provisions of the bill. The credits would be spread over five years in equal parts and would be transferable to subsequent owners and tenants. Naturally, the project would have to stay in compliance with the criteria during any years when the credit is claimed.
John Gilbert, the chief operating officer of Rudin Management, which is building a headquarters building for the Reuters news and information company at 42d Street and Seventh Avenue, said environmental considerations have become part of quality construction.
He said that when the Rudin family took an empty building at 55 Broad Street, rewired it for advanced telecommunications and filled it with high-tech tenants, the objective was to develop a "smart and ready building."
Today, he said at a recent conference at the Natural Resources Defense Council, the goal for the Reuters offices at 3 Times Square is to produce a "green, smart and ready building."
He said 3 Times Square is designed to save 30 percent of the energy consumed by a typical office building. But he said what happens to the tax bill may affect the decision on whether to go ahead with installations of fuel cells and photovoltaics.
"The tax credit bill is very important when it comes to photovoltaics and fuel cells," he said. "The raw economics do not makes sense, but if you change the economics using the tax code, maybe they do."
He said the building was being wired in such a way that it can accept power from either source as the economics improve and the technology advances. As a result, he said, the Rudin organization is not biting its nails waiting for legislators in Albany to take up the bill.
"Because we're prepared to plug in these alternate energy sources, we can wait until the legislation passes or the technology becomes more efficient," he said.
While the council benefited from the energy savings because it is its own tenant, Mr. Gilbert noted that electricity costs are typically passed on to tenants by landlords, so investment by a building owner to reduce power consumption is a dubious proposition, at least on the surface.
But Robert Fox, a principal in Fox and Fowle Architects, who is doing both the Durst and the Rudin projects, said the benefits are real, if more subtle. Reducing power costs makes a building more attractive to tenants, who are concerned about their total cost of occupancy.
"Durst and Rudin spent a lot of money on these buildings that they did not have to and the tenants are getting the payback," he said. But he said they are creating a desirable asset that will be attractive to tenants, particularly in tough economic times.
"They will have full buildings in a bad market," Mr. Fox said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Model of the Reuters building, which is to rise at 42d Street and Seventh Avenue. John Gilbert of Rudin Management, its developer, said the goal was to produce a "green, smart and ready building." But specifics, he added, may hinge on whether the tax-credit bill passes. (Jock Pottle/Esto)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RTRSY (NASDAQ) (90%); RTR (LSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (90%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (90%); NAICS518111 INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (90%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ;REUTERS GROUP PLC REUTERS GROUP PLC (90%); DA GROUP PLC (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (84%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (84%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (54%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;REUTERS GROUP PLC NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (84%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (84%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (54%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (54%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; ENVIRONMENT; AIR POLLUTION; HOUSING; ENERGY EFFICIENCY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAX CREDITS; ENERGY AND POWER ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (94%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); SOLAR ENERGY (76%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (76%); NATURAL GAS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); LEGISLATION (65%); TAX LAW (64%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (62%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (50%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); HOLUSHA, JOHN DEBORAH B BECK (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



152 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2512 words

HEADLINE: Belmont Park, on the Line;
Track Hopes to Parlay Triple Crown Excitement Into a Revival of the Era When Big Crowds Roared There Every Day

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

DATELINE: ELMONT

 BODY:
"YOU gotta be here" is Belmont Park's current advertising slogan, though it shouldn't take much inducement for thousands of horse racing fans to heed the call this weekend, with Charismatic vying to capture the fabled Belmont Stakes to round out his upset wins in the Kentucky Derby and Preakness and become the first Triple Crown winner in 21 years.
But in Belmont Park's executive suite, officials have their eyes on a different challenge: parlaying the latest excitement into reviving the crowds of the track's glory years. 
 Although Belmont is considered by many experts to be the nation's premier track, its attendance and betting handle have dwindled sharply over the decades. The track's popularity has been hurt by the advent of live telecasts of Belmont races at off-track betting parlors and at other tracks, and by the Meadowlands track and the proliferation of state-run lotteries and casinos.
"I think it's the most beautiful track in the world, but there is far more competition than in the past for the gambling and entertainment dollar," said Bennett Liebman, a member of the state agency that regulates the tracks, the Racing and Wagering Board.
Like an old champ charging to regain the lead, Belmont has been trying for a comeback. "It's the best track in America -- there's nothing comparable," said Angel Cordero, the legendary jockey who won 7,200 races. Now he's an agent who matches horses and jockeys; last weekend he was at a practice starting gate behind Belmont's backstretch, training a rambunctious horse ridden by his wife, Margie.
To attract families, Belmont has spruced up its grandstand. Its "backyard" park has new picnic tables, playgrounds and refreshment stands and offers bands and pony rides for entertainment. Reflecting shifting demographics, special programs salute various nationalities. Vendors now include Chinese and West Indian food stands. Attuned to the electronic era, the track has more than 1,000 television screens for close-up views -- and some 800 conveniently placed computerized betting machines.
The efforts are scoring some success. Yearly attendance, which had dropped to 698,434 in 1997, rose last year to 736,740. That reversal was aided by another Triple Crown contender that drew 80,162 fans to the Belmont Stakes -- nearly matching that event's record of 82,694 in 1971. But the improved annual total was far below the turnout in the 1960's, which was about two million a year.
Betting also bumped up a bit in 1998, to $171 million from $169 million the year before. Yet 15 years earlier, it was $351 million -- more than double, even without being adjusted for inflation. The real action has been in simulcast betting, which on the Belmont Stakes alone grew about 55-fold to nearly $26 million last year, from $465,950 at its inception in 1981. Belmont gets a cut of such betting, but less than if bettors had come to the track.
Some of the track's immediate neighbors -- in the unincorporated community of Elmont on the south and the Village of Floral Park on the track's north side -- feel shut out of the effort to promote the track. They are especially upset that the track leaped two communities away to co-sponsor a big street festival in Garden City on the eve of the race, with horses, antique cars, bands and other entertainers.
"It's been my view for a long time that the track does very little to involve the community," said the president of Floral Park's Chamber of Commerce, James F. Whalen, who owns Suzanne's Bistro. "We had urged a parade involving Floral Park and Elmont, and they chose for whatever reason to have a festival in Garden City. We haven't been able to figure out what the connection is. It certainly doesn't leave a good feeling for anybody in Floral Park or Elmont."
Belmont Park officials say they do cooperate with local groups. "We want to do everything to be a good neighbor," said a track spokesman, William Nader. "So many of the people who work here live or shop or dine in Floral Park and Elmont, so it's important to have a good relationship.
"Maybe they don't realize some of the things we are doing," Mr. Nader continued. "We did have a Floral Park 5k run on Sunday, which we have every year, and then on Friday we have a special breakfast-at-Belmont field trip with free doughnuts, milk and juices for 400 students from Floral Park and Bellerose where they go on tram tours and see veterinarians, blacksmiths and jockeys. So there are things we're doing."
As for the festival, Mr. Nader said, "Garden City came to us and suggested we do this to commemorate a thoroughbred history going back to 1665." That was the year of the first recognized thoroughbred race in America, at a nearby site. But the site is in what is now New Hyde Park, not Garden City. In coming years, he said, the track hopes to expand its Belmont Stakes festival to other communities.
ELMONT'S Chamber of Commerce president, Paul Sapienza, who runs the Sapienza Bake Shop, also voiced disappointment. "We're a little jealous of Garden City having a festival," he said. "Obviously they have the Garden City Hotel, and nobody can argue that Garden City isn't a better name than Elmont. But still, we would like the opportunity to have a similar thing."
Generally, however, Mr. Sapienza praised the track. It installed a "Welcome to Elmont" sign, provides flowers for the median of Locustwood Boulevard across from the main entrance to the track, and advertises on the cover of the chamber's annual directory.
"We're proud to have the track here," Mr. Sapienza said. "I've never had them turn me down. They've always been supportive when we ask. I guess we just have to keep asking."
For Belmont Park to pick Garden City over Elmont is in keeping with a widespread public perception. Many racing fans have long argued that Belmont Park's operator, the New York Racing Association, has ignored the $2 bettor clutching his Daily Racing Form and other loyal railbirds whose support is vital to the track's survival.
Critics have called NYRA the private domain of wealthy horse owners who see themselves as keepers of the Sport of Kings who frequent the jackets-required Turf and Field Club. Indeed, clubhouse hallways are lined with pictures of Gold Coast names like Whitney, Vanderbilt, Phipps and Payson. (There is also a photo of the Bouvier family's sweet teen-age daughter, Jacqueline, posed on the track fence.)
"Most of the people in the village say that NYRA lives in an ivory tower," said Mr. Whalen from Floral Park, whose father was a blacksmith at the track. "The fact that they've taken a parade that we suggested to Garden City shows where their focus is."
But Belmont is also projecting a friendlier image and more common touch these days. Its special events have featured a country music day, a 110-foot balloon in the shape of a tire sponsored by Uniroyal, street entertainers like stilt walkers and a spoons player, and a fair with a roller coaster, a Ferris wheel, arm wrestling, martial arts and even high-diving pigs. Families are free to lug picnic coolers into the track's backyard, feed the ducks in the pond and sunbathe on the grass.
A track spokesman, Francis LaBelle, said, "The whole thing is, we want to get people close to the horses."
At the paddock, a Valley Stream family was making its first visit. "Our daughter just loves horses," said Ann Marie Skellington, who joined her husband and three children in watching the horses being walked a few feet away.
Nicholas Tallerico, a 10-year regular who said he bets about $150 a week, was carrying his 3-year-old, John. "It's a lot nicer and a lot cleaner now," he said the of the grounds. "It's definitely better."
Belmont's new face is the product of the team that took over at NYRA four years ago, Chairman Kenneth Noe Jr. and President Terence B. Meyocks. At the time, NYRA's fortunes had sunk so low that it had considered moving into Belmont the racing from its nearby sister track at Aqueduct in Queens, and shutting Aqueduct down for redevelopment. That plan is no longer active.
"The new management under Kenny Noe and Terry Meyocks has done a good job in reaching out and creating new fans," said Howard DeMartini, former president of Suffolk County's off-track betting agency. "It's a new era that has brought about the idea that the track need to be customer-friendly. It's an enlightened management."
A lobbyist for horse owners and trainers, Stephen M. Bochnak, said: "Gone are the days when it was just a rich man's sport."
The Belmont Stakes is a focal part of the track's strategy. "We're trying to make it not just a race," said Mr. Meyocks, "but an event for people to come here from all over the country and the world."
Industry experts say that Floral Park and Elmont are unlikely to become major recipients of dollars spent by globe-trotting patrons of the Belmont Stakes, especially with the attractions of Manhattan so close, but that there may be room to lure more track regulars to linger in the neighborhood before hopping on the adjacent Cross Island Parkway.
A broader industry strategy is to televise more racing to drum up attendance and betting, rejuvenate the sport's aging corps of fans and attract more women. Mr. Bochnak said: "It's a game, a sport, a business, it's all of those things."
From the beginning, horse racing in general and Belmont in particular have been intertwined with business, government and politics. Some NYRA trustees are among the state's leading political donors.
The park itself is named for August Belmont, a prominent leader in business, society and politics. The first Belmont Stakes ran in 1867 in Jerome Park in the Bronx and was won by a filly named Ruthless. The stakes of 1880 started the custom of the post parade of horses around the track at each race. In 1890 the stakes moved to Morris Park, also in the Bronx. The track opened at the current site in 1905, opening to a crowd of 40,000.
A 1908 statute outlawed betting at tracks, leading to a suspension of racing in the state in 1911-12. After the tracks reopened, a fire in 1917 destroyed most of Belmont's buildings. Racing switched from clockwise to counterclockwise in 1921. Bookmaking was authorized in 1933. The public address system and photo-finish camera came in 1936. Parimutuel betting laws took effect in 1940. Belmont closed from 1963 to 1967 for a $31 million rebuilding.
To draw more and better horses into competition, the State Legislature voted to help expand the winning purses. A shortage of horses to fill the racing cards has forced Belmont, which used to run seven days a week during its spring and fall meets, to drop Monday and Tuesday racing. That has hurt both attendance and handle.
Although the state and NYRA have long disputed which of them actually owns the tracks, the issue is moot for now. Governor Pataki signed a law in 1997 that extended to 2007 the association's franchise to operate Belmont, Aqueduct and Saratoga.
Today's Belmont covers 430 acres, with parking for 18,500 cars and terminals for buses and the Long Island Rail Road. The verdant infield with its landscaped ponds is surrounded by a mile-and-a half outer dirt oval track and two inner turf courses, with six television camera towers. There is also a training track and pony track.
The 61 barns have stalls for 2,200 horses. The grandstand and clubhouse building extends 1,266 feet -- longer than the Empire State Building is high, the public relations folks like to say. The dining capacity is 3,100. There are three kitchens and 42 concession stands. The dormitories house up to 865 people, and the medical office has 14 beds.
"It's a little city all its own that runs around the clock, with cooks, carpenters and electricians and everything else," said NYRA's chief financial officer, Alec Ingle.
The track's economic impact is big, but hard to pin down precisely. NYRA's annual payroll is $44 million, covering some 7,000 full- and part-time workers at all three tracks. Many of those employees live in western Nassau and eastern Queens, near Belmont and Aqueduct, where they work most of the year. From the end of July to early September, the whole circus moves up to Saratoga.
Besides NYRA's workers, thousands more work on site for caterers, or for trainers, or for off-site allied businesses like suppliers of feed, hay and straw. At the Tack Room on Hempstead Turnpike across from Belmont, Ramon Santana, who worked at the track until allergies forced him out, hand tools fine leather saddles costing up to $1,500.
Belmont pays $9 million in property taxes alone to local governments in Nassau County, and a small fraction of that to New York City for a slice of the property that extends into Queens.
THE track is part of the local fabric in Floral Park and Elmont, where most everyone seems to have a relative, friend or neighbor who has worked there. Yet somehow the track does not have as big a profile as might be expected.
"In the normal day-to-day operations of the track, it goes pretty much unnoticed, maybe a little extra activity when the workers let out," Mr. Sapienza of Elmont said a few days before the Stakes. "We do have a spike this week, of course. People are calling the chamber looking for hotels and restaurants. Unfortunately we don't have any hotels -- but the restaurants will experience a lot of extra business."
In Floral Park, Mayor Steven W. Corbett said, "The track has talked about developing a Saratoga type of environment here. The problem is we're not Saratoga, but there is still a lot we could do."
Mr. Whalen said Belmont should follow the lead of the Derby and Preakness with a prolonged local celebration. "You look down our main shopping streets, and it's business as usual," he said. "We get no business from the track," he added, ignoring for the moment the hundreds of Belmont-related paychecks that are spent at local grocery stores, dry cleaners and gas stations.
On Hempstead Turnpike near the track, the former O'Brien's bar is displaying the kind of hope that springs eternal in racing people by renaming itself the Triple Crown Bar. Its corner television is tuned in to the racing action across the street. "Of course we have to have that on," said the bartender, Deborah Krieger.
At the Belmont Diner across from the track, a waitress, Diane Jacobelli, gave her take on the Belmont Stakes. "One day a year is a madhouse," she said. "Last year I worked 15 hours and almost had a nervous breakdown. We were pushing customers away, people were waiting for cabs for hours and I made more than $300 in tips."
This year she is dropping her weekend shifts -- but not till next weekend.
For 40 years Ronald Falk, an insurance worker and retired police officer from Little Neck, has been coming to Belmont to do a little betting.
"I come every Saturday -- well, not every Saturday," Mr. Falk said, correcting himself. His wife, Aileen, interjected: "Fifty out of 52." The track is much improved lately, Mr. Falk said, "but I don't think it'll ever go back to the big crowds."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Though simulcast betting has put a damper on attendance, aficionados like to see their sport up close. The grandstand crowd, top, checks entries between races; fans, above, watch the action through binoculars and picnickers at the rail as the horses hit the final stretch. (Photographs by William Lopez for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Dominic Cozzi, above, looks at a racing form as the board in the background posts the odds for the next race. Horses, top, being led from the paddock area. Maryann Morrone at the track, which hopes to draw more women. (Photographs by William Lopez for The New York Times)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (76%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FLORAL PARK'S CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLORAL PARK'S CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (76%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING; BELMONT PARK RACE TRACK; OFF-TRACK BETTING HORSE RACING (91%); SPORTS FANS (90%); GAMING (90%); HORSES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LOTTERIES (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE ANGEL TOMAS CORDERO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



153 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 4; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: How Art Museums Help Children Learn

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ATTEBERY 

 BODY:
ABOUT 20 elementary students sat in rapt attention at the Yale Center for British Art in New Haven before an 18th-century painting of a family drinking tea and working jigsaw puzzles. There was no accompanying video and no loud music. And the only fast-action scenes were of alternating arms shooting into the air when Paula Brown, a docent for the gallery, asked the students a question. "They're drinking tea," said Ms. Brown. "Where does tea come from?"
A hand shot up. "China!" 
 "Yes. So if you could afford tea, you were wealthy, right? Tea was the rage, and this was polite society."
The students were learning about 18th-century English society as part of a program designed to complement their school studies and compare life in England with that in America during the Revolutionary War period. Follow-up visits would focus on landscape painting and the art and architecture of English cities.
Jennifer Wells, a third grade teacher at the Helene Grant School in New Haven, brought her students to the Yale museum last week.
"My students were overwhelmed by the different types of paintings they saw, and they've taken some of what they've learned and related it to artwork they see in their every-day lives," she said. "A lot of them want to go back to the museum with their Moms and Dads."
The gallery offers nearly a score of thematic tours to students and also works with teachers to design their own tours or helps them take advantage of the many teachers' workshops throughout the year.
The Yale Center for British Art also works with the Yale University Art Gallery to offer programs for students from kindergarten through college. Some programs also combine art tours with attendance at New Haven theater productions that relate to current museum exhibitions.
Docent-led tours and educational programs designed for school groups, families and teachers are growing at Connecticut art museums. While the Yale Center for British Art focuses specifically on gallery experiences, other museums -- such as the Bruce Museum in Greenwich, the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford, and the New Britain Museum of American Art -- also offer studio classes and activities for children and their parents.
While school trips often introduce children to museums, Connecticut museums are seeing a significant increase in family visits, as well.
At the Wadsworth Atheneum, Shelly Casto, the acting director of education, attributed the increase to "families looking for more constructive activities to do together."
"The idea of drop-in activities in a museum, where parents drop kids off for a studio course and pick them up later," Ms. Casto said, "has been around awhile. But the concept of activities that parents and kids can do together is more recent."
Studies suggest that children exposed to art at an early age go to museums as adults. Jane Alexander, an actress and the former chairwoman of the National Endowment for the Arts, stressed the importance of arts education while appearing recently at the Connecticut Forum in Hartford. Ms. Alexander said that, with increased "corporatization and mallization, we are losing authentic experiences day by day in this country," and suggested that parents exposing their children to experiences more stimulating to their imagination.
"Art education at an early age and continued exposure to art throughout a child's school years," she said, "is going to make the difference in creative thinking in our society -- exposure, exposure, exposure."
Many children, according to Linda Friedlaender, curator of education at the Yale Center for British Art, grow up on a steady diet of what she calls the "Sesame Street syndrome," which incorporates fast action and quick changes designed to hold viewers' attention.
"Looking at art requires concentration," she said. "Kids have to be reminded, you really have to look hard at this and focus on it. These are skills that children are losing. We also have a lot of competition with technology today. Art and music are still considered extras. Priorities need to be rearranged in this country."
A healthy Connecticut economy, combined with demands from parents and teachers for increased arts instruction, is helping to do just that. Robin Garr, curator of education at the Bruce Museum, has noted an increase in museum attendance as schools use art collections as a resource for teachers. The museum said about 21,000 student attended its 1,129 programs this school year, up from about 12,000 students and 491 programs in the 1989-1990 school year. About half of its programs deal with art, the museum said.
"Fifteen years ago," said Ms. Garr, "there was a severe lack of art education and museums served as the art educators. That has changed drastically now," she said. "Teachers are working art into their curricula and art becomes an enhancement and extension of the curriculum."
Ms. Garr also credits the Goals 2000 Project, a Federal program that established national standards for learning in the arts as well as other subject areas, with helping to bring art to the forefront.
"I think that helped museum educators a lot," she said, "because we can plug ourselves into the curriculum and into what teachers' needs are. I think museums as a whole are working closely with the schools on developing specific areas of the curriculum." Many museum educators follow the theory of multiple intelligence, which was developed by Howard Gardner, professor of cognition and education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. The theory critiques the notion that there is a single standard for assessing human intelligence.
"Everyone learns in a different way," Ms. Casto said. "There's a significant population that learns best visually. Our society operates visually, so you have to learn to read cues out there in order to navigate effectively in our society. Those children who learn best visually, if not given art training, are not given the opportunity to develop their skills effectively. When children come here they have to make judgments about what works of art mean to them. It's good for their reasoning and critical-thinking skills."
Successful museum visits often result when parents and teachers prepare children ahead of time by talking about what they will be seeing and discussing art-related terms. For children ages 3 to 8, a book called "Molly Meets Mona and Friends" introduces young people to more than a dozen well-known artists while telling the story of a young girl who visits a nearby museum when she needs inspiration for her own artwork. At the museum, Molly interacts with the Mona Lisa, as well as with paintings and sculptures by such masters as Picasso, Calder, Seurat and Van Gogh. The book is a Connecticut collaboration, written by Gladys Walker of Stratford, conceived and illustrated by Denise Bennett Minnerly of Rowayton, and published by Greene Bark Press of Bridgeport.
"We've had a wonderful reaction from teachers, many of whom haven't had anything like this before," said Ms. Walker. "They say it's a good way to introduce art and to reinforce different concepts with their students."
Mary Kordak, curator of education at the Yale University Art Gallery, says the book has been used in several programs at the gallery and is regularly stocked by the gallery store.
"It's a very nice book and certainly one way for children to enter the world of the museum," she said.
Museums also offer activities to give children a stimulating social experience.
"You can see movies using a V.C.R. or go to the theater and have the experience of being in a real place with other people," said Dorothy Cantor, the coordinator of education at the New Britain Museum of American Art. "Families need a varied experience when visiting a museum. They can't go from one gallery to the next and expect young children to keep going. So we give them chances to take a little time out, to play a game or do something in addition to just looking at art."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Yale Center for British Art, Paula Brown talks with a group of third graders from the Helene Grant School in New Haven. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; REVOLUTIONARY WAR, AMERICAN (1775-83); ART; LIFE STYLES; HISTORY; EIGHTEENTH CENTURY MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); PAINTING (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (78%); TOYS & GAMES (77%); THEATER (62%); 

PERSON: ATTEBERY, ELIZABETH

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



154 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 15; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Blowing the Fuse On Family Squabbles

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
THE Schoolhouse in Croton Falls, N.Y. has unearthed lost plays to potluck effect. But "Precious Sons," an eight-week Broadway failure in 1986, is its coming-of-age production.
Under Pamela Moller Kareman, who has earned the right to be called the theater's artistic director, a flawed play that was dismissed as dated and derivative 13 years ago, is re-interpreted by a terrific cast so that it rips into contemporary life. 
 No staging at the Schoolhouse has had such professional sheen and solid performances throughout. With its new Actors Equity contract, Ms. Moller Kareman's production of George Furth's little-known play is now a standard bearer for a valuable theater that, having taken the leap, can no longer afford to coast or compromise a newly set standard.
On the battleground of Fred and Bea Small's marriage, their 14-year-old son, Freddy -- an aspiring actor -- is the passive resister, shielding his eyes, holding his ears, cowering. But he's an active participant in the sibling war with the self-described "slightly older, more handsome" Artie, who is less sensitive and less entrapped by the "Father Knows Best" culture.
Ms. Moller Kareman's staging is subtly overtaking in its impact. Before long, the fuse blows on the light-headed comedy about family squabbles and horseplay. More even-handed than in its original production, Mr. Furth's play is now more sustained and dramatic, and far funnier, hilariously so when Bea wildly and crazily cues Freddy in the Evening Star newspaper delivery boy scene from "A Streetcar Named Desire," later going on about her son's show-stealing turn. That's because the audience is so tired of Blanche's yammering by the time he makes his entrance.
In the original production, Bea (then played by Judith Ivey) was perceived as a controlling monster who belittled her blue-collar husband into giving up an advancement opportunity, so that Freddy could be an actor. The play was presumed to be an autobiographical statement in the conventional mode of 50's-style kitchen sink playwriting. Now that tales of domestic violence are no longer unspoken, Fred is as scary as he is stereotypical and Bea's neurosis is more complicated and resonant. Her eruptions become harrowing, his responses more helpless, cruel and defensive.
Fred Small may be a Tennessee Williams or William Inge type stud but he's Willy Loman inside, looking for some recognition through his sons, ultimately resigned to being a nonentity.
Keith Barber's many-shaded Fred is as good as Ed Harris's award-winning performance in the New York production. Nancy Hess, who has filled in for both Roxie and Velma, the two leads in "Chicago" on Broadway, is expert at capturing the shifting dramatic and comic duality in a conflicted woman.
As "It's a Wonderful World" is playing on the radio, Bea stops at nothing to keep her family together. So what if her husband can no longer dare to dream? Maybe he'll die.
If Bea is the 50's prototype of a good wife ("Have dinner ready," "Make the evening his" in the words of an excerpt from a 50's home economics textbook in a Schoolhouse program insert), she is as well the agitatorand the "patron saint of complainers" Fred calls her. "Old Lady Breakdown" isn't far behind. Her incessant barbs, signifying repression or retaliation, illuminate the conscious and unconscious maneuvers of a passive-aggressive personality.
Ms. Hess traverses the route of a mad housewife -- by turns manic, high pitched and out of control -- as well as controlling and enabling. She mixes insidious put-downs, sexual come ons and the excesses of the martyr mother ("Maybe I'll die and make everybody happy").
Bea is there when the man of the house needs her to pick him up so she can knock him down again, and she feeds him (always for the last time) the addictive stomach-ulcer soother he's not allowed to take.
Bea and Fred are mutually abusive, and Fred shoves Freddy (Tim Rizor in a poignant first post-school play appearance) around -- a lot. Father is only kidding, though. This is man stuff.
If "Precious Sons" promises a happy ending, it is as forced as it is unsettling, reflecting eternal family compromises and how little those have really changed, since 1949 (when the play takes place) or 1986 (when it was first produced).
In Ms. Moller Kareman's deft hands, "Precious Sons" is a loser no more.
 
"Precious Sons," The Schoolhouse, Croton Falls, N.Y. (914) 277-8477. Performances through next Sunday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Schoolhouse in Croton Falls, N.Y., Nancy Hess and Keith Barber as Bea and Fred Small in "Precious Sons."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PRECIOUS SONS (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); THEATER (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); FAMILY (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (64%); 

PERSON: FURTH, GEORGE; MOLLER KAREMON, PAMELA; KLEIN, ALVIN EDDIE GEORGE (70%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



155 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 10; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
'Precious Sons' on Stage at the Schoolhouse

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

DATELINE: CROTON FALLS

 BODY:
THE Schoolhouse has unearthed plays to pot luck effect. But "Precious Sons" by George Furth, an eight-week Broadway failure in 1986, is its coming-of-age production.
Under Pamela Moller Kareman, who has earned the right to be called the theater's artistic director, a flawed play that was dismissed as dated and derivative 13 years ago is reinterpreted by a terrific cast so that it rips into contemporary life. 
 No staging at the Schoolhouse has had such professional sheen and solid performances throughout. With its new Actors Equity contract, Ms. Moller Kareman's production of Mr. Furth's little-known play is now a standard bearer for a valuable theater, which, having taken the leap, can no longer afford to coast or compromise a newly set standard.
On the battleground of Fred and Bea Small's marriage, their 14-year-old son, Freddy -- an aspiring actor -- is the passive resister, shielding his eyes, holding his ears, cowering. But he's an active participant in the sibling war with the self-described "slightly older, more handsome" Artie, who is less sensitive and less entrapped by the "Father Knows Best" culture so vividly pictured in last year's underrated movie "Pleasantville."
Ms. Moller Kareman's staging is subtly overtaking in its impact. Before long, the fuse blows on the light-headed comedy about family squabbles and horseplay. More even-handed than in its original production, Mr. Furth's play is now more sustained and dramatic and far funnier, hilariously so when Bea wildly and crazily cues Freddy in The Evening Star newspaper-delivery-boy scene from "A Streetcar Named Desire," later going on about her son's show-stealing turn. That is because the audience is so tired of Blanche's yammering by the time he makes his entrance.
In the original production, Bea (then played by Judith Ivey) was perceived as a controlling monster who belittled her blue-collar husband into giving up an advancement opportunity so that Freddy could be an actor. The play was presumed to be an autobiographical statement in the conventional mode of 50's-style kitchen sink playwriting.
Now that tales of domestic violence are no longer unspoken, Fred is as scary as he is stereotypical and Bea's neurosis is more complicated and resonant. Her eruptions become harrowing, his responses more helpless, cruel and defensive.
Fred Small may be a Tennessee Williams- or William Inge-type stud, but he is Willy Loman inside, looking for some recognition through his sons, ultimately resigned to being a nonentity.
Keith Barber's many-shaded Fred is as good as Ed Harris's award-winning performance in the New York production. Nancy Hess, who has filled in for both Roxie and Velma, the two leads in "Chicago" on Broadway, is expert at capturing the shifting dramatic and comic duality in a conflicted woman.
As "It's a Wonderful World" is playing on the radio, Bea stops at nothing to keep her family together. So what if her husband can no longer dare to dream? Maybe he will die.
If Bea is the 50's prototype of a good wife ("Have dinner ready," "Make the evening his" in the words of an excerpt from a 50's home economics textbook in a Schoolhouse program insert), she is, as well, the agitator and the "patron saint of complainers" that Fred calls her. "Old Lady Breakdown" isn't far behind. Her incessant barbs, signifying repression or retaliation, illuminate the conscious and unconscious maneuvers of a passive-aggressive personality.
Ms. Hess traverses the route of a mad housewife -- by turns manic, high pitched and out of control -- as well as controlling and enabling. She mixes insidious put-downs, sexual come-ons and the excesses of the martyr mother ("Maybe I'll die and make everybody happy").
Bea is there when the man of the house needs her to pick him up so she can knock him down again, and she feeds him (always for the last time) the addictive stomach-ulcer soother he is not allowed to take.
Bea and Fred are mutually abusive, and Fred shoves Freddy (Tim Rizor in a poignant first post-school play appearance) around -- a lot. Father is only kidding, though. This is man stuff.
If "Precious Sons" promises a happy ending, it is as forced as it is unsettling, reflecting eternal family compromises and how little those have really changed since 1949 (when the play takes place) or 1986 (when it was first produced).
In Ms. Moller Kareman's deft hands, "Precious Sons" is a loser no more.
 
"Precious Sons," produced by the Schoolhouse, 1 Owens Road in Croton Falls. Performances through next Sunday. Box office: 277-8477.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nancy Hess and Keith Barber in "Precious Sons" in Croton Falls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PRECIOUS SONS (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); FILM (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); FAMILY (71%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (64%); 

PERSON: FURTH, GEORGE; MOLLER KAREMAN, PAMELA; KLEIN, ALVIN BEA SMALL (94%); FRED SMALL (91%); MOLLER KAREMAN (61%); GEORGE FURTH (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



156 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Making Polluted Land Come Alive Once More

BYLINE: By FRED MUSANTE 

 BODY:
ENVIRONMENTALISTS and the forces of economic development have seldom agreed, but in a curious marriage, they have joined together in the aging mill towns of the Naugatuck River Valley to restore polluted industrial properties and make them available for development again.
Through a partnership with environmentalists, municipal officials, industrialists and developers, the Naugatuck Valley Brownfields Pilot Program has cleaned up former dump sites and industrial properties from Derby to Torrington, making them attractive for redevelopment in a region that has suffered greatly from the loss of jobs and tax revenue. 
 The program has enabled Seymour to prepare its old municipal landfill as the development site for the Haynes Construction Company and the former Seymour Specialty Wire Company property for a new Stop and Shop supermarket. In Derby, the program has cleared the way for the redevelopment of the closed Farrel Company foundry. These new businesses will add tax revenues allowing the communities to pay for other municipal improvements, including open space purchases.
"We wouldn't have done it if someone else hadn't come forward to do the study," said Thomas Haynes of Haynes Construction, referring to an environmental study conducted by the brownfield program. "The site was too much of an unknown."
The program has also opened up public access to the banks of the Housatonic and Naugatuck rivers in these communities, creating recreational opportunities and offering the possibility of eventually creating a footpath extending from Long Island Sound to the Massachusetts border.
The reuse of the so-called brownfield properties also diverts development from other undeveloped land, thus preserving the state's dwindling supply of open space and agricultural land while eliminating the expense of extending utilities, sewer lines, highways and other infrastructure.
"Without meaning to, or without having it as its sole intent, brown fields draw together environmentalists and businesses," said Jane Stahl, an assistant commissioner of the state's Department of Environmental Protection.
Brown fields are former industrial properties that are contaminated with hazardous chemicals that must be cleaned up before the land can be reused. Contaminants found on these properties may include heavy metals like mercury, solvents, or petroleum products in the soil, or asbestos or lead-based paint on buildings.
Although these properties are not polluted enough to be a public health hazard, the chemicals may be carried by the rain into nearby rivers and streams, and the cost of cleanup makes them too expensive for redevelopment.
The Naugatuck Valley's communities were disproportionately affected by this problem, according to Representative James Maloney, whose Congressional district includes much of the valley. Although the region is only 10 percent of the state's land area, it has 20 percent of its brownfield properties, he said.
As a State Senator in 1994, Mr. Maloney sponsored the first brownfield legislation in Connecticut and helped Waterbury win $30 million in bond funding to redevelop a closed brass mill as the new Brass Mill Center shopping mall, which opened in 1997. After his election to Congress in 1996, he co-sponsored Federal brownfield legislation with Representative Christopher Shays, whose Fairfield County district also has many such properties.
The state brownfield legislation relaxed environmental requirements so that the land did not have to be restored to pristine condition but could be made only clean enough for the use that was intended. The legislation provided money for environmental assessments so that developers and investors knew what the clean-up costs would be, eliminating an uncertainty that had been a major impediment to redevelopment. And it created qualifications for environmental professionals to eliminate bureaucratic bottlenecks that were another impediment to property development.
Federal brownfield laws added money and tax credits to offset the cost of assessments and cleanup.
Mr. Maloney said the programs make use of properties that are in prime locations for development, cleans up the environment, helps economically revitalize cities, and takes pressure off the development of woodlands and farms for industry.
The history of the Naugatuck Valley pilot program began in response to the recession in the late 1980's when a coalition of civic, religious and labor groups, concerned about the loss of jobs from factory closings and the effect on families in the region, formed the Naugatuck Valley Project. It encompasses the entire Naugatuck Valley from Torrington to Derby.
Although it was unsuccessful at stopping the loss of jobs, the broad reach of the Naugatuck Valley Project made it the perfect vehicle to move the brownfield project forward, and it became the governing board for the pilot program in 1994.
Recognizing that environmentalists had a stake in the brownfield pilot project, the board invited two environmentalist groups that had long worked to clean up the Housatonic and Naugatuck rivers, Trout Unlimited and the Housatonic Valley Association, to join as members.
"We came to this very skeptically," said Albin Weber, president of the Naugatuck Valley Chapter of Trout Unlimited. "Who's going to make sure when these properties are cleaned up there's going to be greenways established along the river?"
It turned out that the involvement of the environmentalists was extremely helpful. The improvements that Trout Unlimited and the Housatonic Valley Association wanted fit in with the redevelopment plans of the municipalities. The greenways along the river banks make the brownfield properties more attractive, provide a buffer to keep pollution from washing into the rivers during rainstorms, and create a place for people to walk and fish, said Elaine LaBella, a spokeswoman for the Housatonic Valley Association.
The economic development program brought in the government financing necessary to create the greenways the environmentalists wanted, and the environmentalists gave the project credibility it would not otherwise have.
"The old-timers in Waterbury still remember when the river used to run different colors depending on the color of the sneakers they were making at the Uniroyal plant," Mr. Weber said. It's difficult for the towns to "resell the river," he said, but if the environmentalists say it's clean, then the public is more likely to believe it.
"Each side is helping the other. That's the greatest part of it."
From the outset, the pilot project focused on O'Sullivan's Island, actually a peninsula, at the confluence of the Naugatuck and Housatonic rivers. Illegally dumped chemicals were discovered there in the 1980's, and more than 90 drums of pollutants have been removed.
The spit of land is potentially important to Derby, which wants to turn it into a park and has plans to build a marina there, according to Mayor Marc J. Garofalo. O'Sullivan's Island is also the starting point for the riverbank greenways that the environmentalists want.
Mr. Garofalo said Derby is the smallest and one of the oldest municipalities in Connecticut. Nearly the entire city is developed, leaving very little opportunity for open space. When 144 acres of woodlands with two reservoirs was offered for sale in 1997 by Birmingham Utilities, the local water company, the city jumped at the chance to buy it rather than let it be developed.
Similarly, in Seymour, Birmingham Utilities offered to sell the town a 229-acre parcel, said First Selectman John A. O'Toole. But, like Derby, Seymour is small with a tight budget. The two communities have to pursue economic development to be able to afford open space, their chief executives said. In both cases, their brownfield redevelopment successes gave them the money needed to buy the land.
From the state's point of view, the cooperation between environmentalists and economic development interests in the Naugatuck Valley is just what it wanted to see. "We're looking for collaboration and partnership," Ms. Stahl said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Riverfront in Derby: such green areas make brown fields more attractive. In Derby, the now-closed foundry of the Farrel Company. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3315 STEEL WIREDRAWING & STEEL NAILS & SPIKES (70%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (56%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SA WIRE CO LTD (70%); STOP & SHOP SUPERMARKET CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; LAND USE POLICIES; RIVERS WATER POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RIVERS (90%); LANDFILLS (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); COPPER INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (74%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); FISHES (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (68%); LEAD (66%); ASBESTOS (61%); LEAD PAINT (50%); 

PERSON: MUSANTE, FRED JAMES MALONEY (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



157 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Residential Developer Vs. Community Groups on Upper East Side;
A 31-Story Building, or Two 8-Story Buildings?

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
A battle is shaping up on the Upper East Side.
In a joint venture, the Denihan Company and the Albanese Development Corporation want to build a 31-story apartment building on a block bounded by East 75th and 76th Streets and York Avenue and the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive. The mid-block site, running from 75th to 76th, is owned by Denihan. 
 The building, which would have 150 to 175 units -- probably medium- to large-sized condominiums, a spokesman said -- needs a zoning change. The low-slung buildings now on the site, which is zoned for manufacturing, include a parking garage, an auto dealership and a chocolate-making factory.
The developers of The Gardens, as the condominium at 506 East 76th Street would be called, want to change the overall zoning to allow them to set their new tower back from the street and install landscaping and a through-block driveway.
But the most powerful neighborhood groups object, saying the proposed building is way out of context for the neighborhood. And, in an unusual action, they have filed their own application with the City Planning Department to change the zoning to permit buildings no taller than eight stories on the site. Because of the size of the parcel, they say the developers could build two eight-story buildings, one on 75th Street and one on 76th Street, and offer a total of 156 smaller apartments.
Community Board 8, along with Friends of the Upper East Side, Civitas and other groups, have joined to file the application; Community Board 8 will meet Wednesday to vote on the developers' proposal. But as Barry Schneider, the board's chairman, said last week: "Since we did make our own application, I imagine we'll vote down the developers' application."
But Vincent M. Albanese, the vice chairman of Albanese Development, which built 100 United Nations Plaza and is constructing a 30-story rental building on the site of a former flea market on Sixth Avenue between 24th and 25th Streets, said that even if the community board voted against them, its vote would be only advisory. The matter goes next to the Borough President, then to the City Planning Commission and finally to the City Council.
Mr. Albanese said the partners showed an earlier proposal to the community groups a year ago. Because of criticism, he said, the building design had been changed: several stories were lopped off the plan and the driveway was added because neighborhood residents were concerned about the traffic increase into the cul-de-sacs at the end of East 75th and 76th Streets.
Mr. Schneider said the two eight-story buildings would be "economically feasible." But Mr. Albanese said the site had certain disadvantages, including the nearby Con Edison steam plant and a city incinerator. To make money, he argued, the partners must offer exactly this kind of building: a large luxury condominium or, depending on the market at the time of construction, a luxury rental building.
 TRACIE ROZHON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Design for proposed 31-story building. (Costas Kondylis and Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DENIHAN CO; ALBANESE DEVELOPMENT CORP CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (50%); COMMUNITY BOARD (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: DENIHAN CO; ALBANESE DEVELOPMENT CORP COMMUNITY BOARD (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UPPER EAST SIDE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ZONING ZONING (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); CITIES (87%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); PROCESS STEAM UTILITIES (60%); NEW CAR DEALERS (54%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE VINCENT M ALBANESE (78%); BARRY SCHNEIDER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



158 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: WORKING;
Calming The Butterflies

BYLINE: By MICHELLE COTTLE; Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer.

 BODY:

Q. Help! I've just been promoted to a position that will require me to give presentations to clients, trade organizations and even our board of directors. Unfortunately, I'm one of those people who freezes in front of a group. I've tried picturing the audience in its underwear and a half-dozen other tricks, but the moment the spotlight falls on me, I start babbling. I'm thinking of signing up for public-speaking lessons, but I've got a big speech to get through in a couple of weeks. Any survival tips?
 
A. Scrunch your toes together several times. Seriously. "It's an isometric exercise that diverts a bit of the adrenaline edge," said Frank Carillo, president of the Executive Communications Group, a consulting firm in Englewood, N.J. "When a person starts freaking out, it's because their adrenaline response is getting the best of them. You don't want to shut off that response, but you need to get the edge off." 
 Other ways to reduce stress include warming up your voice for a few minutes before a presentation and, during your speech, talking a bit louder than usual, Mr. Carillo added. "This gets you breathing more vigorously," which can help ease the tension, he said.
As for the presentation, make sure the key points are clear in your mind and stick to them, said Pam Keyzer, district governor of the New York and New Jersey branch of Toastmasters International, an organization that helps members sharpen their public-speaking skills. "Say what you have to say and then stop talking," she said.
Mr. Carillo agreed that the best talks are focused and succinct. At high-level meetings in particular, he advised, "don't go in planning to make an hour presentation with 75 slides." Your listeners will become impatient and start interrupting you with questions to get the information they want. "And you will feel victimized," he added.
To avoid babbling, learn the value of strategic repetition. Many speakers start rambling because they've lost their train of thought and want to cover their lapse, Mr. Carillo said. Instead, pause and reiterate a snippet of what you just finished saying. "Most people are such bad listeners they won't notice," he said, "and it will give you a second running start at the thinking process."
Similarly, if someone asks you a tough question, repeat it aloud. That not only insures that you (and the rest of the audience) are clear on the question, but it also buys you valuable thinking time, Ms. Keyzer said.
Feel free to take a few seconds to formulate an answer. "You don't have to hit the button like you're on 'Jeopardy,' " Mr. Carillo said.
Finally, because many speakers feel overwhelmed by a sea of faces in front of them, try focusing on just one person at a time. "Don't ever try to talk to 'the audience,' " he said.
And forget about that picturing-people-in-their-underwear trick. "That's not a pretty sight with most senior management groups," Mr. Carillo said with a laugh.
 
Michelle Cottle is a Washington writer. Each week, she responds to readers' questions about career and workplace issues. Send them by E-mail to working@nytimes.com or by mail to Working, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL (54%); TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL (54%); TOASTMASTERS INTERNATIONAL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: FRANK CARILLO (94%); PAM KEYZER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



159 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2468 words

HEADLINE: As Buildings Rise, So Do Their Rents

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
MONEY was not the main problem for Andre Abucham, a 23-year-old from Brazil, when he went apartment shopping in Manhattan a few months ago.
Although he is working in a training program at Salomon Smith Barney for under $30,000 a year, Mr. Abucham was able to rent a one-bedroom midtown apartment at the Sheffield on 57th Street off Eighth Avenue for $3,000 a month. His father, who owns a civil engineering company in Sao Paulo, is helping with the rent. 
 If builders had to rely on parental largesse to help tenants rent in any of the new luxury buildings rising in midtown Manhattan these days, the renting process would be slow indeed. But they do benefit from the prevalence of two-income households when they seek rents that stretch the levels previously obtained in the locations of some of the new projects.
The expectation that it can attract higher-income professionals has entered into the calculations of Rose Associates in launching a residential project called the Madison Belvedere, a building that is a departure for its immediate neighborhood in size as well as market ambition. It is a 48-story tower in the middle of the block between 29th and 28th Streets, east of Fifth Avenue. The entrance will be on 29th Street.
"We're in a transitional neighborhood between the Flatiron District and midtown," said Adam R. Rose, president of Rose Associates. He said he refers to it facetiously as NoFlaWeMu (north of the Flatiron District and west of Murray Hill). "We believe it will eventually fill in with other new buildings," he said. Commercial brokers would call the area the Midtown South office district, and in fact office growth has helped give zip to the residential market.
Rose Associates has already found that it is getting rents averaging $47 a square foot per year (about $2,450 to $2,750 a month for a one-bedroom apartment) upon vacancy for the handful of rental apartments it still owns a few blocks away at Madison Green, the condominium it built in 1983 in what was then the untested market at 23d Street off Madison Square Park, now called the Flatiron District.
Accordingly, the company will go on the market at $47 to $48 a square foot at the Madison Belvedere in July. Bringing in a "high-end" apartment with expensive finishes, Rose will offer one-bedroom apartments in a rental range of $2,400 to $3,200 a month. The one-bedrooms -- in six varieties, with and without balconies -- account for 54 percent of the apartments. The 79 two-bedroom apartments will rent from $3,800 to $5,500 a month, and the 99 studios from $1,850 to $2,350.
Rose Associates is by no means alone in the 90's in finding a slightly offbeat location for a new residential building and then attempting to demonstrate that it can command rents that are higher than the norm in the area.
With the healthy economic climate that has prevailed over the last few years accompanied by a strong stock market, the developers have been successful so far. Yet there are voices of caution as the inventory of new buildings reaches the market in a steady flow, and price resistance is reported by management groups.
The Zucker Organization has made a specialty of choosing locations where major builders have not ventured. Two recent examples are SoHo Court, at Elizabeth and Houston Street, which came on the market three years ago, and CD 280, on East Second Street between Avenues C and D.
Now the company has gone into construction in another unusual location, Broadway between Worth Street and Catherine Lane, two blocks north of Chambers Street. It will be a 16-story building with 147 apartments plus stores, and a parking garage for 114 cars, for which a special permit was obtained. The main entrance will be on Worth Street. Renting will start in February or March, with occupancy in 10 or 11 months.
"The percentage of people who can afford to pay $45 a square foot is very small," said Donald Zucker, principal in the company. "Once you're down to $40, apartments are like hen's teeth." At $45 a square foot a year, a typical one-bedroom, with 700 square feet of space, would rent for $2,650 a month. At $40 a square foot, it would rent for $2,300 a month.
"There are a lot of new buildings coming on the market," Mr. Zucker said. "We may get back to the point where we're selling condominiums again." Selling rather than renting is a last resort for an investment building company, whose business is to hold property longterm and build up equity for future projects. But in an overbuilt market, it is the path many builders take.
The Brodsky Organization concentrated on the Lincoln Center area when it began building a large inventory of rental apartments. Now it runs a total of 2,200 rentals in four properties in the area. Its latest midtown project is One Columbus Place, with 729 apartments in two towers that share a large lobby, between 58th and 59th Streets at Ninth Avenue. It opened in 1997.
Sandy Rotkoff, director of leasing for the Brodsky Organization, said she handled about 400 re-rentals a year in Brodsky buildings. Typical rents for a vacancy at present are about $1,800 for a studio apartment, $2,450 for a one-bedroom and $3,900 for a two-bedroom. It works out to about $41 a square foot a year. At One Columbus Place rents are somewhat higher, but "it's hard to get $45 a foot," Ms. Rotkoff said.
In another location, the Resnick Organization said that it completed the rent-up of the 440 market-rate apartments in the Gershwin, at Eighth Avenue and 50th Street, only this month. The process took 11 months and the average rent is $45 a square foot per year, said Scott Resnick, executive managing director. "We have a substantial percentage of singles with incomes over $100,000," Mr. Resnick said.
And Glenwood Management, builder of the recently completed Paramount Tower at 240 East 39th Street, says that its 464 apartments were "99 percent rented" as of May, seven months after the rental program began. Apartments tend to be larger on average than in most new luxury buildings, so that rents, which the company says have averaged $46 a square foot per year, tend to be higher on a dollar basis per apartment than in most other new buildings in east or west midtown.
Most rents ranged from $2,800 to $5,000 a month, said Gary Jacob, executive vice president of Glenwood Management, and most tenants have incomes between $150,000 and $250,000 a year.
Figures worked up by the Real Estate Board of New York last month show that there are 4,000 new market-rate apartments under construction in Manhattan for completion this year, the highest figure since 1989, when there were 4,248 completions.
"When you've got 4,000 luxury rental apartments coming on the market you of course have got to be a little bit concerned whether you're going to find all the tenants you need to rent them out," said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board.
In Manhattan, the tenant of a one-bedroom apartment renting at $45 a square foot a year ($2,625 a month for 700 square feet) probably should have an income of at least $150,000 a year, Mr. Spinola said. This is a recommended rent-to-income ratio of about 21 percent, far lower than the standard 30 percent used elsewhere in the country but an acknowledgment that Manhattan living, housing costs aside, is expensive.
"It's a stretch," conceded Margaret Kuczynski, who moved in January with her husband, Edward, and two children -- Justin, 17, and Alena, 11 -- into a $2,850-a-month apartment at Le Rivage, Rose Associates' reconstruction of a former office building at 21 West Street in lower Manhattan. "But we've been so transient until now that I hope I die here," she said.
Mrs. Kuczynski and her husband, a medical researcher in obstetrics and gynecology at New York University, had been living part-time in a Manhattan rental for four years before they moved to West Street. It took them two and a half years to sell a house they owned in Coconut Grove, Fla., where they lived when Dr. Kuczynski was working in Florida in the early 90's. The family has joined a home-school group to educate their children at home in cooperation with educators and other parents.
The 21 West Street apartments are generally larger than Rose's midtown apartments, and they also have unusually high ceilings. Prices are considerably lower on a square-foot basis than they are in midtown, reflecting both competition from other buildings and the deep tax abatement that the city put in effect to stimulate residential conversions of obsolete office buildings in the financial district.
Apartments at Le Rivage went on the market last year at about $35 a square foot a year ($2,550 for a 900-square-foot one-bedroom and $3,650 for a 1,150-square-foot two-bedroom), and rose to $37 a square foot toward the end of the nine-month renting period ($2,700 for the one-bedroom and $3,850 for the two-bedroom), Rose said.
The financial standards that new renters must meet reflect the developers' sensitivity to the affordability issue. Besides needing a good credit record, incoming tenants generally must show an annual income of anywhere from 40 to 50 times the monthly rent, with different managements holding to different standards. Rose Associates is using the 48 multiple, said Jack Levy, senior managing director for rentals and sales.
This means that the renter of a $2,745-a-month 725-square-foot one bedroom on the 30th floor of the Madison Belvedere, for example, would have to show an annual income of $130,000. To rent a 1,250-square-foot two-bedroom apartment on the 42d floor for $5,075 a month would require an income of $243,000.
Mr. Levy presides as rental director over an inventory of 3,000 Rose Associates apartments, and witnesses a turnover of about 600 apartments a year. Almost all the new renters of two-bedroom apartments have incomes over $180,000 a year, he said.
Moreover, almost all the new renters come in as free-market rather than rent-stabilized tenants, usually because the building's 10-year Section 421a tax abatement has already expired. In pre-1985 Section 421a buildings, apartments are deregulated when the regulated tenant moves out. In post-1985 Section 421a buildings, apartments are deregulated after 10 years even with the regulated tenant in place.
IN buildings that were converted to co-ops or condominiums all rental apartments are decontrolled after a vacancy, and in pure-rental buildings they are decontrolled if the first rent after vacancy exceeds $2,000. Two-thirds of the Rose Associates rental inventory is now free market, and one-third remains rent-stabilized, Mr. Levy said.
On average, 20 percent of the free-market apartments become vacant every year, and probably three-quarters of the re-rentals each year are of apartments that were already deregulated before the vacancy. "People's lives change," Mr. Levy said. "Some people are sharing and they later want their own home. Other people decide to buy an apartment, or a home."
Apart from the issue of affordability, the Madison Belvedere represents architecturally a style of building that is gradually being phased out in Manhattan -- the straight tower behind a street-level plaza.
The Madison Belvedere is on a 21,000-square-foot lot in a zone that with no bonuses would have allowed only 220,000 square feet of construction on the building lot itself. But the project got a bonus for its 12,700-square-foot public plaza (though not the full 20 percent that zoning allows, since that large a plaza was impractical) and also additional development rights from neighboring properties -- the Carlton Hotel and two other buildings. It also got a bonus of 9,300 square feet for including four apartments for low-income tenants.
The resulting 48-story project has 348,000 gross square feet of space and is built to a floor-area ratio, or FAR, of 11 on its zoning lot, less than the 12 FAR allowable. The floor-area ratio of the project to the property on which it stands, however, is 16.6.
The architect is the firm of Schuman Lichtenstein Claman Efron, with James S. Davison, a senior partner, as design architect. The building's landscaped public plaza, facing 28th Street, has been designed by Thomas Balsley of Manhattan.
"It may be the last of its genre," said Mr. Davison. The "tower in the park" style, in conjunction with unrestricted transfers of development rights from adjacent lots, sometimes lends itself well to extremely tall buildings, sometimes resembling an intruder in the environment.
The tallest of all has gone into construction on First Avenue between 47th to 48th Streets north of the United Nations complex. The Trump Organization is building a condominium there that is to be 861 feet tall to the top of its squared-off superstructure. It will have 72 floors, many of them with ceiling heights of 10 or 13 feet.
Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the City Planning Commission (and Adam Rose's cousin), alluded to this project in a speech last April in which he condemned the "trail of exceptions, caveats and interpretive gymnastics" that tower-in-the-park zoning had spawned. He said that a new set of bulk regulations would soon be proposed to respond to this problem, while still allowing zoning to provide for growth and change.
The Madison Belvedere will be 454 feet tall from street level to the main roof (and 554 feet to the top of its decorative crown). Among new buildings at or near completion, only Glenwood Management's Paramount Tower is in its height class. It is 51 stories high -- 526 feet to the main roof and 567 feet to the top of its superstructure. For zoning purposes, "height of the building" traditionally means the height to the main roof.
For Rose Associates, the $150 million Madison Belvedere marks another step in what might be called an overhaul of the residential inventory. The company undertook a major co-op conversion program in the early 90's, converting nine buildings and selling, in the first two years, about 600 apartments for about $100 million.
The conversion effort required new investment in old buildings and ultimately cost as much as it brought in during those years, said Mr. Rose, who led the campaign with his cousin Amy Rose, a managing director of the company. Rose Associates has kept the management of all these buildings, even though they are now controlled by the residents. It has continued to sell renter-occupied apartments upon vacancy of a regulated tenant, but still holds 900 apartments in these buildings. "The cash flow from our ongoing sales fuels our new development," said Mr. Rose.
Mr. Rose, 40, succeeded his uncle, Daniel Rose, now vice chairman of the company, as president last December. His father, Frederick P. Rose, continues as chairman, taking a hands-on role in new construction.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Madison Belvedere, going up at 10 East 29th Street.
(Ray Jackson/Bernstein Associates Photographers) The Gershwin, at Eighth and 50th. (Marilyn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Residential conversion from office building at 21 West Street by Rose Associates. Rents are significantly lower than in midtown. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NQE (AMEX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: ROSE ASSOCIATES; ZUCKER ORGANIZATION SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROSE ASSOCIATES; ZUCKER ORGANIZATION

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (71%); ENGINEERING (71%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S ANDRE ABUCHAM (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



160 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: ON THE JOB;
The DesktopFollies

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

 BODY:
Ah, the age of the computer. Remember the dream? The computer would be a work saver, a herald of the paperless office, a docile servant eager to lift burdens, solve problems, increase productivity and leave time for creative thinking. But some dreams, it appears, include comic nightmares.
 "Several years ago in my space agency office, we younger engineers saw the need to develop an award system for the most egregious computer malfunctions," writes Karen Bernstein of Houston, who works for NASA at the Johnson Space Center. 
 "We named the simple plaque award after one of the older guys in the office, a gentleman who never really got the hang of theelectronic age," she says. "The plaque was passed from desk to desk by a kind of informal laugh meter that measured the level of hysterical snickers following a computer disaster."
Once, while Ms. Bernstein was trying to delete a few documents from her computer, she was in the wrong directory when she typed in a command. The move, she says, "killed my hard drive forever." The award moved to her desk.
A colleague received the prize "for making smoke come out of her C.P.U.," she says. "We still don't know how that happened."
Someone else in the office called the "help" desk because his computer wouldn't stop beeping -- at least not until "he took the book off of his keyboard and released the pressure on the letter 'L,' " Ms. Bernstein says.
But she adds that her favorite award story was about a friend who needed to print a sketch of some special space agency hardware.
"We have a plotter in our building," she writes. "This is a printer that uses a large roll of paper and can print graphic images of any size." Her friend, she says, "sent a print command to the plotter to draw a picture of the International Space Station. Full scale."
"The laughter continues to this day," she adds, "and the award has been permanently retired."
About five years ago, Gerald Zuckier of New Haven was working for a health maintenance organization that was in the middle of a drive to sign up some new service providers.
In response to their applications, several of them received a letter that said, "Thank you for your application; we will be contacting you just as soon as we complete processing."
There was just one hitch. The bottom of each letter displayed the file name for the master copy. It read: "C:/letters/rejection. doc."
Steven E. de Souza of Santa Monica, Calif., a Hollywood screenwriter and director whose writing credits include "48 Hours" and "Die Hard," likes to remember what he calls "the infamously hectic writing" for the 1994 film version of "The Flintstones."
In one version of the screenplay, the slick villain, to be played by Kyle MacLachlan, was named Phil Lava.
"Before shooting, someone decided 'Jerry Lava' was catchier," Mr. de Souza says. "Simple global replace. No problem, except that the Philadelphia joke in the script (there's always a Philadelphia joke in a comedy) became Jerrydelphia.
"P.S.: In the end, he was called Cliff Vandercave."
David J. Kaplan of Gillette, N.J., who works for CBS, spotted something amiss on the stub of his computer-issued paycheck, so he decided to dial the appropriate extension to help resolve the problem.
When he did, he says, he learned just how testy computers can be. He received this automated greeting:
"Welcome to the CBS benefits office. Goodbye!"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (65%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (50%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (57%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (57%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); TEXAS, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (65%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (89%); WRITERS (76%); SPACECRAFT (71%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); SPACE STATIONS (71%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); FILM DIRECTORS (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: KAREN BERNSTEIN (75%); STEVEN E DE SOUZA (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



161 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: HOUSING;
Residents Hold the Cards In Land War With Bank

BYLINE: By KIRSTY SUCATO 

DATELINE: HOLMDEL

 BODY:
In a state that loses 25,000 acres of land to development each year, local battles to preserve open space are about as common as Fourth of July picnics.
Take this wealthy suburb in Monmouth County, which is now warring over the fate of its largest remaining parcel of open space: a 416-acre historic farmstead scheduled for development as housing for the elderly. The arguments are familiar, pitting conservation against the economic benefits of building. Indeed, in this section of the state, the tract has become a symbol of encroaching suburban sprawl. 
 But what is unusual in this case is that the town is asking residents to decide what to do with the land, a process often left quietly to planners and lawyers. In a nonbinding survey mailed to about 5,000 property owners in April, taxpayers were offered four choices ranging from total development to conservation. As officials await the results, due to be released next week, nobody is sure which way the votes will fall.
"I don't really have a gut feeling on this," said Sharon Burnham, the executive director of the Monmouth Conservation Foundation, which has taken a lead role in lobbying to preserve the land. "What I'm hoping is that the residents of Holmdel can see through the propaganda and understand what they are really agreeing to."
The farm, a vast quilt of rolling fields segmented by dirt roads, century-old trees and brooks, is owned by the Chase Manhattan Bank, which paid $23 million in 1986 and 1987 for the tract with the intention of building a million-square-foot office campus. The site, on Holmdel Road, was zoned for offices and laboratories, and it offered the potential for another million square feet of building, enough eventually to house 3,500 employees, said Cesar J. Chekijian, who is in charge of corporate real estate for the bank.
Although Chase won preliminary approval for the project, it never went ahead with it, preferring instead to build a two-million-square-foot office park in Brooklyn and leasing the land here to a local farmer, Mr. Chekijian said.
The company's position changed drastically in 1994, when the town rezoned much of the undeveloped southern portion of the township, including half of the Chase tract, to prohibit offices and laboratories. The new law, which allowed one house on every four acres and denser housing in other sections, came as a backlash to a wave of approvals for large development projects in the late 1980's and early 90's, said Holmdel's mayor, David T. Chai.
"It was a revolt against the office space," Mr. Chai said.
Chase filed suit shortly afterward, alleging discriminatory zoning.
"It made it obsolete strategically for us, or anyone like us, to build support functions there," Mr. Chekijian said. "We had the right and the right was taken away."
Under the lawsuit, which is due to be heard on Sept. 21 by Monmouth County Superior Court Judge Robert Feldman, Chase is seeking approval to build its two-million-square foot campus. An alternative, which the company says would settle the suit and allow it to recoup its investment of now more than $25 million, is to sell the land to a developer.
The builder, Howard Schoor, chairman of S.G.S. Communities Inc. of Manalapan, has signed a contract with Chase, pending approval, to build a community for the elderly with 475 single-family homes priced from $250,000 to more than $400,000, a pool, tennis courts and clubhouse. In the latest of at least five versions of its plan, S.G.S. would donate 132.9 acres to the county for preservation, including a historic farmhouse, Mr. Schoor said.
"We've been looking for balance," Mr. Schoor said. "That's been our theme. Positive tax ratables and a provision for open space."
Holmdel officials initially welcomed the plan because it would not only end the litigation, but also increase the tax rolls by about $3.5 million a year, Mayor Chai said. Because the development would be restricted to people 55 years of age or older, Holmdel's prized schools would be spared an influx of children. The developer would also help pay for sewer lines in the largely undeveloped southern section of Holmdel, which still relies on septic systems, he said. But a group of residents has opposed the project, saying it will spoil a valuable resource and invite further sprawl. "If this goes, so goes the southern half of Holmdel," Ms. Burnham said.
Larry Fink, a founder of the Citizens for Informed Land Use, a group of several hundred Holmdel residents and supporters who oppose the development, said the farm is just the kind of open space that the state should be trying to protect.
Part of an original 1677 land grant to the Holmes family, for whom Holmdel is named, the property is part of the watershed of the Swimming River Reservoir, the source of water for northern and central Monmouth County residents. In addition, the land is a rich habitat for plants and birds like the bald eagle, the barred owl and the grasshopper sparrow. It also serves as a greenway, or link, in a chain of more than 1,200 acres of open space, including two county parks, two township parks, and a nature trail, Mr. Fink said.
"The qualities of this site are unique in Holmdel and Monmouth County," he said. "This is our pinelands, our highlands, our Sterling Forest. Why shouldn't the Chase tract be preserved?"
Conservationists scoff at the assumption that development will reduce property taxes. A survey commissioned by the Monmouth Conservation Foundation last year found that for every dollar Holmdel billed in residential taxes, it spent $1.38 on services like schools, sewers and the police. By contrast, it spent 66 cents for every dollar it earned on open space and 21 cents on commercial development.
For his part, Mr. Schoor contends that an age-restricted development will not affect school taxes, which account for much of Holmdel's budget. But opponents cite an increased need for emergency services for elderly residents. Also, retirement homes tend to attract local residents, who, in turn, are likely to sell their homes to people with school-age children, said Jeff Tittel, the director of the New Jersey Chapter of the Sierra Club.
"There will be financial impacts," Mr. Tittel said. "The best ratable of all is open space. It pays taxes and costs no services."
But preservation of the tract is not as easy as it may seem. Chase refuses to negotiate with other would-be buyers for fear it will appear to be breaking faith with Mr. Schoor, Mr. Chekijian said. And the developer's $25 million offer is difficult for conservationists to match.
The Monmouth Conservation Foundation, which has helped preserve 2,700 acres in Monmouth County, could come close to the figure, Ms. Burnham said, by mustering state, county and local financing, selling development rights and subdividing the land as farms.
"If Chase indeed wants to go by their slogan that relationships are everything and they are concerned about the community, then they should listen to what the people want and talk to us about finding a way to preserve this land," she said.
But until the questionnaire comes back, no one is sure what the people want. Residents have a history of backing open space, approving as recently as last year a local tax of one cent per $100 property valuation for parks and recreation.
For now, Mayor Chai said the township committee would be guided by the majority opinion but he could not guess what it would be. Asked how he voted, the Mayor replied, "Emotionally, I am all for these open space folks. But I'm a realist. I have a responsibility to the town. And one of these is taxation."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Schoor, chairman of S.G.S. Communities, has signed a contract with Chase, pending approval, to build a community for the elderly with 475 single-family homes priced from $250,000 to more than $400,000, a pool, tennis courts and clubhouse. (Frank C. Dougherty)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP CHASE MANHATTAN BANK NORGE AS (54%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA (54%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK FRANCE (54%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: HOLMDEL (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; LAND USE POLICIES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; HOUSING; AGED SUBURBS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ZONING (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); MAYORS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); APPROVALS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); LAWYERS (71%); AGING (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: SUCATO, KIRSTY DAVID T CHAI (62%); CESAR J CHEKIJIAN (60%); HOWARD SCHOOR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



162 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 7; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: SCHOOLS;
Concerned by Loss of College Students, State Tries to Makes Rutgers Alluring

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN 

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
When Jessica Roberts was considering colleges, Rutgers University was the last place she thought about. Like many high school seniors in New Jersey, she was planning to go out of state.
"It's the New Jersey instinct to flee the state," Ms. Roberts, a sophomore, said recently in her dormitory at Rutgers as she waited for her father to pick her up for the drive home to Denville at the end of the school year. "Most kids say, 'Oh, I just can't go to a school in my home state.' I had my sight set on other places." 
 But through an attractive financial arrangement that Rutgers offers to honors students, Ms. Roberts was persuaded to come here rather than attend such schools as Vassar, Wesleyan and Swarthmore. It is a decision she says she does not regret.
Through her choice, she became part of the fledgling effort to stem New Jersey's drain of college students, a phenomenon that is worrisome to state officials. In the fall of 1996, according to the Department of Education, 65,904 new high school graduates went on to college, but 24,439 of them attended colleges and universities outside of the state. That is a higher number than from any other state, and it is a trend that has been becoming more pronounced each year.
Experts such as Joseph J. Seneca, chairman of the Governor's Economic Policy Council, say the migration of the college-age population is hurting the state economically.
"In a very direct way, it means a loss of tuition, a loss of book dollars and all other expenditures associated with going to college that are not being spent in New Jersey," Dr. Seneca said.
Those costs come to about $1.8 billion a year, he said in a report the council prepared in 1992 called "Outmigration of New Jersey College Students: Causes and Consequences."
"But I wouldn't characterize that as the most profound effect to the state," said Dr. Seneca, who is also an economist and vice president for academic affairs at Rutgers. "The loss of human capacity is more important. We are sending a large number of our best and brightest out of state, and many of them are not coming back."
His report showed that about 70 percent of students who attend college out of state do not return to live in New Jersey after they graduate.
Dr. Seneca pointed out that with an economy that is knowledge-based -- with high-technology industries, research companies, and pharmaceuticals manufacturers -- the state needs a highly trained work force. As unemployment goes down around the country, fewer people are willing to relocate, he said, and the pressure for New Jersey to train its own citizens becomes more important.
At the same time that so many students were leaving for out-of-state colleges and universities, only 4,434 college students came to New Jersey from elsewhere to attend college in 1996, according to the Department of Education.
That compares poorly with other states that not only keep most of their students, but also attract large numbers from out of state. For instance, California lost 17,677 of its 277,373 students to out-of-state colleges in 1996, but attracted 17,703 from other states. In Michigan, 7,021 of 75,980 freshmen chose out-of-state schools but 7,257 students came from elsewhere.
Why do so many New Jerseyans choose out-of-state colleges? Part of the answer has to do with geography. In such a small state, and one near other states with outstanding schools, it is natural that students consider their options. Statistics compiled by the United States Department of Education show that about three-fourths of New Jersey's migrating students attend colleges within a 250-mile radius of Trenton -- Pennsylvania, New York, Massachusetts, Virginia, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Connecticut and Rhode Island.
"This is also a high-income state, so families here have the wherewithal to consider sending their children to private schools or to pay out-of-state tuition somewhere else," Dr. Seneca said.
But the loss to other states also has to say something about the scarcity of choices in the Garden State.
Jae Lee, 21, a sophomore sociology major, said he applied to out-of-state schools, but decided on Rutgers because undergraduate tuition is only $4,562 a year as against more than $20,000 for an Ivy League education.
"Initially I regretted staying in-state," he said as he sat in front of the student center, preparing for a sociology final. "I felt that a lot of people didn't want to be here, and that I had missed out on an opportunity to be with an elite group I might have been with at some of the Ivy Leagues. But not anymore. I've come to realize this is a personal choice. Rutgers is a good school. It's what you make of it."
To try to retain quality students, Rutgers developed the Outstanding Scholars Program two years ago, with financing from the State Legislature, to offer more financial incentives to attract high-achievers.
The program is open to students who score a total of 1350 or more on their College Boards and who rank in the top 15 percent of their class, said Nancy Winterbauer, vice president of enrollment at Rutgers. On average, only 7 percent of New Jersey students qualify each year.
The legislation, sponsored by State Senator Peter A. Inverso, Republican of Hamilton, has set aside $9 million a year for the program, which awards scholarships up to $7,500 a year for a student attending Rutgers, covering tuition as well as housing and books.
John Padden, an 18-year-old from Florham Park majoring in math and music, is one of the scholarship recipients. He said he would have attended Johns Hopkins University had it not been for the financial award from Rutgers.
"The money I would have spent there would have been outrageous," Mr. Padden said. "It's really a shame more kids who qualify don't take advantage of this program. Rutger's reputation is way below what it really should be."
The scholarships were awarded to 712 freshmen this year, Dr. Winterbauer said; the previous year 685 students got the awards. For next fall, the school has offered the scholarships to 805 students, which would make it one of the biggest scholarship programs ever in New Jersey for academic achievement.
In a survey of parents of scholarship recipients, 62 percent told the school their children would have gone out of state had it not been for the scholarship.
"I think it's important for us to say to students that academic achievement matters, that Rutgers values it, that the state values it," Dr. Winterbauer said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Initially I regretted staying in-state," said Jae Lee, left, at the Rutgers Student Center, who considered Ivy League schools. He decided on Rutgers because of the low tuition. (Photographs by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TRENDS (76%); LABOR FORCE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA JOSEPH C PAPA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



163 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 5; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: ROAD & RAIL;
Costly Battle Over a 'World-Class' View

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

DATELINE: WEEHAWKEN

 BODY:
The top of the Empire State Building hints at the view of midtown Manhattan as its art deco spire peers from above Weehawken's bluffs. But the real moment of visual impact comes moments later -- many moments, if traffic is bad -- as motorists enter the oval viaduct that siphons cars, trucks and buses down and around into the Lincol Tunnel's arching maws.
It is at that moment, still high above the sprawling toll plaza and curling around the portion of roadway known to local denizens as the helix, that a southeasterly view opens up on all of lower Manhattan. 
 "It's a national treasure," said Rick Kropp, director of land useat the state Department of Environmental Protection. "The view of Manhattan is one of those things that should be preserved."
To insure its preservation, the department has denied an application by Hartz Mountain Industries to construct two office buildings just east of the helix, at the company's Lincoln Harbor complex on the Weehawken waterfront. Other opponents of the 160-foot-tall structures include and environmentalists and local activists from the American Littoral Society and the Friends of the Weehawken Waterfront.
On March 1, an administrative law judge, Richard McGill, recommended that the commissioner of environmental protection, Robert C. Shinn Jr., reject Hartz's application. "The views in question are a world-class amenity that encourages people to live work and locate businesses in the area," Judge McGill wrote in his decision.
Emanuel Stern, the president of Hartz Mountain, insists that the buildings would obscure only part of the river and New York Bay, not the skyline.
Under state guidelines, buildings require permits from the Department of Environmental Protection's division of coastal resources if the proposed location is within 500 feet of the Hudson River. But Hartz's lawyer, Irwin Horowitz, said the agency's reason for denying the permits -- that the view would be obscured -- is faulty because the helix is beyond 500 feet of the river.
"The D.E.P. is trying to expand its jurisdiction," Mr. Horowitz said. "The irony is, if New York did the same thing, there wouldn't be any view to protect."
Indeed, New York City has no regulations protecting views, according to a spokeswoman for the Department of City Planning. Nor does the Federal Environmental Protection Agency.
So far, time and the law have been on the side of Hartz's opponents. Typical of the protracted battle, Mr. Shinn's original 45-day period to act on the judge's recommendation to reject Haretz Mountain's application has been extended twice, and he now has until Aug. 5. But even that deadline matters little, both sides agree, because the enviromental director's decision will be appealed.
The battle over the panorama of Manhattan's West Side pits one of the country's biggest commercial real estate developers against the administration of Governor Whitman, a potential Republican candidate for United States Senate next year who counts economic growth and environmental protection as cornerstones of her record.
Hartz, a Secaucus-based conglomerate built on flea collars whose holdings include The Village Voice, has one of the country's largest privately held commercial real estate portfolios, with 32 million square feet, mostly in New Jersey, Mr. Stern said.
Over the last 15 years, the company has contributed thousands of dollars to Republicans and Democrats, including former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, whose administration tried unsuccessfully to permit construction of the two proposed office buildings, and Governor Whitman, whose administration has fought them. Mr. Stern said Hartz has also contributed to local candidates, including Mayor Richard Turner of Weehawken.
Hartz first applied for a building permit in 1988 from the Department of Environmental Protection's Division of Coastal Resources. The staff had drafted a denial of the permit, but a predecessor of Mr. Shinn, Christopher J. Daggett, who was Governor Kean's environmental commissioner, granted the permit in 1989. Mr. Daggett wrote at the time that the view amounted to a "momentary glimpse" of the city.
But the American Littoral Society, a national environmental group based in Sandy Hook, persuaded the appellate division of State Superior Court to overturn Mr. Daggett's decision on the ground that his intervention violated procedures. Hartz reapplied in 1991, and this time was denied a permit by the environmental agency's Coastal Resources division. The company appealed the decision, but during the litigation the real estate market collapsed and the project no longer was urgent to Hartz. Judge McGill's decision in March was the latest round in the application fight.
In an interview, Mr. Stern insisted that a defeat for Hartz could establish a dangerous precedent for property rights cases. "This sort of regulation will prohibit all manner of private property development where waterfront views are interrupted," he said.
But another big developer of New Jersey's waterfront, Richard LeFrak, president of the Lefrak Organization, had little sympathy for Hartz.
"If you say to me, 'Are the Sterns being discriminated against?' My answer is, everybody's being discriminated against. Those are the rules," said Mr. LeFrak, who this month broke ground on a 22-story office building at the company's Newport complex, situated between the Holland Tunnel and the Jersey City waterfront.
Mr. Stern puts the price of that discrimination at $63 million, the amount he says Hartz has lost, mainly in rent never collected. For area contractors, he said, construction spending on the two buildings, which would total 944,000 square feet, would be more than $150 million. For the economy, he said, the buildings would provide permanent jobs for about 2,000 people.
If Hartz has any sympathizers, they are at Borough Hall. The Weehawken Planning Board approved the entire Lincoln Harbor complex, including the two buildings. Mayor Turner, who was elected in 1990, after the complex was approved, said Lincoln Harbor's two existing blue-glass office buildings have generated $4 million in local property taxes since their completion in the late 1980's. Commuters on the helix generate carbon monoxide, noise and litter, he said.
But Mayor Turner has grown weary of the dispute, and he said he hopes a compromise can be reached. "Everybody's fighting for their principles, and that's all very well and fine," Mayor Turner said. "In the meantime, a small town has a very valuable piece of its property where nothing is happening."
Mr. Stern said the company has already provided certain amenities at Lincoln Harbor, like a waterfront walkway, and that he is willing to negotiate if he can proceed with construction of the buildings.
Claire Burke, a spokeswoman for the Friends of the Weehawken Waterfront, one of several groups opposed to the buildings, said preserving the view is fundamentally important for Weehawken, whose image is literally framed by the Manhattan skyline.
"That's the first view of New York that many people see when they drive here from the West," said Ms. Burke, 61, a longtime resident. "It serves as a psychological uplifter for people when they come in. I used to be a commuter for 32 years, and there's something about that vista, that horizon, that doesn't belong to Hartz Mountain. It belongs to the world."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wrangling over the panorama of Manhattan seen from the helix, foreground (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times), has cost $63 million in rent and $150 million in construction spending, says Emanuel Stern, below. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (56%); AMERICAN LITTORAL SOCIETY (55%); AMERICAN LITTORAL SOCIETY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES AMERICAN LITTORAL SOCIETY (55%); AMERICAN LITTORAL SOCIETY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HUDSON RIVER; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; LAND USE POLICIES; LINCOLN TUNNEL ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); JUDGES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); RIVERS (64%); CITIES (60%); 

PERSON: STRUNSKY, STEVE EMANUEL STERN (69%); ROBERT C SHINN JR (59%); CHRISTOPHER J DAGGETT (58%); RICHARD MCGILL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



164 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
All the Places That Stay Open After Brokers and Lawyers Leave

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA McGINLEY 

 BODY:
To dispel the myth that a) there are only a handful of amenities in lower Manhattan, and b) that handful is closed on weekends, the Downtown Alliance has published "Destination Downtown: A Guide to Lower Manhattan." The pamphlet lists names, phone numbers and addresses of more than 1,100 businesses and services from Chambers Street to Battery Park: museums and messenger services, Caribbean restaurants and community organizations. Establishments that remain open on weekends are marked. The publication is free and one can get a copy by visiting http://www. downtownny.com or calling (212) 835-2767. ALEXANDRA McGINLEY 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DOWNTOWN ALLIANCE NEW YORKERS&CO (61%); CARIBBEAN RESTAURANTS INC (56%); DOWNTOWN ALLIANCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOWNTOWN ALLIANCE DOWNTOWN ALLIANCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (53%); 

PERSON: MCGINLEY, ALEXANDRA ALEXANDRA MCGINLEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1999



165 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: MAY 31-JUNE 4;
The Interest-Rate Watch Continues

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
Until the unemployment report on Friday, investors, worried that the economy might be growing fast enough to prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates, appeared to be playing ring around the rosy. But before anyone could fall down, markets rebounded in the United States and overseas.
 
 The Labor Department reported that jobs were created in May at a much slower pace than expected, while the jobless rate fell to 4.2 percent, from 4.3 percent in April. Meanwhile, average hourly earnings, a closely watched barometer of inflation, jumped 5 cents.
 "The market is trying to find its bearings to get a reading about what the Fed is going to do," Arun Kumar, senior United States equities strategist at Lehman Brothers, told Reuters on Friday.
 Robert Streed, a money manager with the Northern Trust Company, told Bloomberg News, "I would think the market has priced in a quarter-point interest-rate rise."
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 2 percent, to 10,789.84; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 2 percent, to 1,327.75, and the Nasdaq climbed slightly, to 2,478.34. Shares were mostly higher overseas. MICKEY MEECE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
Honeywell
NYSE: HON
Shares of the automated-controls maker rose on speculation that Allied Signal, the maker of flight-safety systems, was planning to buy it. Analysts valued an acquisition of Honeywell at about $15 billion.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $105.00
WEEK'S CHANGE +12.83%
EST. '99 P/E 20.99
 
Insight Health Serv.
NASDAQ: IHSC
The diagnostic-imaging company said a $28.6 million buyout offer had been withdrawn by the Carlyle Group and the Halifax Group. The two investors cited other business opportunities available to the company.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $7.1875
WEEK'S CHANGE -12.21%
EST. '99 P/E 12.83
 
Nucor
NYSE: NUE
The vice chairman and chief executive of the fast-growing steel company resigned unexpectedly over a change in corporate strategy. Nucor named a successor and said there would be little change short term.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $46.4375
WEEK'S CHANGE -7.82%
EST. '99 P/E 19.87
 
DIALOGIC
NNM: DLGC
Intel agreed to buy Dialogic for about $780 million in cash to compete in the telecommunications network market. The chip maker will pay $44 for each Dialogic share, a 30 percent premium.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $43.46875
WEEK'S CHANGE +39.10%
EST. '99 P/E 25.11
 
Pohang Iron
NYSE: PKX (A.D.R.'s)
The Korea Economic Daily reported that the South Korean Government may sell an additional 10 percent of Pohang Iron and Steel, the world's largest steel-maker, but the Government denied the report.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $29.00
WEEK'S CHANGE +18.67%
EST. '99 P/E 13.30
 
Intelidata Technol.
NNM: INTD
Home Financial Network and Intelidata, a bill payment and home banking provider, called off merger talks. Instead, they are concentrating on forming a joint venture to sell Internet banking and bill payment products.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $1.96875
WEEK'S CHANGE -48.36%
EST. '99 P/E 28.13
 
Biomatrix
NYSE:BXM
Shares drop on a report that sales of the company's injected-arthritis drug treatment fell. IMS Health, which tracks drug sales, said Biomatrix sold $6.3 million of the drug in April, down from $10.4 million in March.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $24.4375
WEEK'S CHANGE -23.03%
EST. '99 P/E 27.80
 
Telebank Financial
NNM: TBFC
E*Trade Group, the No. 2 on-line brokerage firm, agreed to buy the bank, which conducts business over the Internet and by telephone, for about $1.8 billion in stock. Buying a bank gives E*Trade a way to sell other services.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $72.125
WEEK'S CHANGE +15.86%
EST. '99 P/E 253.96
 
Source: Bloomberg Finanical Markets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999



166 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2; Page 25; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC;
A Hand-Me-Down 'Ring' Attracts A Star Director

BYLINE: By MATTHEW GUREWITSCH; Matthew Gurewitsch's most recent article for Arts and Leisure was on Shakespeare in current films.

 BODY:
ONCE again, the Wagnerites are descending on San Francisco for the four-day spiritual adventure that is the "Ring of the Nibelung," offered in four overlapping cycles, beginning on Wednesday. The production, unveiled in 1985, last saw service in 1990. Of the original principals, the Wotan of James Morris remains. Along with the new cast of other gods, giants, dwarves and assorted demigods -- among them, the redoubtable Jane Eaglen as Brunnhilde -- the current edition also introduces a new director, Andrei Serban.
For an original director, in this case Nikolaus Lehnhoff, to hand off a revival, even such an important one as this, is hardly unprecedented. In general, though, the grunt work of remounting the show falls to someone lower on the totem pole, not always with happy results. In 1989, Andrew Porter, then the music critic of The New Yorker, took the Metropolitan Opera to task for entrusting its first full traversals of its latest "Ring" cycle (several seasons in the making) to a lieutenant. Mr. Porter found little to admire in the concept of Otto Schenk, whose name was on the show, but it was the staff director Phebe Berkowitz, the subaltern, who bore the brunt of his indignation. His report ran under the headline "The Berkowitz Ring," a whole world of disapproval folded into the syllables of her surname. 
 Given how large the "Ring" looms in a director's resume and how great a reputation Mr. Serban enjoys in his own right, his willingness to accept a hand-me-down seems surprising in the extreme. Caught by telephone between rehearsals in San Francisco, he could only agree.
"I surprised myself by saying yes," Mr. Serban said. "I've never done anything like this before and will never again. But I thought, how often in life is one offered a 'Ring'?"
It was mid-May, with opening night just three weeks off. Mr. Morris had begun rehearsals only the day before. Ms. Eaglen would not arrive for another week. Deborah Voigt, the Sieglinde, would cut it even closer -- but then, she appears only in "Die Walkure," the second day of the "Ring." Yet Mr. Serban, who has never seen a complete "Ring" cycle in the opera house, had been operating at full tilt for several weeks with artists of the second cast (scheduled to sing in the third cycle): Jeffrey Wells and Alan Held, sharing the role of Wotan, devious chieftain of the gods; Frances Ginzer as his disobedient daughter Brunnhilde. In a given day, Mr. Serban said, he might work on "Das Rheingold" in the morning, "Die Walkure" in the afternoon and "Siegfried" in the evening: a sequence he likened to "Hamlet,""King Lear" and "A Midsummer Night's Dream."
"I'm as innocent in this as Siegfried was, but I hope I'll be a little more victorious than he," Mr. Serban said. "I spent six months preparing to do this production, but it's in rehearsal that I discover. Right now, I'm working like a doctor for a Broadway show. Every day, the assistants -- a separate set for each opera, a whole battalion -- show me the blocking as it used to be done. I watch and immediately see possibilities. Then I start interfering. By the end of rehearsal, the physical shape the scene takes is 95 to 100 percent different from what it used to be."
What of the visuals? In good post-modern fashion, John Conklin's original designs incorporated multiple strands of reference. The four parts of the cycle were tied to the four seasons, from a "Rheingold" primavera to an icebound "Gotterdammerung." The architecture took up monumental motifs of the 19th century. Much of this, Mr. Serban disclosed, will disappear. Mr. Conklin, according to the tape on his answering machine, was off on a new project in Sydney, Australia. Responsibility for revised sets and costumes lies with Robert Perziola, but as Mr. Serban made clear, funds for any major overhaul are not there.
"Reminiscences of the Conklin sets will remain, but the whole will be much, much simpler," Mr. Serban promised. "Sometimes, budget permitting, I've tried to bring in a different look. We're trying to purify what seemed to me overcharged and overcrowded."
Following the lead of Patrice Che reau and his centennial "Ring" for the festival at Bayreuth, which opened in 1876 with the premiere of the master's maximum opus, Mr. Lehnhoff and Mr. Conklin refracted the material through a sort of Marxist prism, emphasizing the economic and political conflict. (The concept was not new. George Bernard Shaw made the case for it before the turn of the 20th century.) Thus, as first conceived, the San Francisco "Ring" took its place proudly within a recognized intellectual tradition.
Mr. Serban knows his theater history and does not mind acknowledging his predecessors. "Why hide an influence?" he asked. "Being influenced, you bring in something of your own." On his watch, however, the priorities are more intuitive than theoretical. "Concept is not what I'm after, ever," he said. "What I'm after is a moment of living experience." Mr. Serban speaks as a disciple of that guru and seeker of theatrical essences Peter Brook, with whom he spent a formative season in 1971.
ASUBSEQUENT experiment has particular application to Mr. Serban's more recent excursions into opera. His celebrated "Fragments of a Trilogy" presented scenes from Greek tragedy in forgotten (and, in effect, invented) tongues -- incomprehensible except as the actors charged their lines with sharp, specific emotion. And so they did, keening, howling, stabbing with sarcasm, unstrung with woe. This quasi-operatic use of the voice was married to a detailed language of theatrical movement and gesture.
In Mr. Serban's experience, singers are not always apt to use the full arsenal of a nonsinging actor. "They think music alone expresses the drama, but that's not true," Mr. Serban said. "It has to happen through you. That's why the body is so important."
On their first day of rehearsal together, Mr. Serban reports, Mr. Morris (who in a decade and a half has portrayed Wotan for directors of every persuasion) found himself perplexed. "During the long monologue with Brunnhilde, for instance, he's used to sitting on the throne for a long, long time, longer than I thought it should be in a realistic telling." Mr. Serban explained. "I offered suggestions, and he said, 'But I've never done this.' I said, 'Is that bad?' And he said he would have to take it home and think about it. Tomorrow we may have a completely different solution."
It is unlikely, however, that Mr. Morris will wind up back on his throne, internalizing all his inner turmoil. "Physical action is a continuation of the music," Mr. Serban said. "It completes the connection. If I can make a moment of union between music and drama, and can make the singers really be completely alive on the stage, with a new energy, a new dynamic quality: if I can do that, I've already done my job. The symbolism will take care of itself."
Especially, Mr. Serban finds, in Wagner. "In Verdi or Mozart, what goes on in the orchestra is always so much better than what goes on onstage," Mr. Serban said. "It's hard to create an image on the stage with the same power as the incredible music in the orchestra. But in Wagner, a change of tempo or a crescendo will prompt me to show something in the relationship between the characters. What's in the orchestra is so absolutely logical. It's a musical narrative. It's epic music. It tells you what to do."
The creator draws the map, in other words. All the performers need to do is take the journey. In this conviction, Mr. Serban stands apart not only from Mr. Lehnhoff, whose staging of an opera is commentary made visible, but also from Zen masters like Robert Wilson, who create parallel events that converge with the score only incidentally (or in the eye of the beholder). Thus, whether the outward differences between earlier editions of the Lehnhoff "Ring" and its latest revival turn out to be as conspicuous as they look to the director or so subtle as to go unnoticed -- after all, no one has seen this show in nine years -- the results will have been achieved by a fundamentally different process.
"Kinder, schafft Neues," Wagner urged his disciples late in life: Children, create something new. What exactly he had in mind has been much debated (though he certainly did not mean that they should leave his own works behind). The injunction has become the motto of iconoclastic directors itching to leave their mark on what may well be the most protean allegory in the Western canon.
"I would never put my signature on this production," Mr. Serban said with becoming modesty. In the brochures, his name appears below those of the production's originators. Yet in spirit, he is making a fresh start. And therein lies the promise of something new. A Serban "Ring," perhaps? No irony intended.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 6 about Andrei Serban's new staging of Wagner's "Ring of the Nibelung" misidentified the production's set and costume designers. The sets were created by John Coyne and the costumes by Bob Ringwood; none were by Robert Perziola.
 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrei Serban finds that Wagner's music tells a director what to do. (Terrence McCarthy/San Francisco Opera)(pg. 28); Andrei Serban, standing, directs Kristine Ciesinski and Mark Baker in a rehearsal of Wagner's "Ring" in San Francisco. (Terrence McCarthy/San Francisco Opera)(pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: RING DES NIBELUNGEN (OPERA CYCLE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO OPERA SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO OPERA SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA OPERA (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); MUSIC REVIEWS (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); 

PERSON: GUREWITSCH, MATTHEW; LEHNHOFF, NIKOLAUS; SERBAN, ANDREI ANDREI GEORGE SERBAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



167 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14WC;Page 1;Column 2;Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: New Arts Space Keeps Faith With White Plains

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
THE Westchester Arts Council has had many homes here: a cramped second-story walkup, the balcony of a train station, a converted armory, a corporate high-rise and a quaint Victorian house, isolated amid a sea of parking lots in the backyard of the business district. Now the council, a private, nonprofit organization serving hundreds of arts groups, artists and schools, has settled into its latest White Plains headquarters: a historic bank building in the slow-paced heart of the city.
The move represents far more than a change in location for the 34-year-old organization. It also symbolizes the hope, one of many, for the revitalization of downtown White Plains; specifically, the council hopes that the building, which it calls the Arts Exchange, will attract artists to the city center and that others will follow. 
 Gone are the cramped spaces, dark hallways and remoteness of former venues. This eight-story, 55,000-square-foot building, formerly owned by Chase Manhattan Bank, sits on Mamaroneck Avenue near the corner of Main Street. It is easy to find and even easier to see as it stretches toward the sky, dwarfing its neighbors. Built in 1928 in quasi-Colonial style, with details like brass doors and stone scrolls, the building offers sweeping views of a green and varied landscape.
"I look out and see downtown White Plains," said Janet T. Langsam, executive director of the arts council, who moved into her third-floor corner office in March. "It's like being in an urban loft in any of the great cities."
Never mind that the neighborhood has been deteriorating for years, plagued by problems similar to those facing other cities around the country. The failure of Mamaroneck Avenue to thrive has been attributed to malls like The Westchester, the departure of Macy's and the frustrations of downtown parking, among other things. If there is a bright spot, it is that prime real estate like the Chase Manhattan building, which was empty for 18 months, provided a rare chance for the arts council to fulfill its dream of becoming a true center for artists in the county's hub.
The bank sold the building to the arts group earlier this year for its market value, $1.35 million, according to Richard O. Jones, a senior vice president of Chase Manhattan and an arts council board member. Under the terms of the agreement, the council will not pay interest or principal on the mortgage for five years while the group seeks financing.
A plan to rent studios, workshops and offices to artists and arts-related businesses is related to an "arts incubator" model established in cities like New Orleans, Harrisburg, Pa., and San Jose, Calif., where low-cost or subsidized spaces and services have generated jobs and revenues for their regions.
First, however, there was the reality: an old building in need of much work. "We got the privilege of buying this building because there were so many things wrong with it," Ms. Langsam joked recently, as construction workers readied the place for its opening event, which was last Friday. The director said she was elated but weary from overseeing electrical and plumbing repairs and other construction work. The work is proceeding with a state grant of $550,000, as well as with a $150,000 loan from Chase Manhattan. State Senator Nicholas A. Spano said the grant recognized the arts council's key role in developing the $54.2 million arts industry in Westchester.
More than 150 artists dodged ladders and debris recently as they transformed six floors of the building into a temporary art gallery. The council decided to open the center Friday night with a fund-raising party for the council's education programs. The event offered Westchester artists an opportunity to gather and sell their work in studio space for the weekend, with 10 percent of sales earmarked for the arts council.
The artists, working in all media, responded to a countywide call for work from Rosemary Cohane Erph, an independent curator. For once on the competitive art scene, Ms. Erph said, since the goal was to be inclusive, the council rejected virtually no work. She coordinated the exhibition, reserving whole rooms for some artists and designating wall spaces for others.
The building was awash in denim as artists, carrying hammers and hooks and lugging their stretched canvases, sculptures and installation pieces, trooped in over a 10-day period to sweep floors, touch up walls and hang their works. Artists who usually labor in isolated studios said they enjoyed the camaraderie as well as the wide open spaces of the light-filled, nearly empty building. (Besides the arts council offices, which occupy one floor, some space is rented to the Alliance Francaise.) Some artists used leftover bank furniture as part of their installations. A sign saying, "Teller training, 6th floor," was still taped to a table.
The artwork is scheduled to be on exhibit for only a night and a day. Arle Sklar-Weinstein of Hastings-on-Hudson stood in a doorway, shaking her head. "This is the equivalent of having a three-week show somewhere," she said, speaking of the effort it took to hang her nearly six-foot tall fabric diptych and other pieces in a room of her own. Not that Ms. Sklar-Weinstein, who combines the traditional art of quilt-making with cutting-edge digital imagery, was complaining. Her room had one dark green suede-like wall, left over from bank days, which provided the perfect foil for her exhibition, "Cave Walls."
"It's very exciting to see these pieces up all at once," she said. "You rarely get a chance to spread it all out like this."
On the first floor, Joe Harris, a Croton-on-Hudson photographer who won the council's 1998 Heathcote Award, was preparing the former main banking room, with its teller's counter, vault area and large clerestory windows, for his exhibition: "Red, White, Black and Blue: A Visual Guide to Slang." Upstairs, Barbara Segal, a Yonkers sculptor who works primarily with stone, positioned her provocative bronze bustiers on a wall.
Another artist, Mary Ann Lomonaco of Larchmont, explained why she had bothered to set up a major show of her handmade paper and fabric works for such a brief show. "The arts council has been quite good to me, so I wanted to be supportive," Ms. Lomonaco said, surveying the group of tribal-like headdresses she had fashioned from kitchen mops. Also, she said, she wanted feedback on her latest work.
Some artists compared the scene with Soho, their eyes gleaming as they envisioned future possibilities. They said they were inspired by the 12-foot-high ceilings, the acres of white walls and the rough, unfinished floors, which had been stripped of five layers of carpeting to rid them of asbestos tiles.
Larry Frankel, a photographer from Harrison who seams together images in 360-degree views, said the building offered a "more vibrant arena" for viewing than the usual gallery.
Margalit Mannor, a photographer whose mysterious abstractions of envelopes have been exhibited in Israel as well as the United States, foresaw a genuine artists' colony, where people working under the same roof would draw creative sustenance from each other. Smiling at the bustling scene around her, Ms. Margalit, who lives in Scarsdale, said there was "a touch of madness" -- madness of the most fertile sort -- about it.
Ms. Langsam, a former painter, appeared frazzled but excited as she supervised the work. The council hopes to rent out a substantial number of offices and studios in the coming months; that means, the director said, that the exhibition extravaganza might never happen again. "This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, because the building hasn't been rented yet," she said. "It's like filling a department store with art."
 
A Long-Term Vision For Transforming Center
THE opening this weekend of the Arts Exchange, as the Westchester Arts Council calls the bank building it now owns on Mamaroneck Avenue in White Plains, is also the start of a 10-year project, Janet T. Langsam, the council's executive director, said.
"We'd like to see a building that's similar to other artists' projects around the country," she said, citing a former torpedo factory in Alexandria, Va., which has been converted to artists' studios, as well as a former cable factory in Helsinki, which is serving the same purpose. "We feel up to it, but it's not going to happen overnight."
Eventually, Ms. Langsam said, she hoped the eight-story building would be filled with rehearsal spaces, areas for poetry readings and performances of works-in-progress, exhibition and meeting spaces and, perhaps, lofts where artists will live as well as work. The council envisions shared resources, like printing presses, video editing equipment and a photography laboratory, which would help cut costs for individual artists and groups.
Another goal is converting the main floor of the former bank, with its high ceiling and high, arched windows, into a gallery.
The council's immediate goal, however, is to make the building -- with its $180,000 in maintenance costs a year -- self-sustaining by the end of the year, Ms. Langsam said. The group plans to achieve this by renting space on a short-term basis to profit-making organizations that may be unrelated to the arts. "We'll do this so we can afford to rent artists the space they need at an affordable price," she said, adding that many artists and groups had already approached her.
Each floor of the 55,000-square-foot building contains 5,700 square feet of usable space, divided into rooms ranging from 250 to 1,250 square feet. The current plan is to charge artists $10 a square foot, nonprofit groups $12 a square foot and profit-making groups $14 to $16 a square foot, Ms. Langsam said. "If someone wants to come in and take a floor, we wouldn't say no," she added. "We're on the third floor, and there are five more floors we'd like to lease out. If we can lease three floors this year, that would be a good goal."
Many music, dance and drama organizations constantly seek rehearsal space in the county, paying hefty prices for professional space or accommodating themselves to awkward schedules and cramped quarters in schools and churches. Ms. Langsam said one of the council's first priorities would be to develop rehearsal spaces for use by groups, first-come-first-served. "We'll have to develop a policy for rental space both per diem and for the long term," she said. ROBERTA HERSHENSON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on June 6 about the new home of the Westchester Arts Council in White Plains omitted the name of an artist whose paintings were being hung. A recent letter from the artist pointed out the omission and identified her as Betsy Glass.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Westchester Arts Council's new building, the Arts Exchange, in White Plains. Artwork being hung in the Westchester Arts Council's new building, left, and Marcy Freedman installing artwork made of tiles, with the help of Nat Katin-Borland. (Photographs by Roberta Hershenson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CMB (NYSE) (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK NORGE AS (55%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA (55%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK FRANCE (55%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE (55%); WESTCHESTER ARTS COUNCIL (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER ARTS COUNCIL (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



168 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 20; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Their Man in Havana

BYLINE: By Carl Hiaasen; Carl Hiaasen is a columnist for The Miami Herald. His new novel, "Sick Puppy," will be published next year.

 BODY:

HAVANA BAY
 By Martin Cruz Smith.
 329 pp. New York:
 Random House. $24.95. 
 ARUSSIAN police detective, forlorn over the death of his wife, decides to kill himself. Yet he wishes to do so privately and tidily, in such a style as not to trouble his friends and colleagues in Moscow. So he chooses sunny, faraway Cuba for his suicide -- a story line worthy of Chekhov. Except that the grief-stricken detective is Arkady Renko, the taciturn hero of "Gorky Park" and "Polar Star," and the Havana that is to be his final destination is nothing like what Chekhov would have imagined. Cuba is tropical, to be sure, and exotically mysterious -- yet also in its way as maddeningly impenetrable and bleak as Moscow frozen into winter.
Renko has been sent to Havana to identify the body of a friend, a Russian Embassy employee found floating in an inner tube. Sergei Pribluda supposedly died of a heart ailment while fishing in the bay, but Renko is politely doubtful. Cuban authorities welcome him to the case as if he were the proverbial cockroach on a wedding cake. Russians were never a beloved presence on the island, but (Renko quickly learns) they have become openly despised since Moscow cut off the gusher of subsidies that had floated Fidel Castro's regime for decades.
Even Yankee imperialists are treated better than Russians in Havana, for at least the Americans bring cash -- and the Cuban economy in Fidel's waning days has become voraciously dependent on United States dollars, an irony that Renko has little time to ponder. He has, after all, come here to kill himself.
It's not the way many novelists would bring back their most popular character -- teetering bleakly on the abyss -- but after a one-book absence we are selfishly happy to see Renko again, in any state of mind, and we are grateful when his suicide attempt is rudely interrupted by a would-be assassin. The vicious and seemingly senseless attack rekindles Renko's professional curiosity. He shelves his gloomy plan for self-destruction and sets off to discover why somebody (besides himself) wants him dead.
It's a richly intricate mystery, made more compelling by its setting. There might be no other city in our time as simultaneously intoxicating and heartbreaking as Old Havana, and Martin Cruz Smith's panorama is both dazzling and dead-on depressing. "This is the first place where time does not exist," a disillusioned ballerina tells Renko. "People have been born and died, yes, but time has not passed because time demands fresh paint, new cars, new clothes."
The Russian's tour guide up and down the Malecon is a wary young Cuban detective, Ofelia Osorio. She is a cool delight, the best of many memorable characters. Loyal to Fidel and the revolution, Osorio will hear none of it when Renko uncovers evidence linking Pribluda's death to a scheme by Castro's Government to defraud Russia of $20 million in a sugar deal. But gradually Osorio softens toward the dogged Renko, and her investigative cleverness leads her to the same trails, if not to the same conclusions. There is indeed a secret plot, but it's much bigger than a sugar scam and involves two shadowy expatriate Americans -- a former airplane hijacker and a Robert Vesco-like fugitive -- and ultimately the Comandante himself.
It is not so farfetched. Vesco himself fled to Cuba, wheeling and dealing until he fell out of favor with Fidel. In 1996 he was convicted of "economic crimes" and sentenced to 13 years in prison. That the hemisphere's most defiantly die-hard Communist would have opened his doors to a capitalist swindler is perversely fitting. Cuba remains a land of boggling contradictions and contrasts. At night the local fishermen, or neumticos, paddle leaky inner tubes into shark-patrolled waters, grateful to snag the scrawniest snapper. Nearby at the Marina Hemingway, wealthy American marlin fishermen puff on Montecristos and salsa with teen-age prostitutes aboard million-dollar yachts.
As one of the visiting anglers confides to Renko, the last thing in the world he wants is for the United States to lift its economic embargo. "Cuba is cheap, beautiful, grateful. Take away the embargo and it'll be 'nother Florida in a year." Such vulgar dichotomies are noted by Renko, but unlike many novelistic sleuths he has never been a moralizer or a wit. He is a pure solver of crimes, vaccinated against irony, wonderment and even outrage by too long a career at the bottom of a suffocating and corrupt bureaucracy.
In fact, his earnest unsentimentality and calm tenaciousness on the hunt are what make Renko one of the most interesting detectives in modern fiction. What a clever stroke for Smith to dispatch him to Havana, where sentimentality and passion are in rare abundance.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Boris Kulikov)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HAVANA BAY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); DEATHS (78%); SUICIDE (77%); WRITERS (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); LITERATURE (63%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (53%); 

PERSON: HIAASEN, CARL; SMITH, MARTIN CRUZ FIDEL CASTRO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



169 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999

SECTION: Section 5; Page 11; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2943 words

HEADLINE: NEW ENGLAND;
A Sandy Stage For Many A Character

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JOSEPH GROSS; MICHAEL JOSEPH GROSS writes frequently about the arts.

 BODY:
IN the summer of 1915, World War I rendered Europe a risky destination for American artists who considered the expatriate experience an essential rite of passage. That summer, many artists and writers, including an obscure young playwright named Eugene O'Neill, instead sought exile in Provincetown, Mass. They were drawn to the tip of Cape Cod by Provincetown's pure northern light, the raven-haired exoticism of its Portuguese fishing population and, perhaps most importantly, cheap rent.
Artists had been a major presence in Provincetown since the 1870's, but they had not begun shaping the town's character until Charles Hawthorne opened his Cape Cod School of Art in 1899. Hawthorne, who had taught at the Art Students League of New York, attracted students from Manhattan and throughout the Northeast. They pitched their easels on the dunes outside town, where onlookers often gathered to watch the master and his students dash off quick oils and watercolors of seascapes and fishing life. 
 This summer, commemorating the opening of Hawthorne's school, Provincetown celebrates the centennial of its establishment as an arts colony. Most observances of the centennial, however, refer more directly to the exuberant Modernists, including Jackson Pollock and Mark Rothko, who began taking over the town's art scene after World War I, and flourished from the 1930's to the 1950's. But these days, the starving artists of old are a rarer part of the Provincetown community, whose economy now is kept alive by the money of summer tourists, especially gays and lesbians.
I visited Provincetown in mid-May, when the village was still shaking off its winter slumber. By Memorial Day, the summer season begins, blazing with strangeness and freedom. The streets are packed with a mix of drag queens on six-inch heels, families on day trips from Boston, spandex-clad men from New York traveling in packs, and lesbian couples pushing babies in strollers. On busy weekends, Provincetown's official population of 4,000 can swell to 50,000 or more.
Getting the most out of a Provincetown visit requires plenty of walking, mostly along the main thoroughfare, Commercial Street. Parking is scarce, so even if you drive to the Cape, you're best off leaving the car at your guest house or motel. I rented a bicycle as insurance against blisters.
First stop was lunch at Clem & Ursie's Food Ghetto, a high-end clam shack on Shank Painter Road and the best seafood bargain in town -- a steamed lobster was about $10. Then it was off to the beach.
At the end of Snail Road, just across Route 6, I locked my bicycle to a fence and followed a well-worn but unmarked trail for 45 minutes over the dunes to the outer beach, on the Atlantic Ocean. To the left of the end of the trail, unmarked, is the former site of the Peaked Hill Life Saving Station, which replaced Eugene O'Neill's first home in Provincetown after it was washed down the beach by erosion.
O'Neill is probably Provincetown's most spectacular success story. He arrived and produced his first plays here in 1916, in a theater on the wharf that used the surf and sky for its sets; nine years later, he left town the most famous playwright in America, Pulitzer Prize in hand.
After his departure in 1925, he rented his house to Edmund Wilson, who had come to the Cape to pursue his beloved Edna St. Vincent Millay, a resident of nearby Truro. When Millay spurned him, Wilson drowned his sorrows in gin-soaked house parties with such friends as E.E. Cummings and John Dos Passos before the place was destroyed by a hard winter storm in 1931.
Nothing on the dunes remains to commemorate O'Neill or his house but the setting that inspired him -- the lunar white sand, fresh wind blowing over the Atlantic, and the comforting whisper of the incoming waves -- a clean, elemental landscape that can't help but give rise to creation.
For most of the last 30 years, Provincetown theater has been pretty quiet. This summer, however, several local troupes plan to revive this aspect of Provincetown's artistic history, with productions including a new musical by Edward Gorey, a 20th-anniversary production of "Torch Song Trilogy" and a revival of "The Glass Menagerie, which Tennessee Williams wrote in Provincetown.
After sitting on the dunes awhile with "On the Road" by Jack Kerouac, another writer who spent time writing on these beaches, I bicycled back to the center of town, where I climbed the hill to the Pilgrim Monument. The 252-foot granite tower, modeled after the Torre del Mangia in Siena, was dedicated in 1910 to mark the Pilgrims' first landfall in America, which took place here on Nov. 11, 1620 -- five weeks before their more famous landing at Plymouth.
At the monument's base, the Provincetown Museum features excellent exhibits on the Pilgrims (including one about the Mayflower Compact, the first document of American democracy, which was written before the Pilgrims' debarkation), the whaling and fishing industries that thrived here in the 19th century, and the history of theater and painting in town. It's an archetype of the small-town museum, pridefully crammed with quirky exhibits like 19th-century shell mosaics that sailors sent home as valentines ("Happiness Be Thine," declares one) and a collection of stuffed birds and mammals bequeathed by a Provincetown native, Donald Baxter MacMillan, who accompanied Robert E. Peary on his first successful trip to the North Pole.
The monument itself takes about 10 minutes to climb at a moderate clip. Its 116 stairs, mostly at the beginning and the end, are not steep, and the climb is made fairly easy on the legs by 60 connecting ramps. Breathtaking views from the top of the monument show the curl of the Cape. I was there on a very clear day, and even though the museum shop proprietor said it couldn't be so, I could have sworn I saw Boston's skyscrapers rising like the Emerald City 47 miles across Massachusetts Bay.
From the monument, I coasted on my bicycle back down to Commercial Street and stopped at the Portuguese Bakery for a croissant filled with linguica, the Portuguese sausage, and cheese, and a lemon custard tart called pastel de nata. Better comfort food was never had for $3.50.
I was staying at a guest house, the effusively elegant Brass Key. Its compound of Cape bungalows surround two heated pools, set in an impeccably manicured garden. The best rooms go for about $300 a night at the height of summer but can be had for $135 during the shoulder season -- April, May, September and October. I took a nap in my gigantic dark walnut Victorian bed, in anticipation of an evening out.
Ground zero of Provincetown night life is the Atlantic House, a large, rambling nightclub that has served as a courthouse, stagecoach stop and hotel since its construction in 1798. Like most of Provincetown's other clubs (the Boatslip, the Pied and Antro are among the most popular), the Atlantic House is primarily a gay bar. But the night I went, there were a fair number of straight couples and lesbians dancing under strobe lights early in the evening, around 10. By midnight, the place was mostly shirtless men with chiseled, creatine-inflated torsos.
Since the middle of this century, Provincetown has been among the most popular gay vacation spots in America. Today, a majority of homeowners are affluent summer residents from out of state -- a situation that brings huge infusions of cash here during the high season but leaves the local economy dead in the winter. Skyrocketing real estate and lack of year-round employment opportunities now make it increasingly difficult for struggling artists to afford to live in Provincetown.
For better or worse, this summer promises to be hopping. Townsfolk are predicting record-setting tourist traffic because of a new high-speed ferry service that runs two daily round trips from Boston, making a crossing in 1 hour 55 minutes (compared to three hours on the old ferry, which makee one round-trip a day). The new ferry, run by the Bay State Cruise Company, offers on-board videos, an air-conditioned deck and serves chowder and other light fare.
But shaving that extra hour off the trip involves some sacrifice. The ferry's sterile lower deck is blighted by metallic mirrored ceiling panels and garish multicolored carpets, and its upper deck is crowded with charmless molded metal benches. By contrast, if you have the time, the older ferry's varnished hardwood benches and massive, open top deck give passengers a seafaring foretaste of the free and easy feeling they'll find when they amble down the wharf to Commercial Street.
My second day in Provincetown started with a breakfast of eggs, homemade granola and delicious blueberry muffins at Cafe Heaven, where jazzy psychedelic murals of bosomy, Botero-inspired women woke me with even more of a charge than my cup of coffee.
Thus fueled, I cycled to 627 Commercial Street in the far East End for a look at the home of Provincetown's most famous living writer, Norman Mailer. (Mary Oliver and Stanley Kunitz are also residents of the area.) Mr. Mailer's is one of the few brick homes in town, a squat, solid, motley blend of Cape, Colonial and contemporary.
I spent most of the day wandering through galleries and shops on Commercial Street, lingering longest in galleries at the Fine Arts Work Center, the Provincetown Art Association and the Schoolhouse Center for Art and Design. The Provincetown Art Association has a strong collection of art from the Hawthorne era and from the days of Hans Hoffman's Summer School of Art, which opened in 1935. Hoffman's students, including Jackson Pollock and Mark Rothko, mounted the first American exhibit of Abstract Expressionist art in Provincetown in 1949. The Art Association will stage an approximate re-creation of the 1949 exhibit this July.
At the Fine Arts Work Center, I found edgier expressions of Provincetown's current artistic renaissance. The center, managed with entrepreneurial rigor by Hunter O'Hanian, provides stipends, studios and free accommodations to 20 writers and artists each year, and shows artists' work in a funky raw space in a former lumberyard. The center also accepts applications for a series of reasonably priced summer writing and art workshops, taught this year by Michael Cunningham, Grace Paley, Michael Mazur and Paul Bowen, among others.
The Schoolhouse Center is interesting and appealing -- an old-fashioned atelier, with painting, music and theater studio space on the second floor, and two large public galleries on the first floor. The exhibit I saw was an anonymous group show of vintage snapshots -- somewhere between creative contrivance and found art.
I also asked to see some images that will be included in shows scheduled later this summer, including photographs of Provincetown by Fred W. McDarrah, the veteran photo editor of The Village Voice. The highlight of the Schoolhouse season, however, promises to be a show of prints by 76-year-old Paula Kotis whose commercial photography appeared in Vogue and Ebony in the 1950's. Most of her work -- European street scenes and portraits of Jewish Holocaust survivors -- has never been publicly shown. Her vintage silver prints have sat in boxes in her basement for the better part of 40 years.
When my eyes got tired, I stuck my head into a few of Provincetown's extraordinary shops and boutiques, though there are plenty of kitschy souvenir shops on Commercial Street. Dirty White Boy and MAP carry Provincetown's best selections of men's club wear, including both original designs and labels like Tom of Finland, Diesel and Dolce & Gabbana. Daniel Cleary's made-to-order knit sportswear in luxurious fabrics will make you feel like you stole the shirt off Cary Grant's back.
Around sunset, I had dinner at Chester, a soothing restaurant in the east end of Provincetown. In a 19th-century Greek Revival captain's house decorated with paintings by local artists (including a portrait of the eponymous Chester, the restaurant owners' Airedale terrier), I savored an appetizer of oyster stew and tender veal chop with a side of perfectly creamy wild mushroom polenta.
Down at the end of the wharf, I rested on a pile of fishing nets and looked back at the town and the Pilgrim Monument, under a sky full of stars and possibility.
 
Day and night, much to do in a small town
Information on travel, lodging and activities is available from the Provincetown Chamber of Commerce, Post Office Box 1017, 307 Commercial Street, Provincetown, Mass. 02657, (508) 467-3424. Two Web sites, www.provincetown.com and www
.provincetown.net, also offer information.
 
Transportation
The Bay State Cruise Company, (617) 748-1428, runs two ferries between Boston and Provincetown. The older, larger ferry takes three hours, leaving Boston at 9 A.M. and returning at 3:30 P.M.; $30 round trip. A new high-speed ferry takes 1 hour 55 minutes, leaving Boston at 8 A.M. and 4 P.M., and returning at 10:30 A.M. and 6:30 P.M.; $75 round trip. Bicycle passes are $5 each way.
Bicycles can be rented at Ptown Bikes, 42 Bradford Street, (508) 487-8735. Daily rentals range from $10 to $14, including locks and maps.
 
Where to Stay
In-Town Reservations, (800) 677-8696, and Provincetown Reservations System, (800) 648-0364, can arrange lodging in many guesthouses, as well as longer rentals of private homes or condominiums.
The most luxurious accommodations in town are at The Brass Key, 67 Bradford Street, (800) 842-9858, fax (508) 487-9020. It has 33 rooms for $195 to $375 in summer, including Continental breakfast and a beer-and-wine hour.
Land's End Inn, 22 Commercial Street, (800) 276-7088, is a glorious Edwardian full of antiques. It has 17 rooms, a gigantic porch, gardens and water views. Summer rates of $125 to $285 include Continental breakfast.
The Meadows Motel and Cottages,122 Bradford Street Extension, (888) 675-0880, fax (508) 487-4691, has 20 rooms, for $65 to $75 a night. It's not air-conditioned, and there are no room phones or pool, but it's close to the beach, quiet and clean.
 
Where to Eat
Chester, 404 Commercial Street, (508) 487-8200, serves a changing menu of seasonal American cuisine, featuring local seafood and lamb, and has an extensive wine list, mostly under $45. Dinner for two with wine costs about $110.
Cafe Heaven, 199 Commercial Street, (508) 487-9639, serves homemade muffins and granola for breakfast. Plain omelets cost $4.25. Open for lunch and dinner; overstuffed sandwiches cost $5.25 to $7.
Clem & Ursie's Food Ghetto, 89 Shank Painter Road, (508) 487-2333, serves inexpensive seafood (a sea clam pot pie is $6.50 and a choice of rolls generously filled with scallop, lobster or squid start at $5.99) in a relaxed atmosphere. Lunch for two costs under $20. Open daily for lunch and dinner.
The Portuguese Bakery, 299 Commercial Street, (508) 487-1803, offers over 60 kinds of pastries and light meals, and is open in summer till 11 P.M.
 
What to Do
Cape Cod National Seashore maintains more than eight miles of bicycle trails, about half of which is pretty strenuous. Maps are available at Provincelands Visitors Center, Race Point Road, Provincetown, (508) 487-1256, which also has natural- and cultural-history exhibits and issues beach fire permits.
Popular whale watch cruises are run by Dolphin Fleet, (800) 826-9300 ($19 and $16), and the Portuguese Princess, (508) 487-2651 ($16 to $20).
Pilgrim Monument and Provincetown Museum, High Pole Hill Road, is open 9 A.M. to either 5 or 7 P.M. Admission is $5, $3 ages 4 to 12.
The Atlantic House, 4-6 Masonic Place, (508) 487-3821, open nightly, is a club with three different areas. The crowd is somewhat mixed, but mostly gay men. The cover in the main club, where deejays play music, ranges from $5 to $10; the two other bars are free.
Vixen, 336 Commercial Street, (508) 487-6424, where the crowd is largely lesbian, has a bar with two pool tables and an espresso bar that is quiet enough for conversation. The back has a large dance floor, and there is live entertainment several nights a week. Cover is about $10.
The first annual Provincetown International Film Festival, June 18 to 20, features An Evening With John Waters, including the world premiere of the director's cut of his 1974 film "Female Trouble." Tickets cost $15, other screenings $5 and $8. Tickets: (800) 648-0364.
Provincetown Repertory Theater, (508) 487-5600, will offer "The Trip to Bountiful" (June 15 to July 3), "The Glass Menagerie" (July 15 to Aug. 8), "Goreyphobia" (Aug. 17 to Sept. 11), and "Barbara Cook in Concert" (Aug. 28). Tickets are $19 for the plays, $50 for the concert.
The American Theater Company's 20th-anniversary production of "Torch Song Trilogy" runs Thursday to Sunday, July 22 to Aug. 22 at 8 P.M. at Town Hall Theater. Tickets: $25 to $30, from (800) 648-0364.
The Fine Arts Work Center, 24 Pearl Street, (508) 487-9960, www
.CapeCodAccess.com/FineArts
WorkCenter, will exhibit work from the town's collection in a Centennial show July 1 to 19. Open weekdays 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Free.
Schoolhouse Center for Art and Design, 494 Commercial Street, (508) 487-4800, is open Friday to Sunday noon to 9 P.M. and Monday noon to 6 P.M., and in July and August 11 A.M. to 11 P.M. daily except Thursday.
The Provincetown Art Association and Museum, 460 Commercial Street, (508) 487-1750, is open daily noon to 5 P.M. and 8 to 10 P.M. Suggested donation is $3. A retrospective of Charles W. Hawthorne, founder of the Cape Cod School of Art, runs Aug. 20 to Oct. 31. MICHAEL JOSEPH GROSS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Provincetown will be far more crowded than this in summer. Drag queens are part of the street scene. Lois Griffel, outside the Cape Cod School of Art, which she runs. The exterior of the School House Center, an art gallery and workshop. The Provinceland Dunes on the Cape Cod National Seashore in Provincetown are popular for hiking and bicycling, and as a source of artistic inspiration. (Photographs by Rick Friedman/Black Star, for The New York Times)(pg. 11); The garden shed that was once Tennessee Williams's cottage. (Rick Friedman/Black Star, for The New York Times)(pg. 20)
 
Map of Provincetown showing landmarks and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EST AS (69%); CAPE COD SCHOOL OF ART (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAPE COD SCHOOL OF ART (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; PROVINCETOWN (MASS); UNITED STATES (94%); PORTUGAL (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS WORLD WAR I (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); CHILDREN (74%); PAINTING (73%); BEACHES (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); 

PERSON: GROSS, MICHAEL JOSEPH EUGENE O'NEILL (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



170 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5;Page 11;Column 1;Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2942 words

HEADLINE: NEW ENGLAND;
A Sandy Stage For Many A Character

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JOSEPH GROSS; MICHAEL JOSEPH GROSS writes frequently about the arts.

 BODY:
IN the summer of 1915, World War I rendered Europe a risky destination for American artists who considered the expatriate experience an essential rite of passage. That summer, many artists and writers, including an obscure young playwright named Eugene O'Neill, instead sought exile in Provincetown, Mass. They were drawn to the tip of Cape Cod by Provincetown's pure northern light, the raven-haired exoticism of its Portuguese fishing population and, perhaps most importantly, cheap rent.
Artists had been a major presence in Provincetown since the 1870's, but they had not begun shaping the town's character until Charles Hawthorne opened his Cape Cod School of Art in 1899. Hawthorne, who had taught at the Art Students League of New York, attracted students from Manhattan and throughout the Northeast. They pitched their easels on the dunes outside town, where onlookers often gathered to watch the master and his students dash off quick oils and watercolors of seascapes and fishing life. 
 This summer, commemorating the opening of Hawthorne's school, Provincetown celebrates the centennial of its establishment as an arts colony. Most observances of the centennial, however, refer more directly to the exuberant Modernists, including Jackson Pollock and Mark Rothko, who began taking over the town's art scene after World War I, and flourished from the 1930's to the 1950's. But these days, the starving artists of old are a rarer part of the Provincetown community, whose economy now is kept alive by the money of summer tourists, especially gays and lesbians.
I visited Provincetown in mid-May, when the village was still shaking off its winter slumber. By Memorial Day, the summer season begins, blazing with strangeness and freedom. The streets are packed with a mix of drag queens on six-inch heels, families on day trips from Boston, spandex-clad men from New York traveling in packs, and lesbian couples pushing babies in strollers. On busy weekends, Provincetown's official population of 4,000 can swell to 50,000 or more.
Getting the most out of a Provincetown visit requires plenty of walking, mostly along the main thoroughfare, Commercial Street. Parking is scarce, so even if you drive to the Cape, you're best off leaving the car at your guest house or motel. I rented a bicycle as insurance against blisters.
First stop was lunch at Clem & Ursie's Food Ghetto, a high-end clam shack on Shank Painter Road and the best seafood bargain in town -- a steamed lobster was about $10. Then it was off to the beach.
At the end of Snail Road, just across Route 6, I locked my bicycle to a fence and followed a well-worn but unmarked trail for 45 minutes over the dunes to the outer beach, on the Atlantic Ocean. To the left of the end of the trail, unmarked, is the former site of the Peaked Hill Life Saving Station, which replaced Eugene O'Neill's first home in Provincetown after it was washed down the beach by erosion.
O'Neill is probably Provincetown's most spectacular success story. He arrived and produced his first plays here in 1916, in a theater on the wharf that used the surf and sky for its sets; nine years later, he left town the most famous playwright in America, Pulitzer Prize in hand.
After his departure in 1925, he rented his house to Edmund Wilson, who had come to the Cape to pursue his beloved Edna St. Vincent Millay, a resident of nearby Truro. When Millay spurned him, Wilson drowned his sorrows in gin-soaked house parties with such friends as E.E. Cummings and John Dos Passos before the place was destroyed by a hard winter storm in 1931.
Nothing on the dunes remains to commemorate O'Neill or his house but the setting that inspired him -- the lunar white sand, fresh wind blowing over the Atlantic, and the comforting whisper of the incoming waves -- a clean, elemental landscape that can't help but give rise to creation.
For most of the last 30 years, Provincetown theater has been pretty quiet. This summer, however, several local troupes plan to revive this aspect of Provincetown's artistic history, with productions including a new musical by Edward Gorey, a 20th-anniversary production of "Torch Song Trilogy" and a revival of "The Glass Menagerie, which Tennessee Williams wrote in Provincetown.
After sitting on the dunes awhile with "On the Road" by Jack Kerouac, another writer who spent time writing on these beaches, I bicycled back to the center of town, where I climbed the hill to the Pilgrim Monument. The 252-foot granite tower, modeled after the Torre del Mangia in Siena, was dedicated in 1910 to mark the Pilgrims' first landfall in America, which took place here on Nov. 11, 1620 -- five weeks before their more famous landing at Plymouth.
At the monument's base, the Provincetown Museum features excellent exhibits on the Pilgrims (including one about the Mayflower Compact, the first document of American democracy, which was written before the Pilgrims' debarkation), the whaling and fishing industries that thrived here in the 19th century, and the history of theater and painting in town. It's an archetype of the small-town museum, pridefully crammed with quirky exhibits like 19th-century shell mosaics that sailors sent home as valentines ("Happiness Be Thine," declares one) and a collection of stuffed birds and mammals bequeathed by a Provincetown native, Donald Baxter MacMillan, who accompanied Robert E. Peary on his first successful trip to the North Pole.
The monument itself takes about 10 minutes to climb at a moderate clip. Its 116 stairs, mostly at the beginning and the end, are not steep, and the climb is made fairly easy on the legs by 60 connecting ramps. Breathtaking views from the top of the monument show the curl of the Cape. I was there on a very clear day, and even though the museum shop proprietor said it couldn't be so, I could have sworn I saw Boston's skyscrapers rising like the Emerald City 47 miles across Massachusetts Bay.
From the monument, I coasted on my bicycle back down to Commercial Street and stopped at the Portuguese Bakery for a croissant filled with linguica, the Portuguese sausage, and cheese, and a lemon custard tart called pastel de nata. Better comfort food was never had for $3.50.
I was staying at a guest house, the effusively elegant Brass Key. Its compound of Cape bungalows surround two heated pools, set in an impeccably manicured garden. The best rooms go for about $300 a night at the height of summer but can be had for $135 during the shoulder season -- April, May, September and October. I took a nap in my gigantic dark walnut Victorian bed, in anticipation of an evening out.
Ground zero of Provincetown night life is the Atlantic House, a large, rambling nightclub that has served as a courthouse, stagecoach stop and hotel since its construction in 1798. Like most of Provincetown's other clubs (the Boatslip, the Pied and Antro are among the most popular), the Atlantic House is primarily a gay bar. But the night I went, there were a fair number of straight couples and lesbians dancing under strobe lights early in the evening, around 10. By midnight, the place was mostly shirtless men with chiseled, creatine-inflated torsos.
Since the middle of this century, Provincetown has been among the most popular gay vacation spots in America. Today, a majority of homeowners are affluent summer residents from out of state -- a situation that brings huge infusions of cash here during the high season but leaves the local economy dead in the winter. Skyrocketing real estate and lack of year-round employment opportunities now make it increasingly difficult for struggling artists to afford to live in Provincetown.
For better or worse, this summer promises to be hopping. Townsfolk are predicting record-setting tourist traffic because of a new high-speed ferry service that runs two daily round trips from Boston, making a crossing in 1 hour 55 minutes (compared to three hours on the old ferry, which makee one round-trip a day). The new ferry, run by the Bay State Cruise Company, offers on-board videos, an air-conditioned deck and serves chowder and other light fare.
But shaving that extra hour off the trip involves some sacrifice. The ferry's sterile lower deck is blighted by metallic mirrored ceiling panels and garish multicolored carpets, and its upper deck is crowded with charmless molded metal benches. By contrast, if you have the time, the older ferry's varnished hardwood benches and massive, open top deck give passengers a seafaring foretaste of the free and easy feeling they'll find when they amble down the wharf to Commercial Street.
My second day in Provincetown started with a breakfast of eggs, homemade granola and delicious blueberry muffins at Cafe Heaven, where jazzy psychedelic murals of bosomy, Botero-inspired women woke me with even more of a charge than my cup of coffee.
Thus fueled, I cycled to 627 Commercial Street in the far East End for a look at the home of Provincetown's most famous living writer, Norman Mailer. (Mary Oliver and Stanley Kunitz are also residents of the area.) Mr. Mailer's is one of the few brick homes in town, a squat, solid, motley blend of Cape, Colonial and contemporary.
I spent most of the day wandering through galleries and shops on Commercial Street, lingering longest in galleries at the Fine Arts Work Center, the Provincetown Art Association and the Schoolhouse Center for Art and Design. The Provincetown Art Association has a strong collection of art from the Hawthorne era and from the days of Hans Hoffman's Summer School of Art, which opened in 1935. Hoffman's students, including Jackson Pollock and Mark Rothko, mounted the first American exhibit of Abstract Expressionist art in Provincetown in 1949. The Art Association will stage an approximate re-creation of the 1949 exhibit this July.
At the Fine Arts Work Center, I found edgier expressions of Provincetown's current artistic renaissance. The center, managed with entrepreneurial rigor by Hunter O'Hanian, provides stipends, studios and free accommodations to 20 writers and artists each year, and shows artists' work in a funky raw space in a former lumberyard. The center also accepts applications for a series of reasonably priced summer writing and art workshops, taught this year by Michael Cunningham, Grace Paley, Michael Mazur and Paul Bowen, among others.
The Schoolhouse Center is interesting and appealing -- an old-fashioned atelier, with painting, music and theater studio space on the second floor, and two large public galleries on the first floor. The exhibit I saw was an anonymous group show of vintage snapshots -- somewhere between creative contrivance and found art.
I also asked to see some images that will be included in shows scheduled later this summer, including photographs of Provincetown by Fred W. McDarrah, the veteran photo editor of The Village Voice. The highlight of the Schoolhouse season, however, promises to be a show of prints by 76-year-old Paula Kotis whose commercial photography appeared in Vogue and Ebony in the 1950's. Most of her work -- European street scenes and portraits of Jewish Holocaust survivors -- has never been publicly shown. Her vintage silver prints have sat in boxes in her basement for the better part of 40 years.
When my eyes got tired, I stuck my head into a few of Provincetown's extraordinary shops and boutiques, though there are plenty of kitschy souvenir shops on Commercial Street. Dirty White Boy and MAP carry Provincetown's best selections of men's club wear, including both original designs and labels like Tom of Finland, Diesel and Dolce & Gabbana. Daniel Cleary's made-to-order knit sportswear in luxurious fabrics will make you feel like you stole the shirt off Cary Grant's back.
Around sunset, I had dinner at Chester, a soothing restaurant in the east end of Provincetown. In a 19th-century Greek Revival captain's house decorated with paintings by local artists (including a portrait of the eponymous Chester, the restaurant owners' Airedale terrier), I savored an appetizer of oyster stew and tender veal chop with a side of perfectly creamy wild mushroom polenta.
Down at the end of the wharf, I rested on a pile of fishing nets and looked back at the town and the Pilgrim Monument, under a sky full of stars and possibility.
 
Day and night, much to do in a small town
Information on travel, lodging and activities is available from the Provincetown Chamber of Commerce, Post Office Box 1017, 307 Commercial Street, Provincetown, Mass. 02657, (508) 467-3424. Two Web sites, www.provincetown.com and www
.provincetown.net, also offer information.
 
Transportation
The Bay State Cruise Company, (617) 748-1428, runs two ferries between Boston and Provincetown. The older, larger ferry takes three hours, leaving Boston at 9 A.M. and returning at 3:30 P.M.; $30 round trip. A new high-speed ferry takes 1 hour 55 minutes, leaving Boston at 8 A.M. and 4 P.M., and returning at 10:30 A.M. and 6:30 P.M.; $75 round trip. Bicycle passes are $5 each way.
Bicycles can be rented at Ptown Bikes, 42 Bradford Street, (508) 487-8735. Daily rentals range from $10 to $14, including locks and maps.
 
Where to Stay
In-Town Reservations, (800) 677-8696, and Provincetown Reservations System, (800) 648-0364, can arrange lodging in many guesthouses, as well as longer rentals of private homes or condominiums.
The most luxurious accommodations in town are at The Brass Key, 67 Bradford Street, (800) 842-9858, fax (508) 487-9020. It has 33 rooms for $195 to $375 in summer, including Continental breakfast and a beer-and-wine hour.
Land's End Inn, 22 Commercial Street, (800) 276-7088, is a glorious Edwardian full of antiques. It has 17 rooms, a gigantic porch, gardens and water views. Summer rates of $125 to $285 include Continental breakfast.
The Meadows Motel and Cottages,122 Bradford Street Extension, (888) 675-0880, fax (508) 487-4691, has 20 rooms, for $65 to $75 a night. It's not air-conditioned, and there are no room phones or pool, but it's close to the beach, quiet and clean.
 
Where to Eat
Chester, 404 Commercial Street, (508) 487-8200, serves a changing menu of seasonal American cuisine, featuring local seafood and lamb, and has an extensive wine list, mostly under $45. Dinner for two with wine costs about $110.
Cafe Heaven, 199 Commercial Street, (508) 487-9639, serves homemade muffins and granola for breakfast. Plain omelets cost $4.25. Open for lunch and dinner; overstuffed sandwiches cost $5.25 to $7.
Clem & Ursie's Food Ghetto, 89 Shank Painter Road, (508) 487-2333, serves inexpensive seafood (a sea clam pot pie is $6.50 and a choice of rolls generously filled with scallop, lobster or squid start at $5.99) in a relaxed atmosphere. Lunch for two costs under $20. Open daily for lunch and dinner.
The Portuguese Bakery, 299 Commercial Street, (508) 487-1803, offers over 60 kinds of pastries and light meals, and is open in summer till 11 P.M.
 
What to Do
Cape Cod National Seashore maintains more than eight miles of bicycle trails, about half of which is pretty strenuous. Maps are available at Provincelands Visitors Center, Race Point Road, Provincetown, (508) 487-1256, which also has natural- and cultural-history exhibits and issues beach fire permits.
Popular whale watch cruises are run by Dolphin Fleet, (800) 826-9300 ($19 and $16), and the Portuguese Princess, (508) 487-2651 ($16 to $20).
Pilgrim Monument and Provincetown Museum, High Pole Hill Road, is open 9 A.M. to either 5 or 7 P.M. Admission is $5, $3 ages 4 to 12.
The Atlantic House, 4-6 Masonic Place, (508) 487-3821, open nightly, is a club with three different areas. The crowd is somewhat mixed, but mostly gay men. The cover in the main club, where deejays play music, ranges from $5 to $10; the two other bars are free.
Vixen, 336 Commercial Street, (508) 487-6424, where the crowd is largely lesbian, has a bar with two pool tables and an espresso bar that is quiet enough for conversation. The back has a large dance floor, and there is live entertainment several nights a week. Cover is about $10.
The first annual Provincetown International Film Festival, June 18 to 20, features An Evening With John Waters, including the world premiere of the director's cut of his 1974 film "Female Trouble." Tickets cost $15, other screenings $5 and $8. Tickets: (800) 648-0364.
Provincetown Repertory Theater, (508) 487-5600, will offer "The Trip to Bountiful" (June 15 to July 3), "The Glass Menagerie" (July 15 to Aug. 8), "Goreyphobia" (Aug. 17 to Sept. 11), and "Barbara Cook in Concert" (Aug. 28). Tickets are $19 for the plays, $50 for the concert.
The American Theater Company's 20th-anniversary production of "Torch Song Trilogy" runs Thursday to Sunday, July 22 to Aug. 22 at 8 P.M. at Town Hall Theater. Tickets: $25 to $30, from (800) 648-0364.
The Fine Arts Work Center, 24 Pearl Street, (508) 487-9960, www
.CapeCodAccess.com/FineArts
WorkCenter, will exhibit work from the town's collection in a Centennial show July 1 to 19. Open weekdays 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Free.
Schoolhouse Center for Art and Design, 494 Commercial Street, (508) 487-4800, is open Friday to Sunday noon to 9 P.M. and Monday noon to 6 P.M., and in July and August 11 A.M. to 11 P.M. daily except Thursday.
The Provincetown Art Association and Museum, 460 Commercial Street, (508) 487-1750, is open daily noon to 5 P.M. and 8 to 10 P.M. Suggested donation is $3. A retrospective of Charles W. Hawthorne, founder of the Cape Cod School of Art, runs Aug. 20 to Oct. 31. MICHAEL JOSEPH GROSS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 27, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 6 about artists in Provincetown, Mass., misspelled the name of an art teacher who had a school there. He was Hans Hofmann, not Hoffman. The article also misstated the years in which Jackson Pollock and Mark Rothko visited and referred incorrectly to their role in an exhibition organized by Mr. Hofmann's students. Pollock and Rothko visited Provincetown frequently in the 1940's, not in the 1930's. Although they had several works in the first Abstract Expressionists' exhibition in Provincetown in 1949, they did not help organize it and did not study under Mr. Hofmann.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Provincetown will be far more crowded than this in summer. Drag queens are part of the street scene. Lois Griffel, outside the Cape Cod School of Art, which she runs. The exterior of the School House Center, an art gallery and workshop. The Provinceland Dunes on the Cape Cod National Seashore in Provincetown are popular for hiking and bicycling, and as a source of artistic inspiration. (Photographs by Rick Friedman/Black Star, for The New York Times)(pg. 11); The garden shed that was once Tennessee Williams's cottage. (Rick Friedman/Black Star, for The New York Times)(pg. 20)
 
Map of Provincetown showing landmarks and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EST AS (69%); CAPE COD SCHOOL OF ART (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAPE COD SCHOOL OF ART (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. WORLD WAR I (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); CHILDREN (74%); PAINTING (73%); BEACHES (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); 

PERSON: EUGENE O'NEILL (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1999



171 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Media Talk;
Dow Jones JournalistsProtest Pension Cuts

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
Six weeks ago, a large group of journalists at Dow Jones & Company decided to assemble in an unusual venue -- the company's annual meeting -- to express their dismay over proposed cutbacks in their pension benefits. Last week, another group of Dow Jones journalists decided not to assemble in a usual venue -- the CNBC studios -- to make the same point.
The quasi-boycott began when Robert Langreth, a Wall Street Journal science reporter and a member of the board of Local 1096 of the Independent Association of Publishing Employees, was instructed to keep his union button -- reading "I <heart> My Retirement Benefits" -- out of sight before CNBC's cameras started filming him on May 24. . 
 Soon, a button boycott broke out. Reporter after reporter decided that there were better things to do than appear buttonless on CNBC. After all, when Dow Jones contracted to provide material to CNBC, the company assured reporters that their appearances would be voluntary.
In the last 10 days, the number of volunteers plummeted. According to the accounts of five Journal reporters, Charles Gasparino and Rebecca Buckman rebuffed a CNBC liaison seeking to have them discuss their page-one article about Merrill Lynch's decision to offer on-line stock trading. Their editor, Larry Ingrassia, appeared instead.
On Thursday, William Pesek, an economics correspondent at Barron's, which is owned by Dow Jones, declined to go on CNBC to talk about Alice M. Rivlin's resignation from the Federal Reserve Board.
"It came out of nowhere," said a reporter participating in the boycott, who insisted that he not be identified. "It does reflect the anger and concern of a lot of people at the paper."
Richard J. Tofel, vice president of corporate communications for Dow Jones, said the reporters' action had little impact on the Dow Jones contributions to CNBC. He noted that the Washington bureau chief, Alan Murray, had been on the air, as had the technology columnist, Walter Mossberg, and several reporters.
"There is not a single story for which we have failed to produce somebody knowledgeable," Mr. Tofel said, "so the viewers have not missed anything."
Except a chance to see some union buttons. FELICITY BARRINGER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The button that sparked a boycott. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO (DJ) DOW JONES & CO INC (95%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOW JONES & CO (DJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (75%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); BOARD CHANGES (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: RICHARD J TOFEL (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1999



172 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: I'm Wall Street's Worst Nightmare

BYLINE: By Mark Katz; Ian Gilmour is a former Defense Secretary and Deputy Foreign Secretary of Britain.

 BODY:
I may be the only person who has ever invested in Dell Computer and lost money. Three weeks ago I purchased my very first stock, buying $3,000 worth of Dell that's worth $2,300 today. As of now, a darling stock of the delirious market has me $700 in the hole.
Admittedly, I've arrived late to personal investing. I'm one of those people who live their lives at the dusk of the day. As a teen-ager, I began watching "Charlie's Angels" when it featured Tanya Roberts. In the 80's, I was the last guy I knew wearing stubble and pastels. By the time I staked my claim on the Internet, AOL had run out of screen names that began with the letter M. And just a short time ago, news of the surging stock market was brought to my attention. 
 It happened one day at lunch, when my friend Paul quietly revealed to me that, three years after investing his pension by himself, he had made a million dollars on America Online. A million! Even in the era of $4 cappuccinos (a deliciously frothy coffee drink I've recently discovered), that's a lot of money, not to mention a pretty good return for a dentist investing from home on a Wednesday afternoon.
I like Paul, but I was devastated by his good fortune. Before that day I had been vaguely aware that the market was strong. I read the papers every day. I knew that the Dow had passed 10,000 in the same way I understood that our trade deficit is large and the speed of light is fast. Those numbers had none of the relevance of Paul's 1,000,000. In those zeros I saw the incredulous eyes of my progeny, demanding to know how I had managed to sleepwalk through the greatest market we've ever known.
That lunch set in motion a process that began with a 10-day self-taught crash course in picking stocks and ended the morning the price for Dell Computer, a company regarded as the General Motors of the new economy, fell below $40 a share. Gazing into the monitor of my desktop computer, I bought a piece of the action.
That was the day the "greater fool" theory found its greatest fool yet. My selection of that particular stock at that particular price was the product of blind faith, trivia and superstition: faith in the infinite expansion of a transcendent economy, trivial knowledge that Michael Dell is, like me, a thirtysomething son of an orthodontist and a superstitious notion that if this company had brought billions to my parallel-life soul mate, I too could expect a healthy return. There was no more science to this transaction than the time I put $50 down on 23 black in honor of my favorite Yankee.
Three weeks later, I could have bought a Dell computer with the money I'd lost, just as I would have been better off buying box seats behind first base with my $50.
I believe I've demonstrated the specific ways in which I'm a dangerously stupid investor, but correct me if I am wrong about this: for the stock market to rise, it requires demand to outpace supply. To sustain its incredible performance, the market requires more investments each day. An eager new recruit who will gladly buy your Yahoo stock at the precise moment it might otherwise succumb to the gravity of logic -- with another dupe just like him only a mouse click behind. I've already disposed of my disposable income, but where will the many other rubes come from? I only have two brothers and a sister.
For those who scrutinize leading market indicators, my bid to ride the bull market cannot be good news. If my past is prologue, we've just arrived at the end of a trend. Which means this boom may end with nearly everyone a millionaire and me left holding the bag. Or maybe we can prolong the prosperity by bringing to the market the last few people more clueless than I am.
Seek them out at outlet malls. Comb the beaches for those who don't wear sunscreen. We can target those whose only response to one of America's lowest moments was, "Where can I buy that lip liner?"
Remember what's at stake: the 14-year-old who smoked his first cigarette today could be the one chasing up the price of your biotech stock tomorrow. I say we get out there and help Charles Schwab recruit fresh troops of self-taught investors with more cash than brains. It might just be our last, best hope of getting Dell Computer back up to 39 3/8. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); BONDS (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); 

PERSON: KATZ, MARK MICHAEL DELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1999



173 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: CRISIS IN THE BALKANS: NEWS ANALYSIS;
For Albright's Mission, More Problems and Risk

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6

 BODY:
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright flew to Europe tonight for what she hoped would be something of a victory lap. In fact, it is a risky mission, and could be rather muted.
The Kosovo peace pact is not yet a done deal, with a breakdown in the talks and several issues outstanding that Ms. Albright will confront during the next few days as she meets her fellow foreign ministers, confers with Kosovo Albanian leaders and perhaps visits several countries affected by the misery of the war. 
 As Ms. Albright left Washington tonight, the European allies and Washington were still divided over the necessity of winning a United Nations Security Council resolution that would give a mantle of authority to the NATO security force and the civil administration planned for Kosovo.
And it was unclear how the Kosovar Albanian leaders, in particular the rebel Kosovo Liberation Army, whose representatives Ms. Albright plans to meet in Germany, would accept the sketchy document that is the basis of the pact with President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia.
Here in Washington, beneath the buoyancy that the end of the war appeared in sight, questions lingered about whether the original goals of the air campaign had been achieved.
Some, both inside and outside the Administration, recalled the objectives set out by President Clinton in his televised Oval Office speech on March 24, the first night of the bombing.
Mr. Clinton said then that the mission was to show the "seriousness of NATO's purpose," to "deter an even bloodier offensive against innocent civilians in Kosovo," to "seriously damage the Serbian military's capacity to harm the people of Kosovo." He also said the air campaign was intended to keep stability in the fragile neighboring countries of Macedonia and Albania.
In the end, Mr. Clinton's first goal of demonstrating the seriousness of NATO's purpose was achieved: Under great strain and differences of opinion, the alliance stayed together.
But in essence, asserted Ivo Daalder, a former member of the Clinton Administration's National Security Council, NATO unity was achieved at the expense of the other objectives.
"The costs were extraordinarily high to do this," Mr. Daalder said.
In the first several weeks of the air campaign, Mr. Milosevic's forces expelled hundreds of thousands of Albanians over the border of Kosovo.
In the end, more than 850,00 Kosovar Albanians, the population NATO had wanted to protect, were squatting in tents or crammed into the homes of relatives, friends and strangers in Macedonia and Albania, with many of their identity papers destroyed, their homes in tatters.
Hundreds of thousands of others were left wandering around homeless inside Kosovo.
Mr. Clinton's goal of maintaining stability in the region also went by the boards, Mr. Daalder said.
The delicate ethnic situation in Macedonia between Macedonians and Kosovar Albanians was thrown out of balance by the huge influx of Albanian refugees. The weak economy has been thrown into disarray by the cutoff of trade with Yugoslavia and by the costly burden of maintaining the refugees.
In Albania, a weak political equilibrium was unsettled by the new refugees and the growing numbers of Kosovo Liberation Army guerrillas training in the north of the country.
To try to reverse those outcomes, the United States and European nations will be entrenched in Kosovo maintaining the peace for years, Administration officials and their critics said. The financial costs could extend for a generation, Mr. Daalder predicted.
The goal of maintaining NATO credibility was achieved. The alliance followed through on the threats to bomb, got Mr. Milosevic to accept a deal on its terms and has not yet stopped bombing in the absence of final agreement.
But that goal was not entirely cost-free, either.
As news of the deal with Mr. Milosevic sank in at NATO headquarters, a senior NATO official said the alliance had hung together by stumbling along, rather than by smart decision-making.
It is doubtful whether NATO will ever venture into another Kosovo-style campaign, he said. After 50 years of drawing up white papers, analyzing and preparing, NATO's first war may well be its last.
"This showed the incredible difficulty of a humanitarian-military action by an alliance," the official said, speaking on condition that his name not be used. "I personally believe this is never to be repeated. NATO got in way over its head, stumbled through, didn't know how to get out, was scared to death by what was happening."
Referring to the internecine battles of the last 10 weeks, the official said: "This has left a bitter taste, of tilting within governments, between governments, between NATO headquarters at Brussels and the military headquarters at Mons. This has been a searing experience."
Some of those questions will come up as Ms. Albright visits Germany and the devastated countries that adjoin Kosovo.
Her first order of business is a meeting of the foreign ministers of the seven richest industrial countries and Russia, in Cologne, Germany.
Reports from Moscow suggested that the Russian Foreign Minister, Igor S. Ivanov, might not come until the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia stopped. The approval of Russia, as well as China, is needed for passage of a Security Council resolution.
Administration officials said they were not counting on the Russians and the Chinese to agree quickly to a resolution. Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, the Russian envoy who helped win Mr. Milosevic's acquiescence to the pact, came under heavy criticism when he arrived back in Moscow.
The Chinese Government, embittered by the mistaken bombing of their Embassy in Belgrade, was unlikely to veto a resolution. But officials said China would probably delay its approval to seek concessions from the United States on other fronts in exchange for not vetoing.
Overall, Washington puts much less stock in a United Nations blessing than the Europeans do. First, the State Department argues that it would be dangerous to leave a vacuum in Kosovo as Yugoslav forces withdraw by waiting for a Security Council resolution.
Second, the officials assert that planning for interim administration and the future political landscape of Kosovo can go ahead without a resolution. But the document Mr. Milosevic agreed to stipulates that the "interim administration" for Kosovo will be established within "substantial autonomy" of Yugoslavia "to be decided by the Security Council."
Unlike the detailed 44-page accord reached in Rambouillet, France, that Mr. Milosevic rejected in March, provoking the NATO bombing, the document he agreed to on Thursday leaves the future of Kosovo vague.
While Kosovar Albanian representatives eventually signed the Rambouillet pact after extracting a promise of a referendum on Kosovo's status in three years, the present document does not make clear whether Kosovo remains part of Yugoslavia, or eventually will have the chance of becoming independent, as the Albanians want.
Concerns have been raised that with protracted negotations between the United States, the Europeans and the Russians, those political questions will be held hostage by the Russians.
Almost certainly, the Russians will try to circumscribe Kosovo's autonomy and will try to limit the chances for eventual independence, a move that promises to antagonize the Kosovar Albanians, on whose behalf the war was largely fought. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: ALBANIA (98%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (56%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (56%); KOSOVO LIBERATION ARMY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); ALBANIA (98%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); REFUGEES (71%); BOMBINGS (70%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1999



174 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3519 words

HEADLINE: DAMAGE CONTROL: A special report;
Some Plaintiffs Losing Out In Texas' War on Lawsuits

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON 

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
A father in a small Texas town won a verdict of $250,000 against a hospital after his daughter was decapitated by an inadequately medicated former psychiatric patient. But in 1996 the Texas Supreme Court overturned the decision and the hospital paid nothing.
In a Houston case, a judge agreed last fall with lawyers for a 9-year-old girl that lax security made it easy for her to be raped by three teen-agers in a vacant apartment. It was the kind of ruling that used to bring multimillion-dollar awards. But the company that managed the property did not have to pay anything. 
 In San Antonio, a jury set damages at $42.5 million after finding that an oil company's indifference to safety had caused the death of a worker in an explosion. But in March, the judge reduced the amount to $200,000.
Over the last decade, sweeping changes have transformed the legal system here in Texas and in many other states. Under the banner of lawsuit reform, Texas has helped lead the way, embracing one of the nation's most ambitious attempts to hold down the cost of civil suits and limit the size of jury awards.
For years, Texas had a reputation as the "lawsuit capital of America" because its juries in injury cases were said to be overly generous. For example, in mid-80's, after a prize bull died as a reaction to insecticide, a rancher won a jury verdict of $8.5 million.
But starting in the late 1980's, the state began adding restrictions, like limits on punitive damage awards, and provisions that make it harder for injured workers to sue. It also enacted a measure that critics say was originally drafted by the tobacco industry aimed at barring suits by smokers against cigarette companies.
Now Texas is seen as one of the most aggressive states in efforts to curb civil suits under the banner of "tort reform." More than 30 states, including Alabama in early June, have passed laws since 1995 aimed at reining in what critics call rampant lawsuit abuse.
Given its former reputation, Texas's experiment with civil justice changes would draw notice under any circumstances. But because Gov. George W. Bush is closely associated with the movement, his record on civil justice in Texas is likely to be an issue if he runs for President.
"The most important thing you and I can do to improve our economy and create jobs in Texas is to reform our civil justice system," Mr. Bush said in his first State of the State message in 1995.
Mr. Bush was not the architect of the movement to change the law, and the legal system here had already begun to make sharp changes before he took office. But he seized on lawsuit abuse as a potent political issue, and he has benefited from its ability to attract campaign contributions from businesses.
Curbing lawsuit abuse was one of just four issues Mr. Bush emphasized in his campaign for governor in 1994. And he delivered. Leaders of the movement here to change tort law, which deals with injury cases, say Governor Bush helped bring their most impressive successes.
"On a scale of 1 to 10, he's a 10. There isn't any question about it: he helped tremendously," said Ralph Wayne, president of the Texas Civil Justice League, one of the leading business groups in Austin lobbying for limits on lawsuits.
For one, Mr. Bush championed a package of bills that swept the Texas Legislature in 1995, including the measure that imposed a new formula capping punitive damages, and provisions that stopped plaintiffs' lawyers from selecting sympathetic courts in which to file their suits.
Other bills passed that year with the Governor's support included provisions that made it more difficult for people to sue professionals like engineers and real estate agents, and a new law that made it harder for people to recover damages when their injuries were caused by more than one wrongdoer.
Proponents say the changes are reintroducing fairness in a legal system gone haywire. But critics in Texas and across the country say the "reform" label is being used to force the most extensive cutback in the legal protections for citizens in this century.
The debate over the direction of the legal system has divided voters, legislators, lawyers and even judges. The Texas Supreme Court, an elected body that was once controlled by Democrats, is now entirely Republican. The court itself, its critics say, has been reshaped by the movement to limit lawsuits; many of its members have received political contributions from groups urging those limits.
Even before Mr. Bush's election, the court had been propelling civil justice changes in scores of opinions that overturned jury verdicts and cut back on legal rules that favored plaintiffs. The court, which decided about 70 percent of its cases in favor of plaintiffs in the mid-1980's, now rules against them three-quarters of the time, according to a study by a watchdog group.
The Supreme Court's role in the movement to limit lawsuits has provoked bitter criticism even inside the judiciary. Phil Hardberger, a Democrat who is chief justice of Texas's District Court of Appeals in San Antonio, said the changing attitudes in the legal system here are veiled efforts to undermine the jury system as a democratic institution.
"The bottom line," Justice Hardberger said in an interview, "is jury verdicts are meaning less and less. There is an inherent distrust of the people." The reason, he said, is that jurors are often sympathetic to plaintiffs.
The Supreme Court's chief justice, Thomas R. Phillips, once a lawyer at a firm that represented major corporations, said in an interview that his court is part of a broad conservative trend in American civil law. His court's opinions, he said, showed a "realization across America of the limits of the tort system."
But both sides here agree that, 10 years after the movement to change civil law began, the legal culture in Texas is profoundly changed.
There are fewer personal injury lawsuits, down by about 10,000 annually statewide from a high of 65,000 in 1995. The Bush administration said that consumers have saved more than $2.2 billion in insurance premiums because the 1995 legal changes have meant insurance companies have been paying out less to people claiming injuries. But consumer advocates say the result is windfall profits for insurance companies.
In fact, the Southwest Insurance Information Service, an industry group, said a typical Texas driver's automobile liability premium rose to $789 in 1997, up from $727 in 1994. The group said that the full effect of the changes has yet to be felt.
The Texas Department of Insurance said there were many reasons that insurance profits were high, including the fact that cars were safer and there has been less drunken driving. Tort "reform" was not the only reason that they were paying less to claimants, the department said.
A department spokesman said the profit rate for automotive insurers in the state in 1996 was 19 percent return on net worth. In contrast, the rate the department suggests is appropriate is about 12 percent and the national rate is 13 percent.
Pervasive changes in attitudes by lawyers and jurors have meant that the dollar amounts of lawsuit settlements are sharply lower across the state, lawyers on both sides of the issue said. Some studies suggest that plaintiffs' lawyers earn less on average than they did before the movement to change the laws began.
In Austin, it is now accepted political wisdom that the once-powerful trial lawyers no longer have the influence they had wielded here for decades. "They have won," acknowledged Hartley Hampton, the president of the Texas Trial Lawyers Association. "We're just trying to keep them from bayoneting the dead."
The tort "reform" movement has supplied the first potent challenge nationally to the trial lawyers' political power. Heavily supported by business, the campaign has pressed for changes in the law in virtually every state legislature in recent years. This year there have been proposals in Florida, Pennsylvania, New York and other states.
Battles over the measures are playing out in scores of state courts across the country, including Illinois and Ohio, where some judges have ruled that newly enacted changes violate fundamental rights of citizens to have access to the courts.
Here, as in many states, proponents of changes in the law, including many in the business community, say the courts had bent too far toward plaintiffs. "The more you learn, the more ludicrous the whole system becomes," said Richard W. Weekley, a leader of one of the state's best-financed groups, Texans for Lawsuit Reform. Mr. Weekley's family owns a major Houston house-building company that, like most businesses, has faced liability suits.
But some of the people affected by the changing legal rules and attitudes here say the Texas legal system has grown harsh because of the changes.
In the small central Texas town of Kerrville, James O. Clark, a retired Government ammunition inspector, said he was shocked when the Texas Supreme Court overturned a jury verdict and said the hospital did not have to do anything to compensate for his daughter's murder.
Mr. Clark's son-in-law, a violently psychotic man, had threatened his daughter and set fire to her car. But he was released by the state hospital without being given an intravenous shot of anti-psychotic medication. Seven days later, he dismembered her.
The hospital declined to comment. But the message from the courts in his case, Mr. Clark said, was that psychiatric hospitals would not be held to account for carelessness. "If they can get by with that," he said, "they can get by with anything. If that can happen, what good is your court system?"
 
The Politics
Civil Law Minutiae Become an Issue
The battle over once obscure portions of the civil law has become a permanent part of the political system here. It is a battle of big money and bruising fights. Hundreds of thousands of dollars have flowed from self-styled reformers mostly into Republican campaigns, including Mr. Bush's. Proponents of the legal changes say they are merely trying to counter the large political contributions that have been given mostly to Democrats for years by the state's trial lawyers.
Texans for Lawsuit Reform is now one of the largest political action committees in the state. It and its leading members contributed more than $1 million to candidates in state races in each of the last two elections and succeeded in making civil justice changes a decisive issue in some legislative races.
In political races, trial lawyers have been demonized across the state, sometimes literally: in a State Senate campaign in the Rio Grande Valley, one candidate won after he had a photograph distributed of his opponent, a trial lawyer, doctored to show devilish features.
And the battle has included extensive public relations campaigns across Texas by local groups called Citizens Against Lawsuit Abuse, financed by small businesses and concerned individuals.
For years before Mr. Bush's election boosted the movement statewide, heavily financed media campaigns across Texas have drilled in messages like: "Lawsuit abuse: we all pay, we all lose."
Jurors sometimes cite such messages when they return verdicts for businesses that have been sued.
The change in political attitudes has been so dramatic that some politicians now seem to view measures protecting businesses from suits as uncontroversial "pork" projects for their districts. Not long after a 15-year-old girl was thrown to her death from a carnival ride in Austin, a liberal Democrat from El Paso introduced a bill in the Texas Legislature this year that would have helped amusement park owners fight suits by injured riders.
In an interview, the liberal Democrat, State Representative Norma Chavez, acknowledged that she had introduced the measure at the request of an El Paso amusement park owner who runs the same ride that killed the teen-ager in Austin. "I wasn't even aware that it was a big tort-reform bill," she said.
After a public outcry, the bill was dropped.
Consumer groups here have countered the onslaught with campaigns of their own. Reports from watchdog groups, like Texans for Public Justice, an Austin-based group that tracks political financing, regularly point out that many of the "reformers" are Texas businesses that might simply want to limit their losses in suits.
 
Business View
A Plus: Investment In Communities
The business view of the court system is clear: it has to be brought under control. Otherwise, investors and executives said, investment dollars will flee to places that offer more protection from unpredictable verdicts.
Richard F. Entoven, a Dallas real estate investor, said a statewide chain of coin-operated laundries that he owned until recently had closed some of its locations partly because his business was sued for providing inadequate security. In eight cases, he said, suits were filed after people were attacked and, in one case, murdered on his property by other people.
Mr. Entoven said legal rules made it easy for juries to impose damages on businesses but did not take into account that such verdicts discourage investment. Jurors, he said, can be moved by sympathy for injured people far more than by the consequences of driving investment dollars away from areas that need business activity. The result, he said, is that business people make fewer investments in blighted areas.
"Guys like me," he said, "are not going to be there to be sued because of some poor person who gets shot in the parking lot. The world doesn't see that. The world only sees the poor person who is shot in the parking lot."
One business contributor to Texans for Lawsuit Reform, James McIngvale, a Houston furniture store owner who advertises heavily on television as "Mattress Mac," agreed. He said he had donated $25,000 to the cause. He had learned from experience, he said, that the state's reputation as a haven for lawsuits hurts business.
"As I became more successful," Mr. McIngvale said, "I became more and more of a target for frivolous lawsuits."
He acknowledged, however, that at least one suit had not been frivolous. In 1987, he settled a case after a 300-pound African lion that was on a chain as an attraction at a flea market he owned mauled an 8-year-old girl who was walking by with her parents. The lion, it was later learned, had mauled two children the previous year.
 
Plaintiffs' Positions
Ordinary People See Little Help
But some Texans who have found themselves involved with the courts here recently said they were more concerned with whether the system was still helping protect ordinary people from injuries than with the safety of investment dollars.
In San Antonio, Wilda H. Hosch, a retired secretary who was a juror in the case of the burned refinery worker, said too much protection for business could send a dangerous message. Jurors were angry, she said, when the judge in the case used the law that Mr. Bush had signed limiting punitive damages to cut the $42.5 million verdict.
She said the evidence showed that the company, Ultramar Diamond Shamrock, could have prevented the death of Charles Hall, a 52-year-old refinery worker, if a small sum had been spent to uncover safety valves that had been left buried for years.
Mr. Hall lingered for nine days with burns over half of his body.
In an interview, his widow, Donna Hall, said she pursued the suit because, "I thought, maybe this will make the refineries stop and think." The company did not respond to requests for comment.
Mrs. Hosch, the juror, said the valves would have given Mr. Hall a warning and a chance. Cutting the damages back so sharply, she said, undermined the message the jurors wanted to send. The award of "$200,000 is just pocket change," she said. "They'll just write this off."
 
The Courts' Function
Questioning Role Of Texas Judges
In scores of interviews across Texas with business executives, lawyers, judges, legislators, lobbyists and ordinary people involved in lawsuits, it was clear that the movement to change the law has left people deeply divided over what the function of the courts ought to be.
Some said the courts had to assure that businesses were protected from frivolous claims. But in Houston, a laboratory technician, Kingsley Agbor, said the courts ought to be open to powerless people trying to take on big institutions. But his own experience in a suit, he said, made him think that was no longer true here.
During birth, his son Dikeh was injured and left with one useless arm. The boy, he said, cannot tie his own shoes. Mr. Agbor sued the doctor who attended the birth. The doctor settled.
But Mr. Agbor also sued the hospital for permitting the doctor to practice here. He said he did that because he did not want another family to suffer as his has. It turned out that the hospital had allowed the doctor to practice even though she had been sued for malpractice numerous times and had no Texas insurance.
Half the states allow people to sue hospitals if they believe the hospitals were negligent in giving doctors credentials. But in 1997 the Texas Supreme Court, overruling an intermediate appeals court in Mr. Agbor's case, said it would not permit such suits here.
After a request from a reporter, the hospital, St. Luke's Episcopal, issued a statement saying the Texas Supreme Court "struck a proper balance." Mr. Agbor said his case taught a different lesson. "I don't think the court is for the little man," he said.
Mr. Agbor's case is sometimes cited by consumer advocates here as an example of what they say is an obvious shift away from injured individuals.
One analysis by a consumer group in Austin, Court Watch, showed that individual people involved in suits like Mr. Agbor's have won only 18 percent of the cases before the Supreme Court since the 1995 legal changes were passed. Manufacturers, hospitals and other businesses have won more than 76 percent of the time.
Four of the current members of the nine-member court were first appointed by Governor Bush to fill vacancies.
A study by Texans for Public Justice found that more than 68 percent of the money raised by the current Supreme Court justices in their last elections came from corporation lawyers or people identified as supporters of groups pressing for civil justice changes. Only 4 percent came from plaintiffs' lawyers or consumer groups.
In the interview, Justice Phillips defended his court as one that simply decided each case on its merits. And, he said, the reports suggesting the justices use their decisions to advance the cause of the so-called lawsuit reformers were nothing more than partisan "adjuncts of campaigns" to unseat the incumbent judges.
 
Stark Contrasts
A Single Case, 2 Interpretations
In the end, civil litigation is measured in dollars. In that cold language of personal injury law, injuries are simply worth less here than they were before. The case of the 9-year-old rape victim, her lawyers say, illustrates the changing legal culture of Texas.
The 9-year-old was raped by three youths in an unlocked and vacant apartment in the complex where she lived. Later, prosecutors convicted three teen-agers of the assault.
The girl's lawyers settled their claims against the absent owner of the building for $250,000. But they hoped for more from the management company.
Tommy W. Gillaspie, a Houston lawyer who represents the girl, said that in the early 1990's, before the biggest successes of the movement to limit suits, similar cases brought verdicts of $10 million.
After the legal changes, the civil jury in the case of the 9-year-old found that, if she was entitled to damages at all, they would be limited to $100,000. Since she had received more than that from the complex owner, the judge ruled last fall, she would receive nothing from the management company.
The two sides in the suit saw the case in starkly different terms. After weeks of interviews here, those different views sounded like summaries of the sharply different opinions about the legal system across Texas.
In an interview, the girl's mother, a school secretary, said the courts had let her down. After lawyers' fees were deducted, the $166,000 she received from the owner went quickly toward therapists and medical care. But she said the girl, now a teen-ager, has slipped further into depression every year since the assault and needed help that her family could not afford. In her view, the management company could and should have paid because it had provided the place where her daughter was attacked.
But Brock C. Akers, a lawyer for the management company, said it was only fair that the courts were not holding his client accountable. The courts, he said, were right not to impose liability simply because a defendant had deep pockets and something awful had happened.
"We cannot be responsible for what these children do," he said. "If they were intent on having their way with this child, they could just as easily have taken her into the woods."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kingsley Agbor, whose son, Dikeh, 8, was injured during birth, was not allowed to collect damages from the Houston hospital that allowed the attending doctor to practice despite having been sued several times for malpractice and having no Texas insurance. Even before Gov. George W. Bush of Texas seized on lawsuit abuse as his rallying cry, heavily financed media campaigns, left, were drilling in the message. (Photographs by F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)(pg. A20)
 
Graph: "AT A GLANCE -- Effects on Lawsuits in Texas"
Since tort reformlegislation was enacted in 1995, civil suits are down and plaintiffs win far less often in the Texas Supreme Court, where the top judges are mostly supported by business interests. Graph tracks number of new personal injury cases filed, from 1990 through 1998
 
BEFORE REFORM: Winners of tort cases in the Texas Supreme Court in 1985 (67 cases)
Plaintiffs -- 69%
Manufacturers, hospitals and other defendants -- 28%
Split rulings -- 3%
 
AFTER REFORM: Winners from 199 1995-98 (301 cases) after reform.
Plaintiffs -- 18%
Manufacturers, hospitals and other defendants -- 76%
Split rulings -- 5%
 
Political contributions to the nine members of the Texas Supreme Court in their last elections.
Defense and corporate lawyers and tort reform groups -- 69%
Plaintiffs' lawyers and consumer groups -- 4.0%
Unclassified contributions -- 28%
 
NOTE: Totals may not add to 100 because of rounding.
 
(Sources: Texas Judicial System; Court Watch (Austin, Tex.); Texans for Public Justice)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (99%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS (94%); SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS (94%); HOUSTON TEXANS (59%); HOUSTON TEXANS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS (94%); SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS (94%); HOUSTON TEXANS (59%); HOUSTON TEXANS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (99%); TEXAS, USA (99%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS SUPREME COURTS (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); VERDICTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); DAMAGES (89%); TORT REFORM (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (87%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TORTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); PERSONAL INJURY (74%); SMOKING (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); JOB CREATION (68%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (67%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (67%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); TOBACCO MFG (62%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1999



175 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: LIFE BY DESIGN;
Europe's Profound Fear of Food

BYLINE: By John Micklethwait; John Micklethwait, the New York bureau chief of The Economist, is the co-author of a forthcoming book on globalization.

 BODY:
For anybody from General Motors who is even slightly insecure about his or her position, a trip to London has become a distinctly Kafkaesque experience.
Pick up a tabloid newspaper, flick on a television talk show, study the graffiti on street walls and you are greeted by a constant refrain: "G.M. is evil." At Notting Hill dinner parties, people plot how to drive G.M. back to America; in Soho pubs people mutter that G.M. is "dangerous" and "disgusting." Just about every titled person in London, from the Marchioness of Worcester to Prince Charles, wants to get poor G.M. 
 In fact, the "G.M." that has so enraged Britons stands for "genetically modified," as in "G.M. food" (though opponents now seems to have stopped adding the word "food," presumably out of fear that it will be contaminated by the deadly initials). According to one recent poll, only 1 Briton in 100 (a pollster's way of saying nobody) thinks that genetically modified products like herbicide-resistant soybeans and delayed-ripening tomatoes are good for society.
Despite an expensive advertising campaign by the pioneer in the field, Monsanto, feelings run deep in most of Europe and even parts of Asia. In India activists working for Operation Cremation Monsanto have burned fields of genetically modified crops.
From America, these odd noises coming across the Atlantic and the Pacific may seem like a slightly dottier, more global replay of Britain's mad cow farce. After all, in the United States, there are genetically modified foods in just about every supermarket, and biotechnology is something you buy shares in, not something you boycott. Nevertheless, the current fuss should alarm Americans.
The furor in Britain, which dates back to February, began as a bit of routine political tit-for-tat. Britain's Conservative Party, which took a drubbing over mad cows, accused Tony Blair's Labor Government of ignoring health concerns about genetically altered food. Labor replied (correctly) that there was no credible scientific evidence that it was dangerous. But somehow the phrase "Frankenstein Food" got out, and soon Monsanto (which some public relations genius had rather creepily decided to rebrand as a "life sciences" company) was in the dock. Last week, an organic farmer from Gloucestershire named Charles Windsor (yes, the Prince himself) gave the anti-G.M. crusade a royal seal of approval, warning about "an Orwellian future" in The Daily Mail.
Most arguments against the technique are more sentimental than logical. Genetic modification, albeit of a more gradual sort, has taken place in fields for centuries without any harm to human beings. In many poor parts of the world, the efficiency of genetic modification might be the difference between a harvest and starvation. The most genuine scientific uncertainty seems to be over whether genetically modified seeds wreck local ecosystems, spreading with the winds and contaminating neighboring plants and insects.
Prince Charles's argument that scientists shouldn't try to splice together genes that God deliberately kept apart resonates on a continent where people already have had plenty of unpleasant surprises involving "modern food," even without genetic modification. Britons were a little shocked to discover in the mad cow controversy that their farmers had been feeding bits of dead sheep to cows. Now the European Union has ordered a huge cull of Belgian chickens after the revelation that they had been contaminated by a cancer-causing chemical.
It is a good bet that similar angry and questioning voices will start to be heard in the United States. American agribusiness is not noticeably healthier than the European variety. The $5 billion organic food industry has plainly grown out of the beard-and-sandals ghetto. Although it is hard to imagine the home of the microwave dinner and the Big Mac banning new sorts of food, the argument that genetically modified products should be labeled may prove hard to resist.
Were it just to be a matter of slapping the odd "G.M. free" sticker on cans of beans, then the whole process might be worthwhile. But a second, nastier trend is also at work. The vilification of Monsanto is just one example of a growing anti-American slant to the debate about food in Europe.
Indeed, food safety now seems to be one of the easiest places for ugly nationalist emotions to hide. Europe's Common Agricultural Policy is the single nastiest piece of protectionism in the world; its American equivalent is not much better. Politicians, whether they are Presidential candidates in Iowa or prospective deputies in Normandy, conspicuously avoid talk of reform.
It is not inconceivable that in a decade's time people will look back on the current rows about food as a turning point for both globalization and what used to be called the Western alliance. If so, that old saying -- "what is good for G.M. is good for America" -- may have an ironic ring. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); MON (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (74%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (74%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO MONSANTO UK LTD (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); MONSANTO CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONSANTO CO

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (74%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (74%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING; GENETIC ENGINEERING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (89%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (75%); BRITISH ROYALTY (75%); STARVATION (74%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (72%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POISONINGS (71%); AGRICULTURE (71%); BRANDING (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%); HERBICIDES (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); EATING DISORDERS (60%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (59%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); 

PERSON: MICKLETHWAIT, JOHN PRINCE CHARLES (54%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1999



176 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Cochran and Kosovo

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
You don't need to be Clausewitz to figure out what finally brought Slobodan Milosevic to the negotiating table on NATO's terms and why he is now stalling again. The answer to both questions is Russia.
The best way to understand Russia's critical role is to think of a divorce proceeding: You are negotiating a divorce with your wife. She has no lawyer and you have Johnnie Cochran. Every time your wife asks for something, Mr. Cochran steps in to protect you with a point of law. Things are going so well, you ask for a lunch break. When you come back from lunch you find that Mr. Cochran has switched sides and is now acting as your wife's lawyer, nodding in agreement at all her demands. You're in trouble. 
 Russia is Johnnie Cochran in this story. It started out as Mr. Milosevic's lawyer. But when Boris Yeltsin dismissed Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov last month it was a crucial turning point in the war. Russia moved from being Mr. Milosevic's advocate over to NATO's side of the table. The combination of that Russian switcheroo and NATO's decision to really intensify the bombing and bring the war home to the Serbian people was what brought Mr. Milosevic to deal. NATO brought the roof down, and Russia pulled the rug out.
The merciless air war was necessary to bring this Kosovo crisis to a diplomatic solution. But it was not sufficient. Russia's maneuvers were also critical; Mr. Milosevic certainly would have felt emboldened to hang on longer if he thought he still had Russia on his side.
What is happening right now is that Mr. Milosevic, by delaying and haggling, is making one last effort to restore Russia as his lawyer, by giving time for those forces in Russia that hate this deal -- namely the Gromykoites in the Russian Foreign Ministry, as well as the nationalists and Communists -- to assert themselves and get him better terms.
That is why what is at stake here is both the future of the Kosovo conflict and the future of U.S.-Russia relations. Boris Yeltsin understands that. Yes, he may have one foot stuck in the grave and one hand wrapped around a vodka bottle, but the reason he sacked Mr. Primakov and brought in the pro-American Viktor Chernomyrdin as his envoy was because of his gut belief that Russia's future lies with integration with the West and the global economy.
But Mr. Yeltsin is weak, and it's not clear he can impose his policy on his own negotiators from the Russian Foreign Ministry. There is a real fight going on now inside Moscow. Virtually the entire political class in Russia today has turned anti-Western and anti-American. They were moving that way before, and Kosovo intensified the trend. The dominant school -- the Gromykoites, nationalists and Communists -- are more than happy to see the U.S. and NATO sink in the mud of the Balkans, particularly since NATO has just been expanded into Russia's face. The minority school are the Yeltsinites. These are the pro-Western democratic realists, who believe Russia cannot get out of its own mudhole without domestic reform and integration with the West. But they are on the defensive.
That is why if this deal comes together it is critical that the U.S. and its NATO allies find a way to strengthen the Yeltsinites. Because Boris is not going to be around much longer, and there simply is no stable European security order without a reasonably cooperative Russia. Indeed, there is no problem of the post-cold-war era -- rogue states, loose nukes, weapons proliferation, drugs or mafia -- that we can effectively address at a tolerable price without the cooperation of Russia. Russia's tilt our way was crucial against both Iraq and Serbia. The Czechs, Poles and Hungarians buy us nothing.
Which is why the best way to strengthen the pro-Western, democratic realists in Russia is to offer them something that would be meaningful in their own internal struggles and would demonstrate that cooperation with the West pays. NATO should declare at next week's G-8 summit meeting that NATO expansion is now indefinitely on hold and that NATO is ready to consider, under the right conditions, bringing Russia in as a member. NATO should do now what it should have done 10 years ago, and that is lay down a clear, step-by-step pathway for bringing Russia into Europe. Russia is in play -- so let's play. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); FAMILY LAW (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); 

PERSON: SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (93%); BORIS YELTSIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



177 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Fewer Viewers, More Commercials

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
What's the hottest phenomenon on television today? For the public, it might well be a hit show like "Ally McBeal" or "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," but for the broadcast networks, it is something more fleeting: those brief interludes known as commercial time.
In a frantic period of negotiations, the sale of prime-time commercial slots for the fall season -- known as the up-front market -- is exceeding even the most optimistic forecasts made by top television executives as recently as last month. 
 "It has been an extraordinary up-front this year," said David Verklin, chief executive at the Carat North America media services agency in New York, a unit of Aegis Group P.L.C. that buys advertising for marketers. "If you blinked your eyes, you missed it."
Network and advertising executives are projecting that up-front sales by the six networks -- ABC, CBS, the Fox Broadcasting Company, NBC, UPN and WB -- will climb at least 13 percent , to $7.25 billion, from about $6.4 billion last year. Only a few weeks ago, they were estimating a more moderate increase to a range of $6.8 billion to $7 billion.
And broadcasters are enjoying increased sales for daytime, news and late-night programs as well as for prime-time shows. Add the revenue from those spots to the prime-time take and the total up-front take could reach $10 billion.
"I knew there was a lot of money out there, but not that much," said Paul Schulman, president of Schulman/Advanswers NY, a media services agency in New York owned by the Omnicom Group.
Better yet, the rivulet of advertising money from all those hot Internet companies that have gone public lately could soon become a flood, analysts say.
The advertising bonanza, fueled by a strong economy and a rush by marketers to the medium that remains the quickest and surest route to consumers' wallets, is confounding a longstanding assumption that broadcast television is in an irreversible decline as cable TV steals market share.
"The dollars pouring in surprised both the networks and the advertisers," said Peter Chrisanthopoulos, president for broadcast and programming in the United States at Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide in New York, the giant agency owned by WPP Group P.L.C.
It is, after all, a paradox. The broadcast networks raking in more money than ever even as they deliver fewer eyeballs to advertisers.
The 1998-99 season brought all-time low Nielsen ratings as only one of the six broadcast networks, WB, owned by Time Warner Inc. and the Tribune Company, attracted a larger audience than in 1997-98. In the last five years, the audience share for the broadcast networks has declined to 55 percent from 69 percent as cable television draws more Americans to their TV sets.
Reflecting that, the cable up-front market, now under way, is on fire. There are estimates that the cable networks will sell $3.6 billion to $3.8 billion worth of commercial time ahead of their 1999-2000 season, compared with $2.8 billion for the 1998-99 season.
So why the sudden surge in advertising dollars? There are a lot of factors, but two stand out: the economy, and the power of being No. 1.
America's eight-year economic expansion, the second longest on record, is one of the wonders of the 1990's. It has been largely fueled by consumer spending -- and that means, of course, that companies have a powerful motivation to increase their advertising budgets.
And through it all, for all the audience losses, all the defections to cable and the Internet, all the problems of broadcast television, there remains the salient fact that television is still the most powerful influence on consumer behavior.
"Television in general is the most impactful medium, the medium that can sell clients' products best," Mr. Chrisanthopoulos at Ogilvy & Mather said. "The sight, the sound, the motion, the ubiquitous nature of it makes it the most integral part of most clients' media plans."
Broadcast TV can still command huge audiences, even if they are smaller than in the days when Desi loved Lucy, Archie loved Edith and Sam loved Diane. And those audiences are much larger than those commanded by any cable network.
In a fractionalized media market, audience size is relative, according to Mr. Verklin of Carat North America.
"In the land of dwarfs," as he put it, "the 5-foot guy is the center of the basketball team."
For instance, about 127.5 million Americans saw Super Bowl XXXIII on Fox in January. About 78 million people watched at least part of the Academy Awards broadcast on ABC in March. And last month, when the sitcom "Home Improvement" presented its series finale, 35.5 million viewers came to watch ABC.
That means that marketers both in traditional categories like automobiles, financial services and retailing, and in booming industries like telecommunications, computers and electronic-commerce need to keep peddling their wares on the broadcast networks. Indeed, advertising revenues, adjusted for inflation, have been fairly strong in the last three years after more than a decade of stagnation.
"If you want to get to the mass audience," Mr. Schulman said, broadcast TV "is where you have to be."
"For anybody introducing anything who has to lasso audience in a hurry -- a new product, a new campaign, a new movie -- the networks are still the biggest show in town," he added.
Those sentiments are, of course. music to the ears of the sales executives at the broadcast networks. They prize their ability to reach broader audiences than most cable networks, which appeal to narrower viewerships with their focus on subjects like sports, news and weather.
"It's always a concern when your audience is eroded," said Randy Falco, president of the NBC-TV Network unit of NBC in New York, part of the General Electric Company, but "to get through to America, you have to come through the networks."
The sizzling up-front market showed that broadcast TV "is still working," he added. "That's the message."
Indeed, broadcasters are scheduling additional series this fall aimed at the younger audiences that advertisers crave, filled with teen-agers and 20-somethings whose looks are easy on the eyes and whose plot lines will no doubt be easy on the mind.
"We have a major crisis," said Bob Igiel, president for the broadcast division of the Media Edge in New York, the media services arm of the agency company Young & Rubicam Inc. "There isn't a kid left in high school in Los Angeles; they're all doing TV shows."
To be sure, networks also have to cope with rising costs for programs. Moreover, it is almost impossible to calculate the impact of the surge in advertising on the profits or stock prices of the networks' owners because they are generally huge conglomerates, like G.E. or the Walt Disney Company, the parent of ABC, that have so many other sources of revenue.
And the networks are not just sitting back and enjoying the advertising windfall, either. "The lesson for all of us" in the shrinking audience shares, said Mr. Falco of the NBC-TV Network, "is that you can't stand still."
That's why NBC is "embracing" the Internet, he added, with services like Snap.com; investing in cable networks like MSNBC, a joint venture with the Microsoft Corporation, and "starting the process of cross-selling" among its older and newer media properties.
For ABC, the answer to "how you stop erosion" is "to get the viewer more interested," said Marv Goldsmith, president for sales and marketing at the ABC Television Network unit of ABC in New York. That includes a presence on the Internet, with the Go Network, he added, as well as this self-evident strategy: "You put on better programs. It's as simple as that."
That is, needless to tell anyone who sat through the many lame sitcoms, violent "reality" programs and soporific dramas that characterized the 1998-99 season, easier said than done.
"I don't see any tremendously exciting things the networks are doing to justify this," said Gene DeWitt, president and chief executive of DeWitt Media in New York, a media services agency, referring to the higher prices in the up-front market. "It's not like there's great new programming to get more audience."
It all depends on how you define "great," of course. Mr. DeWitt predicted that the six networks' erosion in audience would slow to a 3 percent decline in the coming season from a 7 percent loss in 1998-99.
And the reason? Mr. Dewitt anticipates that a two-hour weekly wrestling series to be added to the prime-time schedule of UPN, the low-rated network owned by Chris-Craft Industries and Viacom Inc., will lure viewers from the hugely popular wrestling shows on cable networks.
But as a TV industry saying proclaims, at this point in a new season, every show is a hit.
And at this point, too, another saying comes into play: success begets success. Almost nobody thinks the advertising bonanza will reverse itself anytime soon, barring a recession.
"There's still a significant amount of money to come," said David Poltrack, executive vice president for research and planning at CBS Television in New York, part of the CBS Corporation, to be spent after the 1999-2000 season starts by "the new part of the advertising marketplace," particularly the so-called dot-com advertisers like E-commerce Web sites and other Internet marketers.
All in all, it is a time for celebration on broadcast row. "We all thought it was going to be a very, very strong marketplace," said Jon Nesvig, president for sales at Fox in New York, part of the News Corporation, "but it was much stronger than either side thought it would be."
Last year, Mr. Nesvig had a one-word response when asked how broadcasters fared in the up-front: "Phew!," as in relief at not losing sales because of shrinking viewership.
Reminded of that last week, he replied, laughing, "This year, maybe it's a 'Wow!' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Illustration (Illustration by Andy Chen)(pg. C1)
 
Graphs: "Prime-Time Pay"
Despite losing viewers to cable, broadcast networks are breaking sales records for prime-time advertising in the 1999-2000 season, according to industry estimates.
 
Estimated advance advertising revenue
 
NBC
1999-2000 season -- $2.2 billion
1998-1999 season -- $2.1 billion
 
ABC
1999-2000 season -- $1.9 billion
1998-1999 season -- $1.6 billion
 
CBS
1999-2000 season -- $1.4 billion
1998-1999 season -- $1.2 billion
 
FOX
1999-2000 season -- $1.3 billion
1998-1999 season -- $1.1 billion
 
WB
1999-2000 season -- $450 million
1998-1999 season -- $300 million
 
UPN
1999-2000 season -- $150 million
1998-1999 season -- $150 million
 
(Sources: industry estimates; The Myers Report)(pg. C1)
 
"More for Less"
While networks have been losing their share of viewers, revenues keep climbing. Graph tracks primetime TV viewing share for all networks, from 1978 through 1998. It also tracks estimated TV network advertising revenue, adjusted for inflation, over the same period. (Sources: Nielsen Media Research; McCann-Erickson)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (84%); WPP (LSE) (84%); TWX (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); WPP PLC (84%); DENTSU AEGIS NETWORK LTD (70%); TIME WARNER INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); MARKET SHARE (88%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); 

PERSON: DAVID VERKLIN (55%); PETER CHRISANTHOPOULOS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



178 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: McCormick Plans Cuts, Largely in Britain

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: SPARKS, Md., June 7

 BODY:
McCormick & Company Inc., the world's largest spice maker, said it would dismiss 300 workers and consolidate three British plants into two to free more money for new products and advertising.
The job cuts, which will affect about 4 percent of McCormick's worldwide work force, will come mostly in Europe, with a few taking place in the United States, a company spokesman said. The location of the British operation to be closed was not disclosed. 
 The restructuring, after a one-time gain in how the company accounts for some pension fund assets, will result in a fiscal second-quarter charge of $15 million, or 20 cents a share. The company is expected to earn 25 cents, the average estimate of analysts surveyed by the First Call Corporation.
Additional charges of $4 million, or 7 cents a share, will accrue in the third and fourth quarters, and a charge of about $1 million, or 2 cents, will be accounted for in 2000. The restructuring of McCormick, Which is based here, is expected to yield annual savings of about $6 million. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MKC (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311942 SPICE & EXTRACT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (97%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (97%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

COMPANY: MCCORMICK & CO INC (MKC) MCCORMICK & CO INC (97%); FIRST CALL CORP (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCCORMICK & CO INC (MKC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD AND COOKING; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; GREAT BRITAIN LAYOFFS (90%); SPICE & EXTRACT MFG (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (88%); LABOR FORCE (88%); PENSION FUNDS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



179 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices Find Shortcuts to Federal Appeals by State Inmates Unacceptable

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7

 BODY:
The Supreme Court shut the door tighter today on state inmates' access to Federal court, ruling that prisoners who have not first appealed to their state's highest court forfeit their right to Federal court review even if it was evident that the state appeal would be fruitless.
Under the Federal law governing habeas corpus -- constitutional review of a conviction or sentence -- a state inmate must first "have exhausted the remedies available in the courts of the state" before seeking a Federal court's assistance. The question for the Justices today, in a case from Illinois, was whether the available remedies that must first be exhausted include an appeal to a state high court where the criteria for selecting cases make it virtually certain that the inmate's case will not even be heard. 
 The 6-to-3 decision overturned a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, in Chicago. That court held last year that because the Illinois Supreme Court's rules were clearly intended to discourage the filing of routine criminal appeals, it would be unfair to penalize prisoners who try to follow those rules by going directly to Federal court. In 1997, the Illinois Supreme Court reviewed only 33 of 1,072 criminal cases, a ratio roughly similar to the Justices' own rate of granting cases.
All convicted defendants in Illinois are guaranteed the right to an initial appeal before an intermediate court. The inmate in this case, Darren Boerckel, a convicted rapist, had raised six issues for appeal before the intermediate court, but presented only three of them to the Illinois Supreme Court. The Seventh Circuit ruled that the Federal District Court in Peoria could nonetheless consider all six.
Writing for the majority today, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said that as a matter of Federal-state relations, as long as a state has given its supreme court the choice to review a case, Federal courts should require that state inmates make use of the available process so that the state court has a chance to exercise its discretionary jurisdiction. Any issues not raised in the state supreme court should be considered defaulted, she said. If the state declines to hear a case, the inmate can then appeal to Federal court.
The principle Justice O'Connor invoked was the doctrine of "comity," an aspect of federalism meaning that the Federal Government should respect state institutions.
"This rule of comity reduces friction between the state and Federal court systems by avoiding the unseemliness of a Federal district court's overturning a state court conviction without the state courts having had an opportunity to correct the constitutional violation in the first instance," Justice O'Connor said.
For nearly 20 years, the Court has been invoking federalism principles to cut back on the Federal courts' ability, through granting writs of habeas corpus, to review the quality of justice being administered by the states.
But the dissenters today, Justices John Paul Stevens, Stephen B. Breyer and Ruth Bader Ginsburg, objected that comity really supported the opposite result in this case, O'Sullivan v. Boerckel, No. 97-2048. If a state high court made it clear that it did not want to be burdened with routine appeals, Justice Stevens said in an opinion the other two dissenters also signed, then Federal courts should not adopt a rule that has the effect of forcing inmates to add to this unwanted burden.
"Most ironically," Justice Stevens said, the Court's decision "will undermine federalism by thwarting the interests of those state supreme courts that administer discretionary dockets."
Justice O'Connor's majority opinion was joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and by Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy, Clarence Thomas and David H. Souter. Justice Souter also wrote a concurring opinion to say state supreme courts could insulate themselves from the impact of the decision by issuing more precise rules about the kinds of appeals they wanted to deflect to the Federal courts and did not want to hear themselves.
As the Court's momentum seemed to flag with less than a month to go in term, there were also these other developments today:
 
Methane Gas Ownership
The Court ruled that Federal laws dating to early in the century, which gave the Government ownership of coal found under millions of acres of Western land, did not apply to the methane gas that is also found in the coal beds. The property owners own the gas, Justice Kennedy said in a 7-to-1 opinion. Justice Ginsburg dissented, and Justice Breyer did not participate.
The decision, Amoco Production Company v. Southern Ute Tribe, No. 98-830, was a victory for a group of energy producers who owned the lands. It overturned a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit, in Denver. The Government argued unsuccessfully that the Coal Lands Acts of 1909 and 1910 reserved to itself both coal and gas. Justice Kennedy said that was not the intent of Congress, because methane gas was seen at the time as a dangerous and unwanted byproduct, only much later acquiring economic value.
The Southern Ute tribe had been granted the coal rights by the Government and had been seeking ownership of the gas as well.
 
Juvenile Executions
Acting on an appeal by a Nevada death-row inmate who committed a double murder in 1993 at age 16, the Court asked the Clinton Administration for its views on the issue the inmate raised: whether Nevada is bound by an international treaty the United States has signed that bars executing those who committed their crimes before age 18.
President Jimmy Carter signed the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in 1977. When the Senate ratified it in 1992, it attached a "reservation," at the urging of President George Bush, declining to accept the capital punishment provision. An additional question raised by Michael Domingues, the inmate in this case, Domingues v. Nevada, No. 98-8327, is whether that action was valid.
The Supreme Court ruled in 1989 that the execution of someone who had killed at age 16 did not violate the Constitution.
The Nevada Supreme Court upheld Mr. Domingues's death sentence in 1996. Subsequently, his lawyers filed a new appeal seeking a "correction of illegal sentence." The Nevada Supreme Court rejected that appeal last year by 3-to-2 vote.
The Administration's views, expected next fall, are not binding on the Court, which will eventually make its own decision, if it chooses to hear the case. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); PEORIA, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS (82%); SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS (82%); SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); PEORIA, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SUPREME COURTS (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HABEAS CORPUS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (71%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



180 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
The Dow Rises 109.54 Points as Merger News Continues

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Stock prices rose yesterday, lifted by a brace of merger announcements and an apparent sense that any move by the Federal Reserve Board to raise interest rates would be a one-time event rather than part of a prolonged tightening of policy.
Paced by Allied Signal, which said it was merging with Honeywell, the Dow Jones industrial average rose for the fifth time in the last six sessions, closing at its highest level since mid-May. 
 Sectors that have been battered recently, including computers, Internet stocks and financial services companies, rebounded, helping to push up broader market averages.
However, trading volume was quite light -- it was the second-slowest day of the year on the New York Stock Exchange -- leading some analysts and traders to question the significance of the rise in prices.
"We are getting a lot of movement on very thin volume," said William Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. "From an investment point of view, there is an extraordinary amount of risk in the market. But from a short-term perspective, it looks like people want to trade this thing higher."
By the close, the Dow was up 109.54 points, or 1 percent, at 10,909.38.
Gains in stocks like Dell Computer, American International Group and DuPont pushed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ahead by 6.77 points, or five-tenths of 1 percent, to 1,334.52. Weakness in drug stocks like Pfizer and Eli Lilly limited the S.& P.'s advance.
The Nasdaq composite index soared 45.87 points, or 1.9 percent, to 2,524.21, propelled by technology stocks. TheStreet.com's Internet index rose 32.41 points, or 5.9 percent, to 583.87. And small-cap stocks did well: the Russell 2000 gained 4.32 points, or 1 percent, to 446.65.
Some traders suggested that the increase in prices was a follow-through from the gains on Friday, after the release of May employment data showing that the nation's labor market remained robust.
But the bond market, which more or less shrugged at the job figures, failed to rally yesterday; traders appear convinced that the Fed will raise rates at the end of the month.
Some analysts were not so sure. "I am pretty clearly in the minority, but I don't expect the Fed to raise rates," said Henry Herrmann, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed in Overland Park, Kan., a firm that manages more than $27 billion in assets, adding, "I see too many signs saying there is no inflation."
Financial service stocks, battered by the recent run-up in interest rates, recovered a bit yesterday.
Bank of America, a component of the S.& P. 500, rose 1 3/8, to 66 1/4. American Express, a Dow component, gained 2 3/4, to 128. Merrill Lynch was up 1 5/8 at 73 7/8. And Morgan Stanley Dean Witter jumped 3 1/16, to 94 1/16.
Allied Signal, the leading maker of flight systems, rose 4 7/16, to 62 13/16 after confirming that it would buy Honeywell, the world's largest maker of automated controls, for $14.8 billion in stock, plus the assumption of debt. Honeywell jumped 7, to 112.
Columbia Energy Group jumped 7 7/16, to 63 3/16, after disclosing that it had received a hostile takeover bid of $68 a share from Nisource Inc., a natural gas and electricity company. Nisource shares fell 5/8, to 27 9/16.
Among technology stocks, I.B.M. rose 4 1/2, to 120 1/2, after it announced an $8 billion technology sales agreement with Acer Group of Taiwan. Microsoft, which introduced Office 2000 yesterday, gained 11/16, to 80 1/4. EMC rose 1 13/16, to 53 3/4. Dell Computer rose 1 7/8, to 35 3/4, and Hewlett-Packard gained 3 1/2, to 94.
Internet issues, which have been in a correction phase in recent weeks, recovered some lost ground yesterday. At Home rose 9 1/4, to 103 3/4; Ebay was up 14 3/4 at 183 1/4; Yahoo gained 4 7/16, to 151 7/8, and Amazon.com rose 8 15/16, to 117 3/8.
Drug stocks fell on concern that pharmaceutical companies would be forced to cut prices if the Clinton Administration succeeded in its effort to offer drug benefits to elderly Americans insured through Medicare.
Pfizer fell 4 1/8, to 111; Merck was down 1 5/16 at 69 5/16; Eli Lilly dropped 3 3/8, to 71 7/8, and Schering-Plough was off 1 3/8 at 47 1/2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); PFZ (LSE) (54%); PFE (NYSE) (54%); LLY (SWX) (54%); LLY (NYSE) (54%); TST (NASDAQ) (53%); WDR (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); PFIZER INC (54%); ELI LILLY & CO (54%); THESTREET INC (53%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (51%); WADDELL & REED INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KANSAS, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (93%); MERGERS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BONDS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); EXECUTIVES (68%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



181 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries CloseUnchanged After an Early-Session Rally

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Bond prices faltered yesterday after rising earlier in the session for the first time in more than a week as the higher yield level for Treasuries attracted investors.
As a result, at the end of New York trading, the price of the benchmark 30-year bond was unchanged, at 90 5/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, remained at 5.96 percent. 
 The covering of short positions in midmorning trading pushed prices to session highs briefly, but concern that the strong economy will ignite inflation and a lack of sustained interest limited those gains.
"The market is also waiting for retail sales, which may well be stronger than the last couple of months and the Consumer Price Index," said Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management. "It has built in strong expectations of a near-term Fed tightening."
Referring to the Commerce Department's scheduled release of the Consumer Price Index, Mr. Fine continued, "Even if next week's C.P.I. is nonthreatening, the Fed is still likely to tighten on June 30, irrespective of the May C.P.I. because even a subdued C.P.I. would have to completely reverse market expectations in order to keep the central bank on hold, which is very unlikely."
Adam Blankman, an analyst at Standard & Poor's MMS in San Francisco, puts the chances for a Fed move at slightly less than even. "If you thought the May employment report would provide a clear sense of where the Fed would be headed in the month ahead, then think again," he said. "The data were far from bullish, but there were enough contradictions to prevent Treasuries from extending the recent slide."
Many market participants are already predicting a quarter-point increase and expect this week's economic reports to provide enough incentive for the 30-year bond to test the 6 percent level, though Mr. Blankman thinks that the final outcome will rest with the midmonth Congressional testimony by Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman.
"We believe the Fed will wait for a smoking gun to hike rates," Mr. Blankman said.
Robert Pugliese, senior vice president and director of fixed income at the J. W. Genesis Financial Corporation in Boca Raton, Fla., said: "It's difficult psychologically to buy today when there is a chance it will be cheaper tomorrow. We have not seen the highest rates for the year yet."
During yesterday's weekly auction of new bills, the three-month bills were awarded at an average rate of 4.51 percent, down from 4.62 percent last week, while the six-month bills were awarded at an average rate of 4.76 percent, a tick higher than 4.75 percent in that same auction a week ago.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.860	97.594	High Rate	4.51%	4.76%	Coupon Yield	4.63%	4.95%	Low Rate	4.41%	4.69%	Median Rate	4.50%	4.75%	Total applied for	$32,685,130	$26,499,479	Accepted	$11,571,380	$11,481,479	Noncompetitive	$1,299,548	$1,082,279	

Both issues are dated June 10, 1999. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 9, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 12, 1999.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate at weekly auction, since February. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (63%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); TESTIMONY (61%); RETAIL SALES (55%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



182 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Some Dismay in Honeywell's Hometown

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, June 7

 BODY:
Honeywell Inc.'s merger with Allied Signal would result in the loss of a corporate headquarters here, the loss of up to 1,000 local jobs, and the migration of one of the region's leading philanthropic institutions.
Known in millions of American homes for its thermostats, the company is rooted in the Twin Cities and is renowned here for making generous charitable donations, amounting to about $13.4 million last year. Honeywell said the merged company would maintain its financial commitment to the area, particularly to the low-income neighborhood in which its headquarters is situated. But local officials and civic leaders expressed dismay at news of the merger. 
 In the Phillips neighborhood, where Honeywell is based, and which is perhaps the poorest section of Minneapolis, there was a strong reaction.
"They've always given us grants on a large basis as long as we kept performing the tasks we set out to do," said Anna Bowlds-Perkins, chairwoman of the board of the Phillips Community Development Corporation, a job-training center. She added, "With them leaving, yeah, I think it's going to make a big difference. Their presence is important."
Largely to help bolster the Phillips area, the company established the Honeywell Foundation in 1957, and has funneled most of its charitable donations through the foundation, which will move to New Jersey, said Pearse O'Laughlin, the company's corporate public relations manager.
"The commitments we've made in the Twin Cities will be maintained," Mr. O'Laughlin said. The company, one of the 10 largest in Minnesota, will retain the headquarters building, he said, and continue to be the center of the home and building control division, which includes the thermostat operation.
Of more than 7,000 Honeywell employees in Minnesota, where the general economy is booming, more than 6,000 will remain, he said. The others will transfer to New Jersey or other locations, or be laid off.
Among Honeywell's philanthropic efforts is a high school, called New Vistas, which has operated within the headquarters since 1990. It will continue there, he said. New Vistas provides education to pregnant and teen-age mothers. Already, 142 women have graduated from the school.
Honeywell has also contributed $4.8 million, and thousands of employees donated their labor and helped build 51 new owner-occupied, three- and four-bedroom houses here. So far, 20 of the 51 houses are finished. They cost $60,000 to $90,000 each.
"We've been making dramatic progress," said Peter McLaughlin, a Hennepin County Board member representing the south Minneapolis area, who worked closely with Honeywell on the project. But he added: "Now we're being victimized by larger corporate powers over which we have no control. To lose that capacity is a huge loss for the community."
Amy Phenix, a spokeswoman for Mayor Sharon Sayles Belton of Minneapolis, said the departure of Honeywell would be very disappointing. "Honeywell has been a community partner in the city of Minneapolis," she said. "I think simply its presence in the city for 114 years as a major corporate powerhouse will be of a great loss, but we're not feeling completely gloom and doom."
And Mr. McLaughlin said: "I think that's true that the philanthropic contributions will continue. But after some time, the impetus, the energy will dissipate because Honeywell will no longer be in the neighborhood." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (93%); HON (LSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (93%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INC (HON); ALLIED SIGNAL INC HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (93%); NEW VISTAS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONEYWELL INC (HON); ALLIED SIGNAL INC NEW VISTAS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; MINNEAPOLIS (MINN) CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MFG (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); MERGERS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); WOMEN (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); ADOLESCENTS (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



183 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: It's That Time Again: Pay Raise Debated for City Officials

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
Every four years, the world stages a Summer Olympics. Every four years, the United States elects a President. And every four years, a mayoral commission in New York City recommends pay increases for the city's elected officials.
That quadrennial moment for the city came yesterday, when a salary-review commission appointed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani released several recommendations, including proposals that the Mayor receive an 18 percent pay increase of $30,000, to $195,000 a year, and that the members of the City Council receive a 27.6 increase of $19,500, to $90,000 a year, for what is considered to be a part-time job. 
 "Although New York City is by far the largest and most complex U.S. city to manage," the commission said in its report, "its elected officials currently are not compensated at a level commensurate with their responsibilities" in comparison with their counterparts in other cities across the country.
Mayor Giuliani, who was on a political trip to the Buffalo region, released a statement saying that he would issue "recommendations for approval, disapproval or modification" within 30 days to the Council, which has the final vote on the matter. But the Council is not likely to reject any formal recommendation of pay raises for its members.
"Obviously, the commission recognized that officials have not gotten raises in four years, and they don't get cost-of-living increases," Michael Clendenin, a spokesman for the Council, said. He added: "There has to be some incentive for people to want to seek office."
More than 30 years ago, in recognition of how pay raises for elected officials tend to inflame public passion, the city established a panel through which three private citizens would make recommendations. Just saying the panel's complete name could be counted as civic duty: Quadrennial Advisory Commission for the Review of Compensation Levels of Elected Officials.
Yesterday's recommendation marked the third time in this decade that the commission has released its report. And each time, the reaction it received reflected the city's position on the economic roller coaster that often affects its budget.
In 1991, for example, the commission said that elected officials deserved pay increases, but advised against giving them because of the city's budget crisis at the time. Both Mayor David N. Dinkins and Peter F. Vallone, the Council Speaker, agreed.
In 1995, the commission recommended across-the-board pay increases for 64 of the city's elected officials, including the Mayor, the Comptroller, the Public Advocate, the 51 Council members, the five borough presidents and the five district attorneys. The recommendations came at a time when Mayor Giuliani was slashing spending during the tail end of the city's budget problems.
Everyone accepted the approved raises except Public Advocate Mark Green, who said at the time that he could not "in good conscience accept a large salary increase" when services to the poor were being cut and he was being forced to lay off members of his staff. Although the job's annual salary rose by $20,000, to $125,000, he did not accept the additional money.
Yesterday, however, Mr. Green indicated that the economy was good enough at this point to allow him to accept a $25,000 pay increase, to $150,000.
"The Public Advocate refused an earlier pay increase for three years because the city and his office faced a fiscal crisis," Richard Schrader, a spokesman, said. "Without such a budget problem now, he wouldn't refuse this legislative increase."
Richard Gelb, chairman emeritus of the Bristol-Myers-Squibb Company, returned as chairman of the commission. His report said that even with the proposed raise, the Mayor of New York would still earn less than the Mayor of Chicago, a much smaller city that presents nowhere near the same complexities (although Chicago's Mayor is not provided with the residential equivalent to Gracie Mansion).
The report also pointed out that the Mayor's salary is less than that of several other public executives, including Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew and Robert E. Boyle, executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. The overall arguments raised by the commission were so similar to previous reports, in fact, that some of the language was copied verbatim from the 1995 recommendations.
The report did not take into account the perks -- known as "lulus" -- that Council members routinely receive for heading various committees. These annual perks can range from a low of $3,000, for those out of favor with the leadership, to $35,000, the amount that the Speaker collects.
The report also compared the current Council salary of $70,500 a year to that in other cities. In Los Angeles, for example, full-time Council members receive $110,612, while part-time Council members in Washington collect $92,520.
"I don't begrudge city elected officials a raise after four years, but these seem on the high side," said Gene Russianoff, senior attorney for the New York Public Interest Research Group, a nonprofit watchdog agency. "And we think in exchange for the raise, Council members should agree to full-time service -- which means as a practical matter restricting the outside outcome they can earn."
But even Mr. Russianoff doubted that the Council would take up his suggestion at the public hearing it will hold on the proposals later this month. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BUDGETS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); OLYMPICS (73%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



184 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Budget Passes, Focusing on the Young and the Old

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
The City Council yesterday unanimously approved a $35.3 billion budget that uses the city's record tax revenue to provide a number of modest tax cuts and includes substantial spending increases on services for children and the elderly.
Council members said the city's buoyant economy and the subsequent tax surplus allowed them to restore cuts proposed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to cultural institutions, libraries and other agencies. 
 "As many of my colleagues have said before me, this budget is a pleasure to vote for," Councilwoman Kathryn E. Freed, a Democrat, said as she prepared to cast her vote. "A few years ago, the budgets we were looking at were draconian, but this is light years away from that."
Council leaders had hoped to include a host of tax cuts that would have helped businesses, working parents and home buyers, but they were forced to scale back their wish list when the State Legislature repealed the city's tax on New York commuters last month. That action will reduce revenue by at least $210 million a year.
Instead, Peter F. Vallone, the Council Speaker, focused yesterday on the millions of dollars the Council added to the budgets of the Board of Education, the Department of Youth and Community Development and the Department for the Aging.
"This budget truly represents the people's needs," he said. "Its message is clear: education and our elderly are our priorities."
The budget provides $80 million for science and computer laboratories in public schools, $4.5 million for after-school and other youth programs, and $16 million for new centers and services to help keep the elderly out of nursing homes.
The tax cuts include a tax relief program for owners of co-ops and condominiums, the elimination of the sales tax on clothing and shoes that cost less than $110 and an earned income tax credit for low-income families.
Council leaders had reached an agreement with Mr. Giuliani on the general terms of the budget last week, but individual Council members yesterday pored over the details of the spending plan for the next fiscal year, which begins on July 1, to insure that programs they had lobbied for had been included.
These "member items" include projects ranging from neighborhood hockey and baseball teams to meals for elderly citizens and computers for local libraries. Member items this year totaled about $15 million.
In response to criticism that the budget did not go far enough to deal with the city's long-term debt of $37 billion, Councilman Alfonso C. Stabile, a Republican from Queens, said, "The bottom line is what we can bring home to your district and your constituents, and when you look at it that way, this is a good budget."
Councilman Sheldon S. Leffler, a Democrat from Queens, offered the harshest criticism of the budget, saying it relied too heavily on the city's strong economy and did too little to narrow the long-term gap between the city's spending and its projected revenue.
In other action, the Council voted 47 to 3, with one member absent, to approve a proposed $1.5 billion rail link to connect Kennedy International Airport to local subways and commuter trains. Construction on the light rail train that is to connect all airport terminals and run to the subway station at Howard Beach and the Long Island Rail Road station in Jamaica is to be completed in 2003. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); AGING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); PARENTING (78%); SALES TAX (78%); MAYORS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); SCIENCE FUNDING (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); NURSING HOMES (72%); LIBRARIES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (70%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (63%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (63%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); BASEBALL (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



185 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON WILL SEEK A MEDICARE CHANGE ON DRUG COVERAGE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7

 BODY:
President Clinton will soon propose revamping the Medicare program to offer prescription drug coverage to all beneficiaries, and he will contend that such coverage can actually save money for the Government by reducing the need for hospital stays and nursing home care, Administration officials said today.
The officials said the premium for the extra drug coverage would be less than $25 a month and could be as low as $10 a month. 
 The President intends to unveil his plan later this month, as an alternative to one proposed in March by the leaders of a 17-member advisory commission. His proposal will give a big push to efforts by Democratic lawmakers to cover prescription drugs, a change long sought by older Americans.
White House officials said Mr. Clinton would not try to impose Federal controls on drug prices. Rather, they said, under his proposal, the Government would hire private companies to help buy drugs and manage the new drug benefit. Such "pharmacy benefit managers" could control costs by obtaining discounts from drug manufacturers and drugstores, and by preventing overuse or misuse of prescription drugs, the Administration contends.
"We would never do price controls," a senior White House official said.
The proposed drug benefit is the centerpiece of Mr. Clinton's plan to modernize Medicare and shore up the financial condition of the program, which serves 39 million people who are elderly or disabled. The Medicare trust fund is expected to run out of money in 2015, assuming no changes in current law.
Many Democrats say they will include prescription drug benefits as a major plank of their party's platform next year. They say they look forward to a fight over the issue with Republicans, who are also eager to provide drug benefits but fear that the cost of such coverage could soar.
John D. Podesta, the White House chief of staff, who has taken charge of efforts to draft the President's Medicare proposal, said the drug benefit would be "universal and affordable," would have "a modest premium" and would be "better than anything you could buy today in the open market."
Medicare beneficiaries now pay a monthly premium of $45.50 for coverage that does not include drugs. Administration officials said the extra premium for drug coverage under their proposal would be far less than what many elderly people now pay for such coverage under private insurance to fill the gaps in Medicare. Drug coverage premiums under such Medigap policies often exceed $80 a month, or $1,000 a year, the White House says.
The President's plan is an alternative to the one devised by the co-chairmen of the 17-member commission, Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, and Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California. Under the Breaux-Thomas plan, the Government would offer a fixed amount of money to each beneficiary to buy a public or private health plan.
Just hours before the panel finished work in March, Mr. Clinton said its final proposal did not "provide for an adequate, affordable prescription drug benefit" and might cause excessive increases in premiums for people in the traditional Medicare program.
Confidential White House documents, outlining Mr. Clinton's proposal, assert that drug coverage can save money for Medicare, by reducing admissions to hospitals and nursing homes, and the need for home health care as well.
"A $1 increase in pharmaceutical expenditure is associated with a $3.65 reduction in hospital care expenditure," one document says. Moreover, it says, Medicare coverage of intravenous antibiotic therapy would virtually pay for itself, by reducing hospital admissions for treatment of infectious diseases.
Bruce Steinwald, an economist at the National Health Policy Forum at George Washington University, said: "In some cases, it's certainly true that a particular drug may save money on hospital care and other medical services. But it's extremely difficult to generalize. Some drugs will increase costs, and some will reduce costs."
Richard S. Foster, chief actuary of the Medicare program, is trying to estimate the cost of various options being considered by the President. White House officials said they had sent Mr. Foster many studies to support their contention that the proper use of drugs could save money elsewhere in Medicare. But one official said it was difficult to persuade Mr. Foster, because he was "very conservative" in his estimates.
Mr. Foster was not immediately available for comment tonight.
Senior Democratic members of Congress said President Clinton had not shared details of his proposal with them. "We haven't heard anything," said Representative Pete Stark of California, the ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health.
Mr. Stark said he feared that the Administration would cut a deal with Republican leaders of the House and the Senate late this year, and that the resulting bill would be "dumped on our doorstep 48 hours before we have to vote on it."
Administration officials said Mr. Clinton's plan would also include these elements:
* The Government would encourage price competition among health maintenance organizations, by requiring them to bid for the right to enroll Medicare beneficiaries. H.M.O.'s strenuously oppose this idea, because the original fee-for-service Medicare program would not be included in the competition.
* At least 15 percent of the expected Federal budget surplus would be pumped into Medicare over the next 15 years, to improve the program's financial condition and perhaps to help pay for drug benefits.
* Federal officials would have broad new authority to sign contracts with suppliers of goods and services who offer the best price to Medicare.
* Employers who now offer drug benefits to retirees would be allowed to buy drug coverage from Medicare, presumably at a lower price than they now pay.
Walter K. Moore, a vice president of Genentech Inc., a biotechnology company based in south San Francisco, said today, "We're encouraged when we hear that the President's plan won't include explicit price controls."
Pharmacy benefit managers and H.M.O.'s typically establish lists of preferred drugs, known as formularies, and recommend low-cost generic versions of brand-name drugs. Sometimes they also require doctors to get approval before prescribing certain drugs.
Mr. Moore said such restrictions were "not cause for concern" at Genentech because the company had been able to prove the value of its drugs to H.M.O.'s and pharmacy benefit managers.
For example, Mr. Moore said, Activase, a clot-dissolving drug made by Genentech, is used in the treatment of heart attack and stroke. "At $2,200 a dose," he said, "it's expensive therapy. But it can save tens of thousands of dollars in overall costs. Patients don't need to stay in the hospital as long, and they don't need as much rehabilitation."
Prescription drugs were among the benefits that would have been guaranteed to all Americans under President Clinton's ill-fated plan for universal health insurance coverage in 1993-94. Under that plan, the Government would have set payment limits for many drugs and would have required drug makers to provide discounts, in the form of rebates to the Government. Drug companies mobilized a small army of lobbyists against those proposals.
Historically, many Medicare beneficiaries have obtained coverage for prescription drugs by purchasing private insurance or by staying in health plans run by their former employers. But the White House contends that such coverage is eroding.
"Fewer employers are offering retiree health coverage, and Medigap is increasingly scarce and expensive," the White House says in a document defending its proposal.
"Only 23 percent of Medicare beneficiaries are expected to have private employer-based or Medigap insurance for drug coverage in 2000, according to the Medicare actuary -- down significantly from 1995," the White House says. Government actuaries estimate that, by 2000, only 17 percent of beneficiaries will have drug coverage from former employers, while 6 percent will have Medigap policies covering drug costs.
More than six million Medicare beneficiaries are in H.M.O.'s, and most have some type of drug coverage. But the White House says these benefits "are likely to be reduced or dropped in the future," as health plans cope with budget cuts made by Congress in 1997.
Senator Breaux's commission would have guaranteed drug coverage for low-income beneficiaries. But the White House rejects that approach. "Beneficiaries across the income spectrum lack drug coverage," says a White House document explaining the President's plan. "About 16 million beneficiaries are projected to have no drug coverage in 2000. Lack of drug coverage is not just a problem for low-income beneficiaries; 40 percent of beneficiaries without drug coverage have income above 200 percent of poverty (about $17,000 for a single person, $23,000 for a couple in 2000)."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MEDICARE (93%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (90%); AGING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACIES (78%); DRUG PRICES (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN PODESTA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



186 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Smaller Families to Bring Big Change in Mexico

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 7

 BODY:
Like many old-style Mexican matriarchs, Emma Castro Amador bore so many children that she can't keep their birthdays straight. Sometimes she even loses track of whether Oscar, her 10th, came before David, her 11th, or vice versa.
"But I never regret having so many," said Mrs. Castro, 59, who had 14 children in 25 years. 
 Mrs. Castro's offspring, however, have a different view. In a generational divide repeated in millions of Mexican families, all 14 say they are determined to limit their families to two or three children.
"Small families live better," says Gloria Munoz Castro, Mrs. Castro's eldest daughter, echoing the jingle, broadcast incessantly on television here after the Government reversed its stance in 1974, and put a brake on exploding growth. Gloria has two children and says she will have no more.
Next year, Mexico's population is projected to reach 100 million, and the contrast between Mrs. Castro's family and those of her children illustrates the extraordinary changes under way in the country's family and population patterns, which hold important consequences for the rest of North America.
Because Mexican women like the elder Mrs. Castro traditionally had so many children, the population has quintupled since 1940, and will continue to surge at about one million people a year for nearly three decades. But because of people like her daughter, many forecasters predict that slowing fertility rates will mean that the country's population will virtually stop growing by 2045.
The tremendous reduction in fertility, from 7 children per woman in 1965, to 2.5 today, slightly below worldwide rates. The drop is resulting in a significant decline in the number of dependent children supported by each worker. It may also offer Mexico what population experts call a "demographic bonus," the opportunity to generate higher savings rates and domestic investments that can raise this country's standard of living and bring rapid development if the bonus is managed shrewdly.
"The drop in fertility is a spectacular change that has meant a revolution in mental attitudes," said Dr. Rodolfo Tuiran Gutierrez, secretary general of the Government-run National Population Council. "It's opening a demographic window of opportunity for Mexico."
Around the world, fertility rates have fallen from an average of 4.95 children per woman in the 1960-1965 period to 2.96 children in the first half of the 1990's.
But fast-growing populations are like speeding locomotives that cannot brake slowly, and even though Mexican birth rates fell dramatically, the population has kept surging.
For now, unemployment will remain high, since even when the economy is robust it cannot provide jobs for the 1.3 million new workers who enter the job market each year. Many of the jobless will continue to emigrate to the United States; during the next decade, some 3.5 million Mexicans are projected to travel to the United States to work and establish residence.
When Emma Castro was born in 1940, Mexico's population was 19.6 million, little changed from what it had been in 1910, at the outset of the Mexican Revolution. She married at 15 after a one-day courtship, and bore her first son the following year. For the next 25 years she bore one child, on average, every 21 months.
Her experience was typical. In 1956, the year Mrs. Castro bore her first son, an American anthropologist, Oscar Lewis, began collecting an oral history of a poor Mexico City family, later published as "The Children of Sanchez." When Mr. Lewis first interviewed the patriarch, Jesus Sanchez, he had 4 children, but when Mexican reporters interviewed him 14 years later, Mr. Hernandez had 16 more.
Government policy encouraged rapid growth, partly for historical reasons. Mexicans believed that the 19th century seizure of Mexican territories stretching from Texas to California by the United States would have been impossible had they not been so sparsely populated.
But in the late 1960's, as Mexico's postwar economic boom began to slow, the sheer force of the population figures began to alarm experts. In 1970, Mexico's population hit 48 million, and in an influential study several prominent Mexican demographers warned that unless policies changed it would more than triple by the year 2000, to 148 million.
Faced with the challenge to national stability those projections implied, President Luis Echeverria Alvarez in 1974 reversed course, establishing a National Population Council to control population growth and a network of Government clinics to help couples plan their families.
The reversal came as women's attitudes about birth control were already changing; ignoring the Government and the Roman Catholic hierarchy, many women in the 1960's and early 1970's were buying contraceptives on the black market. As a result, the Government's new offer of family planning services began satisfying a repressed demand, and Mexican families began changing dramatically, almost overnight.
"We were determined to have just two," said Mrs. Castro's eldest daughter, Gloria, who married in 1977. "We didn't want to spend all our money just to feed and clothe children."
Several of Gloria's married siblings and in-laws have no children. Eira Hernandez Ramirez, a 39-year-old sister-in-law with no children, explained : "Food is expensive, the oil is running out, water is scarce. The future's just too bleak."
But though Mexican birth rates have plummeted, the population has continued to expand. While none of Emma Castro's 14 children have borne even a quarter as many children as she did, they have produced 23 grandchildren so far. Millions of others in their generation have formed new families, too. That is why the population surged from 66.8 million in 1980 to 81 million in 1990 and is projected to reach the 100 million mark next year.
For more than two decades, the economy has failed to keep up with the exploding population. Jean Maninat, director of the Mexico office of the International Labor Organization, said that about 1.3 million new workers join Mexico's job market each year.
"That's the population pressure," Mr. Maninat said. "And despite the Government's efforts to generate investments, never in any year has the economy created that many jobs."
In good years, the expanding economy and new investments can create 900,000 or perhaps one million new jobs, leaving about 300,000 new job-seekers unemployed. In 1995, a recession year, Mexico lost 500,000 jobs, meaning that together with the 1.3 million new job-seekers, the ranks of the the unemployed grew by a total of 1.8 million in a single year.
A vast army of Mexicans are in the informal sector, the platoons of windshield washers who converge on cars at street corners and battalions of chewing-gum vendors who clog downtown sidewalks.
Still others have emigrated to the United States. During the 1960's, only about 27,000 workers left Mexico each year to establish permanent residence in America, according to Mexican Government figures. In the three decades since, the flow has multiplied by 10; it is currently about 277,000 a year, according to the binational study.
For the next 10 years or so, population growth is expected to continue to generate mass emigration and millions of new unemployed. But as the effects of the dropoff in fertility rates continue to make themselves felt, the number of people who join the job market each year is projected to fall to about 650,000 in 2010, Government demographers estimate.
If the economy continues to grow, then the number of Mexicans who emigrate to the United States each year, legally and illegally, could begin to decline, according a 1977 Binational Study on Migration. Some demographers believe, however, that because wages in the United States are often 10 times the pay for the same work in Mexico, Mexicans will continue to emigrate even when jobs are available here.
The slowing growth is bringing Mexico good news of another kind. In 1970, for every 100 Mexican workers there were 100 dependents, mostly children and a few retired people. As the children have grown up and entered the work force, this "dependency ratio" has declined, to about 60 dependents for each 100 workers. By the year 2020, the burden of nonworking dependents should decline still further, to about 40 per 100 workers.
"There's a moment in the evolution of populations when they have the absolute best structure for development, and that's the structure Mexico is developing right now," said Eduardo Arriaga, an Argentine demographer who is a lecturer at Georgetown University.
This demographic bonus gives Mexico the opportunity to increase domestic savings and with sensible economic management, could result in higher per capita economic growth.
The bonus phase of Mexico's demographic transition is expected to last for 30 years. By then, the population will be, on average, far older than it is today, and millions of Mexicans will need retirement care.
The costs of caring for the elderly will be higher, because currently most retired Mexicans live with their children. But the characteristically large Mexican family is shrinking, increasing numbers of Mexicans live alone, and in the future the elderly may not be able to count on home care provided by their children.
"The Mexican family is being transformed in crucial ways," said Carlos Welti, a demographer at the National Autonomous University. "Throughout our history, an important social safety network has been the extended family, uncles, cousins. In the future, fewer will have these relationships."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 14 children of Emma Castro Amador, 59, of Mexico City, want fewer offspring, a sign of shift with major implications for Mexico. (Keith Dannemiller for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Emma Castro Amador, 59, of Mexico City, says she has no regrets about bearing 14 children in 25 years. Mrs. Castro, seated, was photographed with 5 of her children, 4 of their spouses and 13 of her grandchildren. (Keith Dannemiller for The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 
Graphs: "HEADCOUNT: Smaller Families, Little Elbow Room"
While women in Mexico are giving birth to far fewer children than in the past . . .
 
Graph plots average number of children born per woman in Mexico and the United States, from 1950 through 1995.
 
 . . . the population is still growing and is projected to reach more than 112 million in 2010.
 
Graph plots the population of Mexico, from 1950 through a projected 2010.
 
(Sources: U.N. Population Division; Mexico's Population Council; Mexico's Institute of Statistics)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

COMPANY: POPULATION COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); POPULATION COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION COUNCIL (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); POPULATION COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHILDREN (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); FERTILITY RATES (88%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); 

PERSON: CARLOS GUTIERREZ (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



187 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing Increased in April

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7

 BODY:
Borrowing by consumers increased in April, led by auto loans and credit card debt, Federal Reserve figures showed today.
Borrowing through credit cards, auto loans and other personal loans rose by $3.7 billion, to $1.335 trillion, after rising a revised $5.1 billion during March. 
 Previously, the Fed estimated March borrowing increased $1.6 billion. Before today's report, analysts had expected an increase of $5 billion for April.
The pace of consumer credit was rising at a 3.4 percent annual rate during April. That was down from the 4.6 percent pace of borrowing in March.
"With spending outpacing income growth, households are increasingly turning to credit to finance their purchases," Steve Wood, an economist at Banc of America Securities in San Francisco, said before the report was released.
Economists watch the Fed's report to help them gauge consumer demand. However, the Fed's report is somewhat incomplete because more people are borrowing against their homes through lower-interest home equity loans, and the Fed's statistics do not track loans secured by real estate.
Revolving loans, which include credit cards, increased $3.2 billion in April -- the largest increase since January -- after falling $400 million in March. Auto loans rose $2.2 billion after increasing $5.4 billion. Other types of installment loans decreased $1.7 billion after rising $100 million. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CONSUMER LENDING (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); STATISTICS (78%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



188 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry Grows As Rolls Fall For Medicaid

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 7

 BODY:
Concerned over the steep declines of the Medicaid rolls in New York, Federal officials are studying whether local governments across the state are improperly preventing the poor from signing up for health benefits under the program.
The Federal Government has already been examining stringent new welfare policies in New York City that a Federal judge and advocates for the poor say have prevented many poor people from getting prompt access to Medicaid coverage. 
 But now, Federal officials are trying to find out if similar problems exist outside the city and what, if anything, Albany is doing to insure that localities are not erecting improper hurdles to applications for coverage.
The inquiry was outlined in a letter that Sue Kelly, a regional administrator for the Federal Health Care Financing Administration, sent to state health officials last month expressing concerns about New York. In the letter, Ms. Kelly said that it "appears that barriers exist in the application process" for Medicaid both inside and outside New York City. The letter specifically cites long delays in approving the Medicaid applications of more than 1,000 people in Nassau County. Ms. Kelly noted that the agency would, as a result, conduct a "program review" of the state Medicaid program.
New York State officials said that they welcomed the inquiry, and that they would provide documents outlining the thoroughness of their oversight. Federal and state officials are scheduled to meet on the matter later this month. "We look forward to that meeting so that we can show H.C.F.A. the significant monitoring effort that the department has undertaken in the Medicaid program," said John Signor, a spokesman for the state's Department of Health.
The concerns of Federal officials come at a time when statistics show that many localities in New York State -- from Nassau and Suffolk Counties to the Syracuse and Binghamton areas -- have reduced their Medicaid rolls far more than even New York City.
Elisabeth Ryden Benjamin, a lawyer for the Legal Aid Society who represents Medicaid recipients, called the Federal inquiry a significant development. "This is an extremely serious step," she said. "The state needs to walk very carefully because what is happening in the localities is a field full of land mines."
But some state and local administrators of the Medicaid program reject such criticism, attributing the decline to a robust economy that has provided more jobs with private health benefits to poor people.
The fate of Medicaid recipients has drawn increasing attention in New York and across the nation since 1996, when the Federal Government passed a law overhauling its welfare program. That law gave states sweeping new powers to impose a host of restrictions on their poverty programs. But that law also specified that poor people would be able to keep their Medicaid coverage even if they lost their eligibility for welfare benefits. That provision was included, in part, to encourage welfare recipients to take low-wage jobs even when employers offered them no health care benefits.
But in most states, eligibility for welfare benefits and for Medicaid have been traditionally linked, and it has taken time for states to implement procedures formally severing the two programs. As a result, leaving welfare has often meant losing Medicaid as well. Beyond that, there is a perception among many needy families that they do not qualify for Medicaid if they are deemed ineligible for welfare benefits, according to advocates for the poor.
The issue has been of particular interest in New York State, where the Medicaid rolls have decreased by 276,973, or 9 percent, since President Clinton signed the law overhauling welfare in August 1996. That decline has come as local governments, including the Giuliani administration, aggressively implemented a host of new policies challenging people's eligibility for welfare benefits.
The enrollment decline among New York's Medicaid population, now at about 2.7 million, has drawn harsh rebukes from advocates for the poor who say that many local governments have made it difficult to get Medicaid. In January, for example, a Federal district judge ruled that New York City had improperly denied applications for Medicaid from poor people because they had not complied with the city's requirement that they work in exchange for welfare benefits. The city has said it plans to improve its procedures.
But the steep enrollment decline is not limited to New York City, where the Medicaid rolls have dropped by 8.3 percent since the Federal welfare law was passed in 1996. In that same period, the caseloads have dropped by 15.5 percent in Suffolk County, 10.8 percent in Nassau County, 11.5 percent in the Syracuse area and 13.9 percent in the Binghamton area, according to state statistics.
New York is one of the few states in the nation that does not directly administer its poverty programs but rather turns that job over to New York City and the 57 county governments around the state. But the state still has the main responsibility for insuring that local governments are complying with state and Federal statutes governing these programs.
New York State officials have themselves expressed concern that Federal rules intended to preserve Medicaid for people deemed ineligible for welfare have not always been followed. In fact, last January, state health investigators visited eight welfare offices in New York City and found that four had failed to provide Medicaid applications promptly.
But that apparently has not eased the concerns of Federal officials who have the authority to impose financial penalties on the state if it is not in compliance with Federal rules.
In the letter sent to state health officials last month, the Federal Government said it had not received documentation from the state showing what, if anything, had been done to correct the problem in New York City. The letter also cited published reports from Nassau County claiming that as of January, 1,129 Medicaid applications had been pending for more than a month with the wait averaging 78 days, even though Federal law requires Medicaid applications to be processed within 45 days in most cases. "If this is indeed the case in Nassau County, it would appear to violate Federal standards," the letter says.
As part of their inquiry, Federal officials will require the state to provide documentation of "all monitoring activities" it has conducted of local government policies, as well as the minutes of any meetings that state health officials have conducted with local administrators of the program, according to the letter. The inquiry will also likely include visits by Federal officials to local welfare offices, as well as a review of Medicaid applications to determine whether they have been handled properly, according to a Federal official who asked to remain anonymous.
"The Federal Government is clearly frustrated with New York's lack of oversight of its local districts," said Anne Erickson, the legislative coordinator for the Upstate Law Project, an advocacy group for the poor that monitors poverty programs in upstate New York. "What the Federal Government is saying is that the local districts need to comply with the law." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MEDICAID (94%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGAL AID (78%); LAWYERS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); JUDGES (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

PERSON: SUE KELLY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999



189 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 5; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
From Sibelius's Civility to Contemporary Stress, at a Gathering of Finns

BYLINE: By BERNARD HOLLAND 

DATELINE: OJAI, Calif., June 7

 BODY:
Far-flung, numerous and sublimely dissimilar, Americans have a hard time understanding the national impulse of smaller countries. We are happily different among ourselves. For Finland and places like it, being one identifiable thing is a means of survival.
So if this year's Ojai Festival, dominated if not overwhelmed by Finnish music, seemed brazen in its patriotic self-congratulation, and if the Finnish musicians gathered here resembled more than a little a college reunion, remember that a nation's culture, adamantly promoted, can exert a force equal to its gross national product. It unites and solidifies. 
 Occupied over the centuries alternately by Swedes and Russians, Finns have survived by means of a distinctive language (like Hungarian heard through a closed door, as a friend from Budapest described it) and a stubborn folk culture. Finnish classical music came late and slowly, awakened by Sibelius and now in a flurry of productivity.
Running at the head of Ojai's talented and agreeable Rat Pack was Esa-Pekka Salonen, music director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic and host here for a collection of old friends: Olli Mustonen, Anssi Karttunen, Magnus Lindberg and a new-music group called the Toimii Ensemble. Mr. Salonen's local orchestra added significant support over a three-day weekend of six events. Denyce Graves sang a Finn-less recital on Sunday morning. Two weekday chamber music concerts preceded.
The visiting Finns, denizens of a more dour and Spartan natural world, looked a little pale in this botanical Garden of Eden just north of Los Angeles. But they seemed to be enjoying themselves among the live oak and sycamore, the towering eucalyptus and hydrangeas.
Mr. Salonen used the festival to promote not only his country and schoolmates but himself. Salonen compositions popped up all weekend: on Friday, "Giro," a chamber piece, and "Five Images After Sappho," a song cycle; and on Saturday, "Yta II" for solo piano, a brittle little item filled with scurrying figuration and played here by Gloria Cheng. Laura Claycomb, standing in bravely for the ailing Dawn Upshaw, sang the songs surely, and with only a trace of apprehension.
Mr. Salonen has been talking of conducting less and composing more. I hope he gives the idea more thought. As a music director he is invaluable: intrepid, brave, thoughtful, highly skilled. He gives Los Angeles a spirit of adventure music sorely needs.
If Mr. Salonen's pieces here were representative, they show an acute observer of how other people have written music in the 20th century. The leisurely chords and cascading filigree of "Giro" and the resuscitations of early-in-the-century France for the "Sappho" songs are smoothly handled, though in the latter the sequential patterns sound pretty labored. Everywhere one heard lessons from Ravel and Boulez well learned, but one looked in vain for a center to all this music, an identifiable personality, something that would certify, "I am Esa-Pekka Salonen, composer."
Mr. Lindberg possesses such a personality. His new Cello Concerto on Friday and the earlier "Kraft" on Sunday afternoon were not always likable, but they are difficult to ignore. The Cello Concerto is the Romantic spirit turned mean. If the 19th century more or less invented the display piece, Mr. Lindberg's catalogue of glissando whoops, frantic runs, plucks and whacks -- negotiated courageously by Mr. Karttunen -- stretch virtuosity to excruciating lengths. Comparing Mr. Lindberg's concerto to the Sibelius First Symphony later in the evening showed not only how music but the whole world has changed in 100 years: civilized melancholy now transformed into teeth-grinding struggle.
"Kraft" surrounded the audience with an army of traditional instruments and found objects, and banged away with chaotic vigor. This is less ensemble music than a community of sounds: like Messiaen's well-populated forest from which bird song emerges but now relocated to Main Street at rush hour. If John Adams's Chamber Symphony on Saturday was joyously raucous, "Kraft" seemed surly in contrast.
Two more Finns to talk about were Kaija Saariaho, composer of "Amers" on Saturday night (again with the busy Mr. Karttunen), and Mr. Mustonen, a pianist who earlier in the day had interwoven Bach and Shostakovich Preludes and Fugues. "Amers" behaved like a single, slowly drifting chord progression altered gradually by instrumental timbre and a repertory of glissandos, ripples and shudders. Sustaining a piece on color and decoration alone is not easy, and here it was not always accomplished.
Mr. Mustonen's mercurial approach -- with its stop-and-start impulsiveness and broad dynamic range -- made the two composers sound happily alike. The abandonment of traditional sobriety offended some, but it is not true that the siren heard approaching Libbey Bowl after intermission was an ambulance come to rescue Bach from Mr. Mustonen's injurious clutches.
There is only one correct style: the one that allows what is written to be heard and offers a strong point of view. Both elements were present here. Less authentic was Mr. Mustonen's repertory of fluttering fingers, grimaces and swooning exits from the stage.
When such foolishness bleeds the listener's attention from the music, harmless narcissism turns unhealthy. Affecting white tie and tails at 2 in the afternoon in informal surroundings may have been a comment on human artifice next to nature, but its silliness was distracting. Mr. Mustonen has talent, but there are times when children should be heard, not seen.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); HUNGARY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FINLAND; UNITED STATES (91%); HUNGARY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; OJAI MUSIC FESTIVAL; REVIEWS MUSIC (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (72%); FOLKLORE (70%); 

PERSON: HOLLAND, BERNARD; SALONEN, ESA-PEKKA ESA-PEKKA SALONEN (91%); MAGNUS LINDBERG (69%); ANSSI KARTTUNEN (62%); OLLI MUSTONEN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



190 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
EURO RALLIES. The euro rose against the dollar after a larger-than-expected increase in growth in Germany suggested that the nation's economy might be rebounding. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0458, up from $1.0286.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the dollar to the euro, since January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



191 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Estimate Is A Bit Lower

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8

 BODY:
Worker productivity was slightly less vigorous in the first quarter than previously thought as pay rates picked up, the Labor Department said today.
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said total inventories rose in April while sales by wholesalers rose to a record, indicating consumer spending is still strong. 
 Productivity, the output for every hour of work, climbed 3.5 percent in the first three months of 1999 instead of the 4 percent reported by the department a month ago. Though it was a slowdown from the fourth quarter's 4.3 percent gain, it still represented strong performance as the economy was entering its ninth year of expansion.
The revised productivity estimate was in line with economists' expectations. The Government earlier scaled back its initial estimates of total first-quarter economic growth, so the reduction in productivity was expected.
Unit labor costs, the amount of compensation for every unit of output, were revised to a rise of seven-tenths of a percent from three-tenths of a percent. That came after a four-tenths of a percent drop in fourth-quarter labor costs.
The revised pickup in first-quarter labor costs was still the smallest gain for any quarter since a three-tenths of a percent rise in the third quarter of 1997.
The Commerce Department report showed that inventories rose two-tenths of a percent in April, to a seasonally adjusted $288.96 billion after a rise of two-tenths of 1 percent in March. The March data were revised down from an initially reported three-tenths of a percent.
Total wholesale sales edged up to a seasonally adjusted record $221.87 billion, from $221.80 billion in March, which was the previous record.
The inventory-to-sales ratio, which measures how long it would take to deplete stocks at the current sales pace, remained steady at 1.3 months worth.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "U.S. Productivity" tracks index of output per hour of all people in nonfarm businesses, seasonally adjusted, from the fourth quarter of 1994 through the first quarter of 1999. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; LABOR; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); PRODUCTIVITY (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (89%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



192 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDX;
Rising Long-Term Interest Rates Dampen Stocks

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Long-term interest rates hit 6 percent for the first time in more than a year yesterday after two Federal Reserve officials made comments that suggested the central bank would raise interest rates at the end of the month.
Higher interest rates and concern about the outlook for computer companies helped send stocks lower in what promises to be continued volatility ahead of the Fed policy meeting. After rising 109.54 points Monday, the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 143.74 points, or 1.32 percent, yesterday to 10,765.64. Volume was light as investors anticipated coming Government reports. 
 "The interest rate bell rings louder and stock knees get weaker," said Thomas M. Galvin, chief investment officer at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
He said he thought that interest rates would move higher and stocks lower between now and the Fed meeting. But he said good second-quarter earnings reports and getting by the Fed rate increase would help stocks rally in July.
Until then investors will have to contend with a Commerce Department retail sales report Friday that is expected to be strong and heighten expectations of a Fed rate increase. Then next week comes the Consumer Price Index for May. If it is even moderately strong, a rate increase will seem guaranteed.
In trading yesterday, the yield on the 30-year bond just slipped back under 6 percent at the end of the day, finishing at 5.99 percent, up from 5.96 percent Monday. Six percent is an important psychological barrier and going through it ought to make investors worry more in the near term about the stock market.
Computer stocks, including I.B.M., Hewlett-Packard, Intel, Cisco Systems and Dell Computer, led the market lower.
A report from Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette said that sales and profits of personal computer makers and software companies would be hurt at the end of the year as spending on information technology was reduced as the Year 2000 -- and the possible computer problems associated with it -- approached. Many companies appear ready to delay spending not associated with solving Year 2000 problems because they do not want to start new programs that might complicate the transition to the new year.
The technology-laden Nasdaq index dropped 49.65 points, or about 2 percent, to 2,474.56, while the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks fell 17.19 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,317.33.
Investors have been expecting a rate increase since last month, when it was reported that the April Consumer Price Index jumped seven-tenths of a percent and the Fed then announced that it was leaning toward raising interest rates to slow growth and curb any inflationary spurt.
But the timing of such a rate increase was not clear. Since then a series of economic reports, including the May employment report that was released Friday, have shown that the economy is still strong and that wage pressures may be growing. And that has pushed investors to betting that the Fed will act when its meets on June 29 and 30.
The comments by William Poole, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, and J. Alfred Broaddus Jr., the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, were seen as further confirmation of this view.
At a conference at the Federal Reserve Bank in Boston, Mr. Poole said that he "would share the view" that the odds now favor higher inflation, according to Bloomberg News. According to Reuters, Mr. Poole also said that it was best that Fed policy changes "do not take the market by surprise."
Mr. Broaddus said in Amelia Island, Fla., according to Bloomberg, that the jump in the April Consumer Price Index was "the most troubling" in some time.
Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said, "There seems to be more hawkish talk coming out of Fed officials and the market is becoming more convinced that the Fed will raise interest rates when it meets at the end of June."
Analysts are now predicting a quarter-of-a-percentage-point increase in the Fed's interest rate target, which is the interest charged on overnight loans between banks. The target, known as the Federal Funds rate, is now 4.75 percent. But based on one barometer of market sentiment -- the difference between the Fed funds target and the yield on the two-year Treasury note -- some investors are expecting that the Fed will push its target up another quarter of a percentage point later in the year.
Some money managers think that if interest rates push a little higher it will be time to buy bonds again because they expect the Fed to succeed in slowing economic growth and curbing inflation, a fact that would push interest rates lower.
But Steve Holzman, the managing partner of Cypress Funds L.L.C., a hedge fund in Los Angeles, is being more cautious. He said he wanted to see data that confirmed the slowdown of the economy before jumping back in. "I would rather be in at 5.65 percent," he said, referring to the yield on the 30-year bond, "based on the fact that you saw some slowdown, than at 5.95" without that confirmation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Fears of Inflation"
Concerns that the Federal Reserve will soon raise interest rates has driven the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond to its highest level in more than a year. Graph tracks its percentage rate, since April 1998. (pg. C10)
 
"Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data)(pg. C10)
 
Another graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since June 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); INTEL CORP (54%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INTEREST RATES (95%); STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); RETAIL SALES (67%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (62%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (60%); EXECUTIVES (54%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN WILLIAM POOLE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



193 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
National Company Tries Out New York

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
By many measures, the Trammell Crow Company is among the largest real estate-services companies in the country. But it has been conspicuously absent from New York, the nation's largest market.
That changed quietly in February, when the company opened a Manhattan office at 780 Third Avenue at 48th Street, initially to find locations in the New York metropolitan area for the national retail companies, including Borders Books, General Cinema and the Body Shop, that Trammel Crow represents. Although the current focus remains on retail, the company's chief executive, George Lippe, said he expected the office to develop into a full-service operation over the next few years. 
 "We didn't want to open with a bang," he said. "But my intent is that we will develop into a full-service office over the next three to five years." He said the intense level of competition in New York was the reason that the company had been reluctant to hang out its shingle here. But, he said, retailers who want nationwide coverage pushed the company to establish a presence.
"This was a customer-driven decision," said Michael Hirschfeld, who was hired from Equis of New York to run the Trammell Crow office here. "A lot of our customers said, 'We have requirements in New York,' so we had to be here."
The Trammell Crow Company that is now entering the New York market is vastly different from the swashbuckling band of deal makers that was once the nation's largest developer, the owner of a $15 billion empire of property.
The 1980's real estate recession brought about the collapse of the highly leveraged empire, with most of the property going to the Crow family. In 1991, the company gave up development and ownership to concentrate exclusively on offering services to help complete real estate transactions. It still does some development but only for other people, and it has no equity stake in the projects.
But it is a substantial company, with 478 million square feet of office, retail and industrial property under management. Revenues in 1998 were $517 million, up from $313 million a year earlier. The company has 5,600 people in 160 offices in the United States and Canada. Trammell Crow is publicly traded, after an initial public offering in December 1997.
Mr. Lippe said the company decided to keep its founder's name despite the financial difficulties of the early 1990's because of the good relationships developed with tenants of the buildings it formerly owned. "We had a lot of tenants and they liked us," he said. "Our brand was good with the corporate community, so we decided to keep it, even if it was difficult with lenders."
Focusing on services makes the company less subject to the notorious boom-and-bust nature of the real estate industry. When economic times are difficult and companies are looking to pare costs, one way is to turn real estate operations over to a third-party manager, a process known as outsourcing.
"The second largest cost for most corporations, after personnel, is occupancy," Mr. Lippe said. "So outsourcing actually accelerates during recessions." In choosing outsourcing, corporations are hoping that an outside company whose only business is real estate can manage those operations more efficiently than an in-house real estate department of a company whose core business is something else.
Because New York remains a corporate headquarters, the company's outsourcing services division is the next one likely to set up shop here, Mr. Lippe said. He said the company represents 72 of the largest industrial companies in the country, "and most of them have some presence in New York."
In all, Trammel Crow is managing 16,600 properties with 135 million square feet of space for corporate clients whose business is not based on real estate.
Trammell Crow also offers real estate brokerage services -- Mr. Lippe admits that New York is going to be tough to crack because of existing relationships among local brokers, landlords and tenants -- and development and investment services for companies building their own buildings and for investors in office, industrial and retail projects.
Mr. Hirschfeld said that explaining the Manhattan market to retailers who have built up their businesses in suburban locations is a big part of his job because of the population density and the high rents charged. "The other boroughs are more analogous to what they are accustomed to in other parts of the country, but Manhattan is a completely different world," he said.
One of Mr. Hirschfeld's important moves so far was hiring a team of seven brokers from the old Jones Lang Wootton firm that recently merged with LaSalle Partners to form Jones Lang LaSalle. "We got the entire retail team from Jones Lang," he said.
Mr. Lippe said Trammell Crow had grown through acquisition recently. "We have added 6 or 7 companies in the last 12 months which account for about $120 million of our approximately $600 million in revenues," he said. But he said they were bought to add specialty expertise to an already existing national network of offices, rather than as an effort to build a national company.
"Having the network helps integrate new companies into the organization," he said. "You already have the infrastructure."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Hirschfeld, who was hired from Equis of New York to run Trammell Crow's new Manhattan office on Third Avenue at 48th Street. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BGP (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (95%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (95%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (95%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (95%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (95%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (57%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TRAMMELL CROW CO TRAMMELL CROW CO (95%); BORDERS GROUP INC (57%); NEW YORK (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRAMMELL CROW CO NEW YORK (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); RETAILERS (76%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (60%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN; LIPPE, GEORGE; HIRSCHFELD, MICHAEL GEORGE LIPPE (85%); MICHAEL HIRSCHFELD (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



194 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Auto Negotiations Are Likely to Aim fora Longer Pact

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 8

 BODY:
With General Motors, Ford Motor and DaimlerChrysler scheduled to begin talks next week with the United Automobile Workers, it appears increasingly likely that negotiators will seek a national labor contract lasting four or more years, the longest such deal since the 1950's, auto executives and union officials say.
Chastened by last summer's 54-day strike against G.M. in Flint, Mich., and enjoying the soaring profits and bountiful overtime pay produced by record auto sales, management and workers appear eager to avoid another showdown this year. Serious differences could still produce a strike, but industry and union leaders alike are now using the tamest rhetoric in many years. 
 Nearly two decades of declining inflation rates have tempered union fears that workers' pay would be ravaged by rising prices during a long contract. For their part, the auto makers would welcome the ability to predict long-term costs. The current contract expires on Sept. 14.
By departing from the traditional three-year contract, the U.A.W. would also be able to avoid having the next round of auto labor talks in the summer of 2002, when the union could be locked in a power struggle. Stephen P. Yokich, the union's longtime president, must retire when his current, four-year term ends in June 2002 because he will become 65 next year. The union's rules require that candidates for the presidency, an elected position, be younger than 65, and Mr. Yokich has no heir apparent.
A longer contract would not assure labor peace in the auto industry, however. Unlike most unions, the U.A.W. won from the auto makers long ago the right to hold factory-level strikes for health and safety reasons any time, even while a contract is in force. Last year's strike in Flint involved such a walkout.
Key issues in talks to replace the current contract, which expires on Sept. 14, are certain to include job security, particularly for workers at auto parts subsidiaries that are being spun off, as well as modest changes to the auto makers' health care plans and other employee benefits, executives and union officials said in interviews and public appearances the last month.
The U.A.W. has traditionally negotiated a contract with one auto company first, and then demanded that the other two sign virtually identical pacts. The company that negotiates the first pact has an advantage, in that it can tailor an agreement to its own needs while driving up its rivals' costs. Ford and G.M. seem to have a better chance of being chosen by the union to negotiate the first agreement than does DaimlerChrysler, but no decision has been made yet, a person close to the union said.
G.M. executives in particular have softened their criticisms of the union and called for reconciliation, in the hope of avoiding another strike.
"We are working hard with all our unions to nurture a more open relationship," said John F. Smith Jr., G.M.'s chairman and chief executive, at the company's annual meeting on Monday in Wilmington, Del. "We want to build on common strengths, improve our cost competitiveness and work through our differences without costly work stoppages."
But G.M. has in the past shown a peculiar knack for offending the U.A.W., sometimes unintentionally. The auto maker announced today, six days before the contract negotiations formally open next Monday, that it would spend $1.8 billion to buy a commercial lending business from the Bank of New York.
Although union leaders had no immediate reaction today, they have criticized diversification moves by the auto maker, calling on the companies to invest more money in new equipment and factories instead.
All three auto makers' current, three-year national contracts with the U.A.W. expire at midnight on Sept. 14. Since the Eisenhower Administration, national auto labor contracts have lasted for three years, and the triennial negotiations have been closely followed as a barometer of wage pressures in the American economy. While the auto makers are no longer the nation's largest private employers -- Wal-Mart overtook G.M. two years ago -- the wages and benefits set in their contracts still strongly influence the rest of the manufacturing sector, which accounts for about a fifth of the nation's economic output.
Inflation and obscure accounting rules discouraged the union and the companies alike from pursuing longer agreements. Inflation caused by the Korean War ravaged the earnings power of auto workers during a five-year pact in the 1950's and prompted union leaders then to vow that future deals would not exceed three years, a decision followed until now.
Recent contracts have only partly protected workers against inflation, guaranteeing that in addition to wage increases workers will receive an extra 1 percent raise for every 2.6 percentage points of inflation. But the decline in the inflation rate has reduced union worries on this score.
Accounting rules also require the companies to charge certain pension concessions against their profits in the first year of an agreement, and the cost of these concessions rises with longer agreements. But with all three auto makers posting record or near-record profits, they are in unusually strong financial condition to take such a charge.
Mr. Yokich mentioned the possibility of a longer contract at a news conference last month. "With all the money they've got, they might be able to put enough money on that table that we have to take a 4-year or 5-year or 6-year or 10-year" contract, he said, speaking of the auto makers.
While auto executives dismiss the idea of a 10-year contract, which would limit their options through at least two generations of new cars, they have been receptive to the possibility of a 4- to six-year contract.
The U.A.W. has been quarreling with DaimlerChrysler over how much help the auto maker should give the union in organizing a Mercedes factory in Alabama and a DaimlerChrysler heavy truck factory in North Carolina. With union leaders also nervous about a showdown with German executives they barely know, the union is expected to negotiate the first contract with G.M. or, perhaps more likely, Ford.
If Ford goes first, it would probably try to work out the terms of an eventual spinoff of Visteon Automotive Systems, its auto parts unit. Such a settlement could have major implications for G.M. In previous spinoffs of smaller subsidiaries by Ford and G.M, contracts guaranteed that workers in the subsidiary could retire within the next few years with full pensions and health benefits from the auto maker, not the subsidiary.
Last month, G.M. spun off its 200,000-employee auto parts unit, Delphi Automotive Systems. A big question now is whether Ford will agree to accept huge numbers of workers back from Visteon if it is ever spun off. While Ford could use those workers in its expanding sport utility vehicle factories, G.M. has too many workers already and does not need more from Delphi. But if Ford signs a pattern-setting contract first, the U.A.W. may force G.M. to accept the same terms or face another costly strike. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLINT, MI, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; STRIKES AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OVERTIME (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); SALES MANAGEMENT (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



195 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Calm Election Spurs a Rally In Indonesia

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, June 8

 BODY:
A day after Indonesia held its first democratic elections in four decades, the joyful clamor of voters gave way to a resounding rumble of approval from the financial markets.
Stocks in Jakarta surged 12.2 percent today, closing at their highest level since Indonesia went into an economic tailspin in August 1997. Indonesia's currency, the rupiah, strengthened to a rate of 7,700 to the dollar, extending a rally that began last week. 
 The good feelings were infectious, as stock markets in neighboring Malaysia and Singapore also recorded powerful gains. Everywhere in the region, investors seemed to view Indonesia's harmonious exercise in democracy as a milestone in Asia's recovery from economic calamity.
Given the dire predictions of election-related riots and bloodshed, such euphoria is understandable. But many analysts here said that it would be transitory. Indonesia faces prolonged political maneuvering that may leave people as baffled as ever about this sprawling country.
Nor does an election -- however peaceful -- heal Indonesia's ills, which range from shuttered banks and debt-plagued companies to jaded foreign investors who still view the country as an economic leper.
"The elections are one milestone," said Mari Pangestu, an economist at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Jakarta. "But there are two or three other milestones to come. Who will lead the coalition? Who will be the next president? Who will get the economics portfolio?"
Based on early returns, the Indonesian Democratic Party for Struggle seemed likely to win the largest number of votes. But even if it wins this parliamentary election, analysts said it would have to assemble a coalition to wrest control of the Government from the ruling Golkar party and its leader, President B. J. Habibie, the protege of his predecessor, Indonesia's longtime leader, Suharto.
Still, as investors and economists weighed the implications of Monday's vote, their attention swung to the leader of the Democratic Party for Struggle, Megawati Sukarnoputri, and her economic advisers.
Mrs. Megawati, 52, said little about the economy during the campaign. The soft-spoken daughter of Indonesia's founding President, Sukarno, Mrs. Megawati ran a heavily symbolic campaign, drawing on an emotional public yearning for a return to the Indonesia of her father.
Never mind that under Sukarno, Indonesia fell into its deepest economic crisis until the current one -- with crushing government debt, soaring inflation, eroding exports and rampant smuggling. In a speech in 1964, Sukarno told the United States to "go to hell with your aid."
Despite her credentials as a nationalist, Mrs. Megawati is not about to follow her father's lead in spurning foreign money. Her party has embraced Indonesia's agreement with the International Monetary Fund, which lays out changes required for it to keep receiving the fund's money.
John Bresnan, an expert on Indonesia at the East Asian Institute at Columbia University, said he was surprised that Mrs. Megawati and other opposition figures had not tried to turn the I.M.F.'s role into a campaign issue.
"I think they have some sense of the severity of the situation," Mr. Bresnan said. "Some of the opposition notables are now close to being in a position of responsibility, and that is a sobering prospect."
Hours after the polls closed on Monday, the I.M.F. approved a $450 million loan to Indonesia, the latest installment in its $43 billion rescue package. Anoop Singh, the deputy director of the I.M.F.'s Asia and Pacific division, said today that he viewed the election as an "opportunity to intensify reform efforts."
In addition to heeding the I.M.F., advisers to Mrs. Megawati say they are committed to a free-market strategy that welcomes foreign investment. But that does not mean Mrs. Megawati's aides do not harbor provocative ideas.
Kwik Kian Gie, an economist who is perhaps Mrs. Megawati's most influential adviser, recently proposed fixing Indonesia's currency at an exchange rate of 5,000 rupiah to the United States dollar. Without a stable rupiah at that level, he says, Indonesia's economy will continue to stagnate because the rupiah's weakness and unpredictability have hurt the purchasing power of consumers.
"This proposal is certainly not for the current Government, which evidently cannot create stability, but for the Government resulting from the coming general election," Mr. Kwik wrote in The Jakarta Post.
Because Mr. Kwik is mentioned as a future Finance Minister, his ruminations about the rupiah have alarmed some business leaders here. Indonesia struggled to maintain a fixed exchange rate early in the Asian crisis -- abandoning the effort after it squandered foreign reserves by spending enormous sums of dollars to buy rupiah. Beyond the currency issue, some executives here said the Democratic Party for Struggle has a more active bent than the other major parties.
"We have some concern that there is a central-planning bias and an unwillingness to let the market take over," said James W. Castle, a consultant and member of the American Chamber of Commerce here. "We've tried to tell them that the regulations of the Suharto Government were fairly good. The problem was corruption."
Before the next Government adopts any innovative policies, investors said it must tackle Indonesia's pervasive cronyism and a legal system that leaves foreign banks and other creditors queasy.
"I just don't see how any bank in Frankfurt or New York would get approval to make new loans to Indonesia," said Bill Kaye, senior managing director of the Pacific Group, a Hong Kong asset management firm.
Mr. Kaye said investors would hesitate to pour money back into the country until they saw evidence that bankruptcy courts here were treating creditors consistently. But doing that will involve challenging some of the most politically connected business tycoons in Indonesia.
There is no question that a resurgent stock market and a strengthening currency will help Indonesia solve its problems. As asset values rise, it is easier to overhaul debt-laden conglomerates. And that, in turn, eases the cost of bailing out Indonesia's banking system, now estimated at more than $40 billion.
Despite the problems facing Indonesia, some experts said they did not want to diminish the psychological lift that the economy would enjoy simply because the elections were so remarkably peaceful.
"If you can make people feel safe, a lot of Indonesian money that went abroad will come back," said Rizal Ramli, a prominent economist. "People want to be given a reason to come back to this country."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The leader of the party that appears to have received the most votes in Monday's election in Indonesia, Megawati Sukarnoputri, talked from behind a fan last week with a top adviser, Kwik Kian Gie. (Associated Press)(pg. C4)
 
Graph: "Demacracy Boon"
Indonesia's apparently fraud-free and orderly elections have been a big encouragement to the country's stock market and its currency. Graph tracns the Jakarta composite index and rupiah to the dollar, since February. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Services)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (95%); MALAYSIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (91%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; MALAYSIA; SINGAPORE; INDONESIA (95%); MALAYSIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (91%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); SMUGGLING (71%); BONDS (71%); RIOTS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); 

PERSON: MEGAWATI SUKARNOPUTRI; LANDLER, MARK

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



196 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
It Was a Whole New Game, and the Stakes Were High

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS and JUDY BATTISTA 

 BODY:
The players union of the Women's National Basketball Association overwhelmingly ratified a labor contract last month, the first in women's professional team sports in the United States. The players won increased salaries, year-round health coverage, including maternity leave, a matching 401(k) program and limited job security for veterans.
But many of the W.N.B.A. players agree that the process of insuring labor peace and jobs for the next four years was a lot rougher than they expected. 
 Nearly three months of bargaining revealed an inexperienced union at odds with itself, its leadership and management, insecure in the knowledge that it stood to lose as much as it might gain.
"As women basketball players, we weren't really experienced in dealing with things like the union, the league and collective bargaining," said the Houston Comets' Cynthia Cooper, the league's two-time most valuable player.
But the union also faced an issue it could not control: 90 fellow pros were out of work because the rival American Basketball League had folded in late December. As the W.N.B.A. prepared for its third season, the pros no longer had the option of playing in another American league.
"We had no bargaining power," said Rebecca Lobo, the Liberty forward and a member of the negotiating committee. "As soon as the A.B.L. folded, we had no leverage. "We went in there and just tried to get the best thing we could get. And I think we did a good job."
The union wanted to limit the number of A.B.L. players allowed into the W.N.B.A., while the league wanted no restrictions.
"It was extremely difficult because we had to continually justify, not only to ourselves, but to our friends in the A.B.L. and the public, the general position that we took," said Coquese Washington, the Liberty forward who emerged as one of the most vocal player representatives. "As a union that organized before the A.B.L. folded, we had a constituency that had issues to be met, and job security was an issue before the A.B.L. went under."
In the end, the W.N.B.A. expansion teams in Orlando and Minnesota were allowed to have five A.B.L. players each. The other 10 W.N.B.A. teams were limited to three each, either as draftees or free agents. After this season, there will be no limit on signing A.B.L. players and in 2000 four more teams will join the league, creating an additional 44 jobs for players.
Other bumps in the negotiations were predictable once the women voted last November to align themselves with the National Basketball Players Association. By the time the women started negotiating their contract with the league, the N.B.P.A. had just ended its contentious labor dispute with the National Basketball Association, which owns and operates the W.N.B.A.
"We feared being shut down all together and alienating fans of the league," said Lisa Leslie, the star center for the Los Angeles Sparks.
Given the tangential concerns -- plus the players' labor inexperience -- their mistakes were inevitable.
"People who are new at collective bargaining always make mistakes," said Richard Hurd, professor of labor studies at Cornell University. "If you're negotiating an established contract, then you go over every word and see if you can improve it. With a first agreement, things slip by."
The union, for example, did not raise the issue of how players from the A.B.L. would be classified upon joining the league. Union leaders assumed the players would be considered veterans, which would entitle them to be paid at a higher scale. The league viewed them as rookies.
The dispute was one of a handful of issues that on April 22 led to the collapse of an agreement in principle reached between the league and the union eight days earlier. What happened next caught the union off guard: the league issued a news release accusing the union of reneging on key terms of the agreement and making new economic demands. It also postponed the April 27 draft.
When the W.N.B.A. made those announcements, the union's top three officials were out of town. Some of the players learned of the developments in news reports.
A small but vocal group of players made it clear to the negotiating committee that they weren't prepared to walk out over a few lingering contract demands. Among the issues was a league stipulation that players would not be allowed to play for the season if they had not signed a contract by May 14, the start of training camp.
"When the draft was canceled, that really caught my eye," said Nikki McCray, a guard for the Washington Mystics. "That's when everybody just got together and said, 'Look, what's at the table right now is not worth us losing our season.' We didn't want to start the season with negative energy from our fans."
The players said they were hearing one thing from the union, and reading another from management.
"I never knew which side to listen to," said Rhonda Blades, who plays for the Mystics. "I would listen to the conference calls, but it was hard to know who to trust."
Some players also had a hard time trusting the union leader they inherited: Billy Hunter, the head of the N.B.P.A., who played an integral role in organizing the women but was better known for his role in the N.B.A. lockout.
"I was seen, or at least, I was characterized as being somewhat of an impediment to the negotiations," said Hunter, who participated in only a half-dozen negotiating sessions. "I felt it was incumbent on my part, and probably in the best interest of the women, to remove myself from the scene. So while I was involved, I just wasn't out front."
But his conspicuous absence led to accusations, from some players and advocates of women's pro sports, that he was neglecting the women.
Hunter said he was briefed on everything that took place. By the time he appointed Pamela M. Wheeler as director of operations for the W.N.B.A. players association on March 30, most of the groundwork for the contract was already in place.
"It was important to the women to have a woman there," Hunter said about Wheeler during the final stages of negotiations, which also involved Valerie B. Ackerman, the W.N.B.A.'s commissioner.
"I wasn't operating in a vacuum," Wheeler said. "I was armed, not only with the necessary tools from Billy, but his confidence in my ability to help arrive at a bargaining agreement. We also had extremely competent attorneys from the N.B.P.A."
Yet others were disappointed in the players' decision to accept the men's union. The Women's Coaches Association, which has 4,500 members in the collegiate and professional ranks, felt it could do more to champion the needs and concerns of the women of the W.N.B.A.
"They are not up on the personalities of women's basketball, the coaches, the players, not just the athletes but the movers and shakers of the game," Beth Bass, executive director of the Women's Basketball Coaches Association, said about the men's union. "This is the very thing our association was worried about. You get people involved that don't understand the history of game, and especially the women's game. The men's game is different from the women, especially in development."
And as a new union, the women were completely dependent upon the men of the N.B.A. for funding and staff. The women didn't have the luxury of holding out with the men footing the bill.
Considering the logistics of briefing 132 athletes, some playing overseas, and facing a deadline imposed by a season timed to the N.B.A.'s off season, the union said it was proud reaching an agreement in less than four months and walking away with something to please most, if not all.
Next time around, however, the players hope to do things differently.
For starters, Lobo would like to get rid of some of the lawyers.
"When you have six or seven lawyers on each side involved," Lobo said, "you're in for a lot of, 'What does this word mean?' The negotiations would have been good, if you had a player who really had a good handle on things, a bright attorney with Val and a bright attorney with the union."
Even better, Lobo suggested, would be a change in scenery.
"In three years, when we have to renegotiate, we should all go out on a golf course and get the deal done," she said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: For the Comets' Cynthia Cooper, right, collective bargaining was a new experience. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (78%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS ASSOCIATION (73%); WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); HOUSTON COMETS (91%); HOUSTON COMETS (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN WOMEN'S NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); HOUSTON COMETS (91%); HOUSTON COMETS (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; LABOR; WOMEN; WAGES AND SALARIES; HEALTH INSURANCE BASKETBALL (95%); SPORTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); MATERNITY LEAVE (78%); US 401K PLANS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, LENA; BATTISTA, JUDY

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



197 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Half-Measures for Poor Nations

 BODY:
In 1996 the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund began a program that was supposed to help the world's poorest nations escape their debt traps. Dozens of nations spend up to 60 percent of their budgets for interest on foreign debt that will never be retired -- leaving little for the basic health care and education needed to reduce poverty. But the debt reduction program has been too stingy. This month the world's richest countries will decide how much to increase it. The proposals offered fall far short of real relief.
Debtor countries, mostly African, largely owe money that lenders pushed on eager governments decades ago, in part to cover commercial loans. The current relief program has several problems that the wealthy nations, known as the G-7, say they want to fix at their summit meeting in Cologne, Germany, on June 18. One is that the standards for qualifying -- six years of adherence to an I.M.F. reform and austerity plan -- are so strict that only Uganda and Bolivia have seen any reduction in their payments, and that has been negligible. Another is that the I.M.F.'s austerity requirements have forced countries to cut basic social services. 
 Washington's limited plan, which will probably win support from the other G-7 countries, would allow countries to qualify for debt relief more quickly, focus the I.M.F. on the importance of spending on the poor, and allow several new countries to qualify. The Administration says a wider plan is unlikely to win over Congress or other nations -- Japan and France are the biggest creditors.
Congress may be more supportive than the Administration thinks. About 50 House members from across the spectrum back a plan sponsored by Jim Leach, an Iowa Republican, to provide deeper relief and help insure that the money is better used. A Harvard economist, Jeffrey Sachs, argues that the World Bank and I.M.F. have the reserves to forgive all they are owed by poor nations.
Debt forgiveness must go to those who earn it through sound economic policies and well-targeted social programs, but the Administration's proposal would allow only a handful of countries to spend more on basic health and education needs. It is heartless to argue that the United States or the I.M.F. cannot afford to lift a burden now borne by the children of Mali or Zambia. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UGANDA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); MALI (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (55%); FRANCE (53%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UGANDA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); MALI (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (55%); FRANCE (53%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; EDITORIALS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



198 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Ambitious Plan to Rebuild Staten Island Ferry Hub

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is expected today to announce an $81 million project to rebuild the St. George terminal of the Staten Island ferry as a sleek new transportation hub.
The project, to be paid for with $61 million in city money and $20 million in Federal transportation assistance, would put Staten Island in the vanguard of several ambitious efforts to rebuild declining areas of the New York City waterfront as centers of commerce, waterborne transportation and recreation. 
 The terminal project is to be the first phase of a sweeping redevelopment plan for the Staten Island waterfront. Besides a new ferry terminal, which is to include a small shopping concourse, the Giuliani administration has thrown its political weight and financial support behind several proposals on adjoining Staten Island waterfront parcels. They include plans for a minor league baseball stadium for a New York Yankees farm team, more retail development and two new museums.
The terminal project was described yesterday as the linchpin of a long-awaited turnaround for Staten Island.
"This is going to create a giant new destination for both tourists and New Yorkers," said Deputy Mayor Randy L. Levine, who described the new terminal and its shops as a "galleria something like Grand Central Station."
Several city officials said yesterday that the terminal project, unlike the stadium and museums proposed for Staten Island, could be built without the environmental and planning review requirements that face most large projects because it would not introduce a new use for city-owned property.
Although Mr. Levine declined to discuss details, he said a city plan first proposed under Mayor David N. Dinkins in the early 1990's to reconstruct the Staten Island ferry terminal at the foot of Whitehall Street in Manhattan would be announced soon. "That project will happen, but it's an announcement for another day," he said.
On Staten Island, Guy V. Molinari, the Borough President, said yesterday that the St. George terminal project would provide vital economic stimulation and fresh impetus for the other developments planned on the St. George waterfront.
"I've never seen as much happening at once," Mr. Molinari said. "Up to now, all we've had is stuff coming down, and we are looking at an extraordinary array of waterfront developments side by side."
He said construction of the new terminal should begin by this fall and be completed sometime in 2002.
According to plans provided by the project's architect, the New York firm of Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, the new St. George Terminal would provide passengers with a larger, lighter and technologically advanced waiting room that would lie beneath the structure's most dramatic architectural element, an arched ceiling resting on huge panels of glass.
A separate section of the terminal, also featuring large windows, is to house about a dozen restaurants and shops.
Although the terminal's five ferry berths and passenger loading areas would not be moved, the plan calls for a public rooftop esplanade facing lower Manhattan, improved traffic circulation for motorists dropping off ferry passengers and new escalators and wider platforms to improve access to the Staten Island Railroad, which has a station at the base of the ferry terminal.
Mr. Molinari said the shopping area to be included in the new terminal was being designed as a first installment in what may become a far larger retail concourse, which could be built just south of the terminal by private developers on city-owned property.
If built, that concourse would separate the terminal from the 52-acre site designated by both the city and Mr. Molinari's staff over the last year for a stadium to be leased to Sandlot Sports, a company partially controlled by relatives of the Yankees' principal owner, George M. Steinbrenner 3d, and operated as a Class A league franchise of the Yankees. Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum has also prepared the plans for that project.
The city, through its Economic Development Corporation, has already committed $12.5 million to the minor league baseball proposal in its purchase last year of the site, a former rail yard now used as a parking lot. Mr. Giuliani has also promised that the city will pay for construction of the proposed stadium, estimated to cost $29 million.
The two museums proposed near the new St. George terminal have more difficult financial hurdles to overcome. One would be the National Lighthouse Center and Museum, proposed for a 10-acre site just north of the ferry terminal by a national organization of lighthouse preservation groups. Although $5 million has been promised in city and state support, the lighthouse groups must raise an additional $15 million to cover the project's projected budget.
The other museum is being proposed for a site south of the ferry terminal by the Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences, which hopes to build an exhibition space devoted to the history of New York Harbor. The New York State Dormitory Authority has promised to back $40 million in bonds that would be issued by the arts institute, but that would not cover the project's projected budget of $55 million.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A rendering of the proposed project for the St. George terminal of the Staten Island ferry. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is expected to announce the $81 million plan today. (pg. B1); Passengers on a ferryboat about to dock yesterday in a slip at the ferry terminal on Staten Island. A new slip, at upper right, is under construction. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (51%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES HOK GROUP INC (51%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); NEW YORK YANKEES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; STATEN ISLAND (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: FERRIES; STATEN ISLAND FERRY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BASEBALL; MINOR LEAGUES; STADIUMS FERRIES (93%); BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MAYORS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



199 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Auto Makers and Union Eager for Long-Term Deal
With General Motors, Ford and DaimlerChrysler scheduled to begin talks next week with the United Automobile Workers union, it appears increasingly likely that negotiators will seek a national labor contract lasting four or more years, the longest such deal since the 1950's, auto executives and union officials said.
Chastened by a strike last summer against G.M. and enjoying the soaring profits and bountiful overtime pay produced by record auto sales, management and workers appear eager to avoid another showdown this year. The U.A.W. would also be able to avoid having the next round of auto labor talks in the summer of 2002, when the union could be locked in a power struggle after the retirement of its president, Stephen P. Yokich. Page C2. 

Curiously, Intel Agrees to Limit Jobs
In an unusual arrangement that reflects both the flush national economy and Oregon's particular obsession with controlling sprawl, Intel has agreed to pay a fee if it exceeds a ceiling of 1,000 new manufacturing jobs on top of the 4,000 it already has in Washington County, part of the Portland metropolitan area. A18.
 
More I.B.M. Testimony on Microsoft
A Microsoft executive told I.B.M. privately in 1997 that the computer maker would pay a lower price for Microsoft's Windows operating system if it did not ship a competing Internet browser, an I.B.M. executive, Garry Norris, testified in the Microsoft antitrust trial. C6.
 
Replay Networks in Panasonic Deal
Replay Networks has signed an agreement with Panasonic Consumer Electronics to make its new digital video recorders systems and have them in stores for the Christmas shopping season. The set-top boxes blend the power of computers with television. C9.
 
 
Prescription Plan Draws Skepticism
Drug industry and insurance executives reacted with skepticism to White House plans for a new prescription drug benefit for all elderly Americans. Drug manufacturers said they did not believe the assurances of Administration officials that the proposal would not lead to price controls on drugs. C6.
 
G.M. to Buy Bank of New York Unit
General Motors agreed to buy Bank of New York's commercial lending unit for $1.8 billion as the auto maker diversifies its holdings and the bank continues to specialize its operations. For Bank of New York, the deal fits a pattern of concentrating on fee-based operations. Its shares rose $2.375, to $37.0625, while G.M. fell $1.375, to $67.75. C6.
 
Lawyer Panel Backs New Alliances
In a move that would transform how legal services are provided, a special panel of the American Bar Association recommended abandoning decades-old rules that have prevented lawyers from setting up partnerships with accountants, consultants and other professionals. C6.
 
Air Passengers Told to Be Punctual
With the airline industry's on-time performance lagging, US Airways is the latest carrier to require passengers to board planes at least 10 minutes before scheduled departure -- or risk being left behind. Business Travel. C9.
 
Cathay Pacific Grounds Flights
Cathay Pacific Airways grounded more than half its flights in a bitter dispute with pilots who have been calling in sick over a demand by the carrier to accept pay cuts averaging 7 percent or quit with six months' pay. C4.
 
Productivity Figures Revised
Revised figures showed that worker productivity rose 3.5 percent in the first quarter, less than the 4 percent previously estimated. C2.
 
Change-Over at Economic Council
White House officials said that they would most likely nominate Martin Baily, a partner at McKinsey & Company, to succeed Janet L. Yellen later this year as head of the Council of Economic Advisers. Ms. Yellen plans to leave this summer to return to teaching. C9.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 10,765.64, down 143.74
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.99%, up 0.03
The Dollar -- 118.88 yen, down 1.92
 
Graph tracks Bank of New York share price, since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); 6752 (TSE) (82%); BK (NYSE) (81%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (83%); PANASONIC CORP (82%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (81%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); INTEL CORP (56%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OREGON, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (85%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); AIRLINES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); SALES MANAGEMENT (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); DRUG PRICES (70%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (70%); SALES & SELLING (70%); LAWYERS (69%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); BROADBAND (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (67%); INTERNET BROWSERS (65%); CD & DVD DRIVES (64%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (63%); AGING (62%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999



200 of 656 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2071 words

HEADLINE: Alexander Treks Uphill In Faltering Campaign

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: MARYVILLE, Tenn.

 BODY:
The last time he ran for President, Lamar Alexander saw no need to parade before voters his membership in the elite fellowship of Eagle Scouts. To any son of the modest, contented town of Maryville, in the hills of eastern Tennessee, it would have been a vainglorious declaration, made creaky by the rustle of ancient merit badges.
But this time around, the self-effacement is over, jettisoned with the flannel shirts and statewide hikes. Suddenly, Mr. Alexander has decided he has every reason to inform voters of his Eagle Scout award, his impeccable family life, his respectable record as a two-term governor of Tennessee. Convinced by a year of Washington scandal that his moment has finally arrived, he does so with little prompting. 
 "Back in 1974, Ray Blanton beat me by calling me Richard Nixon's choirboy," Mr. Alexander said in an interview, referring to the disgraced former Governor of Tennessee. "But four years later, after people found out he was selling pardons for cash, they decided electing a choirboy wouldn't be so bad. And this year, people are looking for character again. They come up and tell me they want someone who will restore decency to the White House."
The personal failings of President Clinton have created a new theme for Mr. Alexander's second Presidential campaign, which until recently had threatened to sound very much like his earnest but lackluster effort in 1996. His proposals to decentralize education and lower taxes, impassioned as they sound, have yet to arouse many voters, and his fund-raising has fallen so far below expectations that it is threatening the viability of his campaign.
He has plowed and seeded Iowa and New Hampshire for seven years, but much of his organizing work has been washed away by the leading Republican candidate, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, who has considerably less governmental experience than Mr. Alexander but a much better-known name. Many party leaders on whom Mr. Alexander had counted have embraced Mr. Bush, who is attracting so many Republican dollars that Mr. Alexander's campaign has been forced to lay off senior staff members just to stay alive.
And so Mr. Alexander is going beyond most of this year's mainstream challengers in using the Lewinsky scandal and its moral repercussions as a broad cudgel to batter the Clinton Administration -- and by extension, Vice President Al Gore -- on diverse topics like Kosovo and Littleton, Colo.
Mr. Clinton, he says, has "destroyed the nation's confidence in its Government" and squandered the moral authority he needs to wage war and heal the wounds of the school shooting. Mr. Gore, as the President's "head cheerleader," is no less guilty because of his support and continued praise for Mr. Clinton, Mr. Alexander said, adding an aphorism: "He can't take all the credit for Mr. Clinton's economy and none of the blame for his misconduct."
 
Savoring the Contrast With an Opponent
Of course, if Mr. Alexander's straight-backed persona also presents a contrast with the dimly lighted background of Mr. Bush, that will not bother him a bit.
"I expect all of us in the field will get asked lots of questions about our background," he said recently, driving a visitor around the placid neighborhood in Maryville where he grew up and took piano lessons. "And I for one intend to answer those questions. I don't expect I'll have very many to answer."
He wants desperately to be asked, though, and quickly. As cheery and confident as Mr. Alexander sounds, his campaign is in danger of starvation. Though he has stump appeal and one of the best fund-raisers in the Republican Party, he has not been able to draw nourishment from the party's donors. The reason might be summed up in one of the maxims that punctuate his life and fill the self-deprecating and amusing "Little Plaid Book" he published last year: "If you want to be noticed, don't ride in a convertible with Dolly Parton."
In this case, it is Mr. Bush who fills the role of the siren, and it frustrates Mr. Alexander to no end that so many Republicans are betting on a well-known name. He had hoped to raise about $7 million by now, but was expected to report less than $2.5 million in his second-quarter filing later this month.
Over the last week, he has been forced to lay off four of his most senior staff members, including the directors of research, communications and legal affairs. It was a painful admission for a candidate desperate to radiate confidence and momentum, particularly when he was still trying to convince his supporters that his single-digit poll ratings meant nothing at this early stage. Now, he must bet his entire treasury on the two states with the first voices of 2000, Iowa and New Hampshire, all the while praying for Mr. Bush to bungle his lead.
The strategy remains plausible, however, particularly given Mr. Bush's reticence so far in outlining his positions, and in the absence of any other nationally known, tested Republican in the race. By most reckonings, the Alexander campaign is the best organized in Iowa, with most of the county leaders as well as the popular former Governor Terry E. Branstad supporting him. Mr. Alexander announced today that he had volunteer organizations set up in each of the state's 99 counties, more than any of the other contenders. That actually counts for something in Iowa, where voters have to be persuaded to come out on a winter night, but it is hardly a guarantee of success.
"He has been visiting here regularly for the last seven years, and historically that has made a difference for some candidates who are not that well known," said Hugh Winebrenner, a professor of public administration at Drake University in Des Moines and author of a book on the Iowa caucuses. "The flip side is that he's got to have some good news at some point, because in the end it's enthusiasm that puts you over the top."
Mr. Alexander prefers, of course, to take the long view, and counsels skeptics to "remember the fable of the tortoise and the hare."
 
Seeking an Audience Beyond the Countryside
Mr. Alexander's third-place showing in Iowa in 1996 brought him considerable money and attention, at least until he was shot down in the New Hampshire primary by Bob Dole, and Mr. Alexander dropped out a few weeks later. Now, he is staking seven years of work on the hope that something like his third-place showing will happen again, that his unassuming personality will play well in Iowa and attract a quick pivot of the national attention.
"Anybody who grew up in Maryville, plays the piano, was an Eagle Scout and goes to church, is going to do well in Iowa, and not badly in New Hampshire," Mr. Alexander said. "Iowa and New Hampshire suit me fine."
The real question, of course, is how he will fare in those parts of the nation that do not share the open countryside, the comfortable porch swings, the uncynical outlook of his hometown or the rural precincts of Iowa. Though he is not as conservative as Ronald Reagan, he frequently invokes Mr. Reagan's optimism and thematic use of the Presidency as his models, soothing his listeners with slightly dreamy descriptions of how the country could return to small-town values. But without Mr. Reagan's magnetism, his words may play differently in large cities.
"When I was growing up, parents and teachers were deeply involved in the lives of children," Mr. Alexander said in a speech a few weeks ago at an outdoor festival in Elizabethton, Tenn., population 13,289, explaining why so many of today's children seem to be lost. "There were nosy neighbors who watched us as we went to school, teachers who knew they had authority from the community to teach us right from wrong as well as math and English. There were choir masters and scoutmasters and churches open so many days a week that it seemed like Sunday came every other day. That is not nostalgia, it is a tried and true recipe for helping our children."
 
Conceding Charisma To Other Candidates
He is not a wooden speaker; his delivery is crisp and effective, particularly with like-minded crowds, but he rarely sets his listeners vibrating with an emotional connection. As frustrated as he is with Mr. Bush's outsized silhouette, the worst thing he can say about him is that the Texas Governor is untested.
One Republican Party official who has worked with Mr. Alexander said he could probably outspeak Al Gore or Bill Bradley, the former New Jersey Senator who is running for the Democratic nomination, but would have trouble against a more charismatic candidate.
"He's a dear and wonderful man, but he can be in a room two hours before you know he's there," the official said. "It's hard to define, but he needs more of that star quality people have come to expect."
Mr. Alexander, who is 58, seems aware that he is no firebrand, but he argues that people have grown weary of charisma. This is not an unfamiliar argument; it has been made many times over the years by similar candidates, and is also being used by the Gore and Bradley campaigns. But it is central to Mr. Alexander's conception of himself, and this year he has decided to forgo the gimmickry of the plaid shirts, which were originally designed to help him stand out, and concentrate on the things he does well.
"I don't intend to try to manufacture an issue just to capture the headlines," he said, referring to the publicity surrounding Elizabeth Dole's embrace of gun control. "That wouldn't work; people would see through it. The best course for me is to remember the fable of the tortoise and the hare, and organize the counties and raise enough money, and practice my speeches and have a good time. And hopefully the day after the Iowa caucuses, everyone in the country will know who I am. So I'm going to have to be patient."
Those who listen will hear a firmly etched manifesto of moderate grass-roots conservatism, presented in an easygoing Presbyterian style, all common sense and good will. He is convinced that with less interference from Washington, the parents, school boards and local elected officials around the country can find their own solutions to educational problems. He no longer advocates the dismantling of the Department of Education, aware that such a proposal sounds a bit strange coming from a man who was President George Bush's Education Secretary. But he still wants to help families by giving children $1,500 scholarships and letting them choose their own school, public, private or charter. He favors breaking the power of teachers' unions and Federal bureaucrats.
"Al Gore thinks he knows what's best for this country," Mr. Alexander says in every stump speech. "What I want to do is bring out the best in this country."
It takes him about 20 seconds to go from denouncing the Littleton shootings to demanding an end to the marriage tax and a tripling of the child deductions, certain that a restructuring of Federal tax policy would strengthen families as much as the economy. He does not favor an amendment outlawing abortion and says he could support some Federal gun-control legislation, but also supports a missile defense system and wants no limits on campaign fund-raising from individuals. Though he was a clerk for the late Federal Judge John Minor Wisdom, one of the authors of modern affirmative action, he opposes any form of racial preferences and says the Clinton Administration has talked too much about race and too little about unity.
Mr. Alexander is annoyed by the suggestion that he is unusually persevering, suspecting the implication that his cause is hopeless, and correctly points out that Mr. Reagan and many other politicians tried more than once for the Presidency. He is clearly propelled by a sense that he has trained for the Presidency, and seems mystified that the country might not want to make use of the skills he developed in the Tennessee Statehouse, at the helm of the University of Tennessee and in a day-care business that made him a wealthy man after drawing on his contacts as Governor.
"By this age, I pretty much know what my skills are, and I felt like when I was Governor, I was really at the peak of my performance in making the most contributions I could make," he said. "I just feel that this is what I should be doing. My character and demeanor, which wouldn't be suited to every set of times, might be, as it turns out, very well-suited to these times."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lamar Alexander has had to lay off some of his campaign's staff members. He recently spoke to a small crowd in Elizabethton, Tenn. (Rick Owens for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (79%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE; UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SCANDALS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (70%); ETHICS (69%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (69%); SHOOTINGS (60%); 

PERSON: ALEXANDER, LAMAR; FIRESTONE, DAVID LAMAR ALEXANDER (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999

 
