

401 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 10; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: BOOK REVIEW;
Why Nassau County Is No New York City

BYLINE: By BARTH HEALEY 

 BODY:
SITTING in southbound traffic on Glen Cove Road, waiting for a vast tractor-trailer to make a tight right turn through the tangled traffic onto Old Country Road, one forgets there was life in Nassau County before the internal combustion engine.
Last week Hofstra University offered this aid to memory: an edited collection of papers delivered a year earlier at a conference presented by Hofstra and the Long Island Studies Institute to mark the centennial of the establishment of the county, on Jan. 1, 1899. 
 Some histories herein, mostly dry but well written, stretch back to the earliest settlements in the 1640's. But the focus is on the years leading to Nassau's "independence" and beyond, and the emphasis is frequently on the fact that -- thank heavens -- Nassau is not New York City.
In 1898 the western two-thirds of what was then Queens County -- Long Island City, Newtown, Jamaica and Flushing -- was joined to New York City; the eastern third -- Hempstead, North Hempstead and Oyster Bay -- was left in a sort of limbo. That limbo lasted a year, until Nassau County was created. (Among the many bits of trivia: the name Nassau originated in the 12th century.)
Two themes that drive so many conversations on the Island today run though this centennial history: politics and the environment.
Strong-willed male Republicans dominated the county's development, including Senator Thomas C. Platt, who muscled approval of the new county through the State Legislature in 1898, and J. Russel Sprague, who centralized executive power in 1936, making Nassau the first county in the nation to have an elected chief executive.
One of the more enlightening essays is by Marjorie Freeman Harrison, a library media specialist at Lawrence High School, who tells how G. Wilbur Doughty built on the cohesiveness of the Italian immigrant community in Inwood to solidify Republican power.
Two enviornmental issues seemed to dominate the South Shore: the decision to sell water from Hempstead to Brooklyn (and thus deplete Island supplies) beginning in 1871 and the dredging and sewage disposal that had to be addressed in the development of Long Beach in 1907. Both are laid out clearly here.
The compendium touches on other conversation points.
Is Nassau County "united"? The various roles of the Hempstead Plains -- farmland and military training ground and now the route of major east-west road and rail divides -- are described in several essays, but still the consensus is that the north-south social and economic gap has been bridged.
How much power should developers have?
This issue is examined at some length by Patricia T. Caro in her chronology of the drawing of the Queens-Nassau border, especially in the Five Towns area (an article that could have used more detailed maps).
There are a few misfires. Articles on the Jewish communities and on women in the clergy seem to lack the "Island-ness" of the others. The six short summaries on health care are perfunctory. And an article on Alan King and Billy Crystal titled "From Soup to Nuts: Laughter in the Suburbs" does not seem to have any point.
The index -- a key component of any reference work -- is uneven (William Burden, the originator of the plan to sell water to Queens, is omitted; a passing reference to Frank Sinatra is included).
Overall, though, this book is a rich, well-written source of information. Several towns are covered in some depth: Hempstead, Inwood, the Bellmores, Farmingdale (two articles), Long Beach. Almost all the 32 papers include extensive bibliographies.
A browse through this collection could prove a welcome distraction after a morning spent inching along Old Country Road.
 
NASSAU COUNTY
From Rural Hinterland to Suburban Metropolis
Joann P. Krieg and Natalie A. Naylor, editors
 
Illustrated. 336 pages. Interlaken, N.Y.: Empire State Books. $19.99, paper.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A cartoon from The Nassau Republican, June 1954. Halstead Scudder, below, called the meetings in January 1898 that led to the formation of Nassau County. (Long Island Studies Institute at Hofstra)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: NASSAU COUNTY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (58%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (58%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); COUNTIES (77%); CHRONOLOGIES (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); LITERATURE (67%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); IMMIGRATION (62%); 

PERSON: HEALEY, BARTH; KRIEG, JOANN P; NAYLOR, NATALIE A CRAIG THOMAS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



402 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 8; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: The Search For Money To Preserve The Land

BYLINE: By ROBERT DUBROW 

 BODY:
NED ELLIS'S dairy farm in Hebron has been in the family since 1903. When real estate developers make lucrative offers for parcels of his land, he turns them down.
"We're supposed to be caretakers of the land," he said. "If we sell our land, we're shooting ourselves in the foot." 
 But the economics of farming in Connecticut are such that many farmers do sell. The state lost 21 percent of its farmland between 1984 and 1997, when the United States Department of Agriculture estimated the state's remaining farmland at some 380,000 acres.
"I don't think people understand the gravity of the situation," said Mr. Ellis, who can name seven farmers who have sold their farms since the beginning of this year alone.
A group called the Working Lands Alliance -- a coalition of agricultural organizations, food security groups, conservation organizations, local government associations and farmers -- is working to save the state's farmland. The alliance supports a bill before the General Assembly (H.B. 5173) that would revitalize the State Department of Agriculture's Farmland Preservation Program.
Funded through bonding, this program allows farmers to sell their land's development rights to the state for an amount equal to the difference between its fair market value for development and its value for agricultural use. In return, a permanent easement on the land restricts all nonagricultural uses.
The result: The farmer can keep farming, and the land is protected from development, even if the ownership changes. Some 20 states have similar programs.
In February, the State Bond Commission approved the purchase of development rights to 251 acres of Mr. Ellis's 450-acre farm and to an entire neighboring farm of 173 acres. In the current market, a developer would probably offer about $5,400 per acre. The state will pay about $4,000 per acre.
Mr. Ellis plans to use a portion of his proceeds to buy the neighboring farm, which he has rented for the past decade. It will be affordable at its agricultural value of $1,400 per acre. Mr. Ellis said he had no doubt that the owner would have sold the acreage to developers had he not been able to sell the development rights.
Mark Ruwet, the executive director of the Connecticut Farm Bureau, cited three situations that cause farms to be sold. First, there is an aging population of farmers for whom the farm is the only retirement investment. And because of the high price of land, selling is a very attractive way to retire, he said.
Second, some Connecticut farmers sell in order to buy farms in places where land is less expensive.
Third, when a farmer dies, heirs often are not interested in farming. In many cases, because of estate taxes, they have no alternative but to sell.
And when farms are sold, those willing and able to pay top dollar are usually developers, not other farmers or young people who want to start farming.
That's where the Farmland Preservation Program comes in, said Robin Chesmer, a farmer in Lebanon. Eleven years ago, fulfilling a lifelong dream to farm, he purchased the cows and leased the land from a retiring dairy farmer. Three years later, the retired owner sold the development rights to the state, enabling Mr. Chesmer to buy the farm for about one-third of its previous value.
"That was what allowed us to get into the business," he said. "We were able to purchase the farm for its agricultural value rather than its development value."
The Farmland Preservation Program can help keep a farm in the family, Mr. Chesmer said. "You want to retire and you've got 20 years ahead of you," he said. "If you sold the development rights, you could invest it, and the next generation could purchase the farm and keep it agricultural."
But for every farmer who has benefited from the Farmland Preservation Program, there are many who have been unable to participate.
Since the program began in 1978, it has preserved 26,610 acres, short of its 130,000 goal. Since 1995, the state has acquired the development rights to 12 farms, with applications pending from more than 200 farmers.
Many farmers do not apply because they know of the long waiting list, and many who would have preferred to sell their development rights ended up selling their land for development, Mr. Ruwet said.
The main problem, said Mark Winne, the chairman of the Working Lands Alliance, has been insufficient money. The bill supported by the alliance would authorize $50 million in bonding over the next five years compared with $7.5 million over the previous five.
A second problem, Mr. Winne said, is that more than $6 million of the money already authorized has not been spent.
Under current law, the Department of Agriculture must obtain approval from the Bond Commission for each development-rights purchase. "The governor sets the agenda of the Bond Commission," Mr. Winne said. "If the governor doesn't call farmland up on the agenda, nothing happens."
Dean Pagani, a spokesman for Gov. John G. Rowland, said that many more projects are authorized by the General Assembly than can be paid for by the Bond Commission.
"There are a number of very worthy projects competing for Bond Commission money," he said, such as a multiyear project to preserve open space and a half-billion dollar school construction project.
The legislation supported by the Working Lands Alliance would direct the Bond Commission to authorize the issuance of bond funds for farmland preservation in two installments each year and would give the commissioner of agriculture the authority to spend the money without getting approval for each individual purchase. However, the Finance Committee recently removed these provisions from the bill.
According to Joseph Dippel, the director of the Farmland Preservation Program, it aims to purchase the development rights from the best farms that apply, in terms of productivity, soil quality and location. "We work with the number that we have funding available to work with," he said, which he put at about 15.
"You try to protect farms in areas where you have other farms because they make their own best neighbors," he said. "A farm surrounded by development is quite often difficult to farm because of the sights, sounds and noises typically associated with farming, whether it's running an irrigation pump or the smells of spreading manure. We try to cluster farms together so they could be maintained as economically viable farm communities."
Some of the best farmland in Connecticut and around the country is being lost, Mr. Winne said. "We need to be planning where our food is going to be coming from for the long term. We can't just say Connecticut land is best used for growing houses."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ned Ellis's land in Hebron, above, has been preserved by a program that allows farmers to sell development rights to the state. Mr. Ellis, left, runs a farm that has been in his family since 1903. (Photographs by Carla M. Cataldi for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (CONN) US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (CONN) US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; GOVERNMENT BONDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION REAL ESTATE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (78%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (78%); AGING TRENDS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); ESTATE TAX (73%); BONDS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); FOOD SECURITY (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); AGING (50%); APPROVALS (50%); 

PERSON: DUBROW, ROBERT NED ELLIS (87%); ROBIN CHESMER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



403 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: In West Seattle, Constructing Rooms With a View

BYLINE: By HARRIET KING 

DATELINE: SEATTLE

 BODY:
THE economic boom is visible in the new housing seen in many older neighborhoods here, among them West Seattle, the birthplace of the city, where high-density housing is rising along the Puget Sound in the area where the first settlers landed in 1851.
On Alki Beach across Elliott Bay from the downtown, a 10-minute drive away, developers have constructed 21 buildings in the last decade or so, with a total of about 440 condominiums. About half of them have been built in the latest development spurt in the last five years. 
 Now, two developers are framing two luxury buildings, with 15 more luxury condos. The apartments command sweeping views of the water or the downtown skyline and are replacing ramshackle turn-of-the-century cabins that were summer homes for city dwellers.
"We like this area because there is not a lot of beachfront around the downtown," said Mark Pryde, a vice president of the Pryde Corporation, which sold the last of its 20 apartments at Point Nautica last year. Pryde has built six buildings in the last six years at Alki Beach, with a total of 140 apartments. "The condominiums have water views that will never be blocked, and Alki Beach has a 'resort town' feel, with restaurants and pastry shops," he said. "We're seeing the rebirth of older cities all across the country, and this is happening in West Seattle now."
With 96,000 residents, a mix of blue collar and professional, West Seattle was annexed by the City of Seattle in 1907.
In the early 1900's, West Seattle was a thriving community when the Luna Park amusement park was built on the tide flats. Initially, it drew crowds that arrived by train or ferry from downtown Seattle to ride the roller-coaster, but its popularity later dwindled, and under pressure from prohibitionists, the park closed in 1913. Its remains burned down in 1931, and Alki Beach became neglected and blighted. Many people considered West Seattle the boondocks because the Duwamish River, which forms its eastern boundary, cuts it off from the rest of the city.
 West Seattle's fortunes began to change in 1983 when a high-rise bridge was built over the river, connecting with Interstate 5. At Alki (pronounced with a long i, like bike) Beach, the city invested in a four-mile-long promenade, boathouse and fishing pier. By the late 1990's, new condominiums and single-family homes were going up, and restaurants and a bakery were thriving. In December, Starbucks opened a branch.
NOW, housing prices are heating up. In 1999, the average price for 154 condominiums sold was $272,288, compared with $229,730 for the 227 sold in 1998 and $191,999 in 1997. In 1999, 1,403 homes sold at an average price of $237,779, compared with $209,115 for the 1,323 homes sold in 1998 and $184,248 in 1997. West Seattle is still more affordable than Seattle as a whole, where the average sales price in 1999 was about $300,000.
As land becomes scarcer in the Alki Beach area, prices for the new condos are rising. At Point Nautica, the latest Pryde development, prices ranged from $450,000 to $1.8 million for apartments with 1,500 square feet to 4,000 square feet. At Pryde's first building in 1994, prices ranged from $250,000 to $400,000 for the same amount space.
The company sold about half of its condos before construction even began at Point Nautica. But the high prices make the developers nervous. "Higher land costs create a thinner market," Mr. Pryde said, "as more people can afford $250,000 units than $500,000."
 A few blocks away, on the eastern side of Alki Beach, the Sabey Corporation is completing the shell of a five-story building, called Duwamish Head. Each condo will occupy a single floor, with 4,000 square feet plus 700 square feet of patio or terrace. Sabey has sold the top three floors at about $2 million each, and buyers will hire their own designers to install the kitchens and to complete the decorating. Joe Wang, the development manager, said the first- and second-floor story units are unsold, priced at $1.4 million for the shell and $1.8 million if Sabey completes the interiors.
 Down the street, construction crews for the Seagulf Group are framing the third floor of a six-story building containing 10 condominiums with 1,681 to 1,880 square feet priced at $599,900 to $786,000. Two 3,750-square-foot penthouses will be priced at $2 million each. Gerald Potter, the sales agent for the project, said the smallest unit is sold -- to the banker that financed the project. "The lower units have a 35-foot span of windows," he said, "and the penthouses 70 feet, to capture views."
Tom Roth, a Prudential Northwest Realty salesman, said: "Construction on Alki will continue for some time as a number of sites are still left. A lot of units will soon go into areas by the beach that do not have views. People want to be by the saltwater and where things are booming."
 The rising prices at Alki Beach are causing Matt Vaughn to delay construction until he sees how the market evolves. He has another reason to delay development of his site, which includes three quaint 1920's houses. "It's hard to tear down the homes, especially since I live in one," he said.
 ABOUT three miles inland from Alki Beach, the 30-year-old Westwood Village shopping mall is in the middle of a $10 million expansion, adding 50,000 square feet to its 350,000 square feet. Tom Sroufe, the senior vice president of Wesbild Inc., the mall's owner, said that plans include a new 12-screen movie theater with 2,200 seats.
 A few blocks from the mall, the nonprofit Delridge Neighborhood Development Association has just begun selling 17 two-bedroom town houses. The 1,000-square-foot units, priced at $150,000, are part of the Brandon Court mixed-use project that also houses the association's headquarters, a Gai's Bakery and city offices.
"We worked hard to keep the town houses affordable as part of our goal to create a thriving neighborhood," says Paul Fischburg, Delridge's director. The group's next project will be a 6,500-square-foot building with a Seattle Public Library branch on the first floor and 19 low-income apartments above.
 A few blocks away, Jefferson Properties will develop 15 acres, a former sand and gravel pit, into 141 homes priced from $180,000 to $230,000 for 1,200 square feet to 1,800 square feet.
"This is the largest vacant residential land parcel left for development in Seattle because it has environmental problems from contaminated soil that was dumped long ago," said Ray Stevenson, the developer. He plans to clean up the site this summer and start construction next year. "Unfortunately, these are the types of sites for homes that are left in the city."
 But Mr. Stevenson added, "West Seattle is a great area and appeals to people who are so tired of the traffic bottlenecks on the freeways and no longer want long commutes to the suburbs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Condos line Alki Avenue overlooking Elliott Bay in West Seattle. (Doug Wilson for The New York Times)
 
Map of Seattle highlighting Elliott Bay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (98%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: PRYDE CORP (70%); SABEY CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST SEATTLE (WASH); UNITED STATES (98%); WASHINGTON, USA (98%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (78%); RETAIL BAKERIES (70%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (65%); BAKERIES (65%); 

PERSON: KING, HARRIET

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



404 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 8; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Saving the Farm Through Cooperation

BYLINE: By ALAN BISBORT 

 BODY:
THE stories have a sad sameness to them. A family can't afford to keep a farm, a developer makes an offer, the land is re-zoned residential, and housing replaces fertile fields and open spaces. And it happens so often that the small farm almost seems doomed to become a quaint relic, like the colonial-era syllabub churn or the cracker barrel.
But a loose-knit group of farmers is going about the business of preserving farmland through a movement called community-supported agriculture, in which people buy "shares" in a farm's produce in advance, then receive regular deliveries throughout the growing season. 
 Financially, and in other ways, the membership buffers the farm's ups and downs.
"If the farm has a bad year, like last year with the drought, the members don't abandon it," said Ellen Greist, who with her husband, Walter, has been running a community-supported farm, Mill River Valley Gardens, in North Haven, since 1989. "It's supported in good times and bad, and the farm remains a part of the community."
Starting in 1986 with Indian Line Farm in Massachusetts and Temple-Wilton Community Farm in New Hampshire, the movement has now spread throughout the country. Figures vary as to how many community-supported farms are in the United States -- most are in the Northeast, with clusters in Minnesota, Wisconsin and California's Bay Area -- but estimates range from 600 to 1,000 farms, serving 100,000 households.
Connecticut is home to 20 such farms.
"Everybody's story is different," said Mr. Greist, whose four-acre farm is on land that was fallow for over a century. Despite the drought, the farm produced 83 shares last year. "We grew 75 items and managed to put out shares each week, but the totals were 35 percent below our goal. It was wonderful to have the support to tide us over. We had many hands to help with the weeds."
There are various levels of commitment in community-supported agriculture. Some members pay a flat fee and make weekly pickups of their share of produce; some work off all or part of the cost of their share by helping on the farm.
At tiny (one-acre) Mad Mares Farm in Bethany, one full share costs $300, buying each of its 50 or so members 21 to 24 weeks of large weekly portions of some of the following: lettuce, mesclun, kale, leeks, cucumbers, tatsoi, mizuna, onions, bok choy, beets, radishes, carrots, chard, turnips, beans, peas, peppers, arugula, tomatoes and potatoes. Crops are ready for weekly harvesting as early as June and continue into November.
Some of the system's selling points are obvious: easy access to fresh vegetables and preservation of open land. Most community-supported farms use organic farming methods -- i.e., biological rather than chemical fertilizers and pesticides -- and many people believe it creates healthier soil.
Some advantages are not so obvious: the distribution system -- often individual pickups from the farm -- creates less truck traffic, water pollution and waste.
And some are almost unquantifiable: the psychological lift town residents get when they make a difference that they can see, and when they can, literally, become reconnected to the earth by getting their hands dirty.
"They know where their food comes from," Mr. Greist said, "and they can participate 365 days a year."
One of Connecticut's largest community supported farms is in Granby, on land bequeathed by Tudor and Laura Holcomb to be used for agricultural education. A group called Friends of Holcomb Farm spent three years devising a plan for the 320 acres that includes an environmental center, a grazing program and a 16-acre community-supported farm, which began operating in 1994.
Run by the Hartford Food System, a nonprofit organization that tries to increase access to affordable and nutritious food, the farm also has a program that teaches urban and minority youths about agriculture and augments their diet with produce.
"We have a very strong belief in this as a community builder and an empowerment builder," said Elizabeth Wheeler, Hartford Food System's program director. "The object isn't to make this a work-for-food situation. It's education and outreach."
In 1999, Holcomb Farm's community-supported operation, with a permanent staff of six, raised 120,000 pounds of produce, which was shared by 215 member households and 14 social organizations connected to Hartford Food System. Among them was Granby Social Services.
"Granby has become more of a bedroom community for professionals rather than the old agricultural community it was," said Ms. Wheeler. "Ironically, some of the lower income people in Granby now are the ones who formerly worked on farms."
An early March meeting in Hartford organized by Mrs. Greist, the North Haven farmer, brought together proponents of community-supported agriculture and members of Northeast Organic Farming Association in Hartford at an End of Winter Conference.
The mood was positive at the all-day conference, which included seminars on mechanized farming, organic land care, biotechnology and "community organizing for positive change."
Among the attendees was Elizabeth Henderson, who runs a community-supported farm in New York and wrote, with Robyn Van En, the movement's bible, "Sharing the Harvest: A Guide to Community-Supported Agriculture" (Chelsea Green).
"Farmers alone have been shouldering the risks of an increasingly ruthless global market, which has forced millions of them from the land," she said. "Most people don't know where or how their food is grown. They cannot touch the soil or talk to the farmer who tends it."
Community-supported agriculture offers "one of the most hopeful alternatives," she said.
Also attending was Bill Duesing, one of the leading lights of the small organic farm movement. Connecticut has 54 certified organic farms, some of which have begun to incorporate aspects of community-supported agriculture. Mr. Duesing, with his wife, Suzanne, runs Old Solar Farm in Oxford, directs the Oxford Land Trust and syndicates a regular farming column, as well as offering commentaries on community radio.
"I think that C.S.A.'s have the possibility to be, and some are, an alternative food-distribution system," he said, referring to farms using community-supported agriculture. "Distribution is 80 percent of the cost of food in this country."
But he was less optimistic about the effect on sprawl.
"I'm afraid that nothing short of great disaster or major economic changes will stop sprawl," he said. "However, I imagine that C.S.A.'s are having some effect keeping suburban land productive. It is also hopeful and encouraging to see the relatively rapid growth of C.S.A.'s, and farmers markets, community gardens and school gardens, in this country over the just the last 10 to 15 years."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Bucciaglia, manager of Holcomb Farm in Granby, with Elizabeth Wheeler, program director of the Hartford Food System, which runs it. (pg. 8); A full $300 share in the one-acre Mad Mares Farm in Bethany buys 21 to 24 portions of fresh produce. (Steve Miller for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); ZONING (78%); AGRICULTURE (76%); 

PERSON: BISBORT, ALAN ELLEN GREIST (78%); LAURA HOLCOMB (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



405 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: The View From/Niantic;
Puppies and Prisoners: Lessons in Compassion

BYLINE: By CYNTHIA WOLFE BOYNTON 

 BODY:
THERE is no proof that prisoners who care for animals will one day carry that compassion onto the streets. But state corrections officials said that two female Labrador retrievers -- one yellow and one black -- living at the women's York Correctional Institution had made inmates happier, better behaved and, in some cases, willing to take on responsibilities for the first time.
The dogs arrived at the Niantic prison in January as 9-week-old puppies to take part in the Prison Pup Partnership. The program teaches inmates how to train dogs to turn lights on and off, open doors, retrieve objects and perform other tasks for people who are deaf or in wheelchairs. It is sponsored by the National Education for Assistance Dog Services, or Neads, a nonprofit group based in Massachusetts, and has been running for two years in a handful of other prisons in Massachusetts and Maine. 
 "Having dogs around is as great as having kids around," said Mike Burns, unit manager at York. "They make everyone friendlier and the atmosphere a lot nicer. And this is a wonderful program because everyone benefits: first, all those involved with taking care of the dogs, and then the disabled people who get them."
And at York, he said, everyone wants to take part. Inmates in the home economics department have made beds and blankets not just for their dogs, Pride and Doc, but also to send on to other dogs in the Neads program. Culinary arts workers bake fresh dog biscuits daily.
Prison staff members are also involved, Mr. Burns said. He and others often volunteer to take the dogs to the veterinarian or to dog-sit. "These two dogs have made York a different place," he said.
York is the first Connecticut prison to take part in the program. But another Prison Pup Partnership could be set up this year at the Brooklyn Correctional Institution, said Pamela Richards, the warden who oversees these and four other state prisons.
York officials used donations from residents and local kennel clubs to buy the dogs for $500 each from Guiding Eyes for the Blind, a New York breeder, and to pay for food, veterinary care and other supplies.
Prisoners and puppies may seem like an odd match, said Sheila O'Brien, the Neads executive director. At one time, even she was skeptical of the mix. But she said the program had been a success since the first Prison Pup Partnership was established in 1998 at the men's North Central Correctional Institution in Gardner, Mass. The program has relieved the need for foster families to take in puppies and train them, a constant problem since Neads was established in 1976.
Ms. O'Brien said the participation of prisons had cut the Neads waiting list for trained dogs from five years to one. "It's rare to have a partnership where everyone is happy, but everyone benefits from this."
The intense contact dogs receive from inmates has also reduced the normal 18-month training program to a year, said Capt. Rhom Saunders, a York unit manager. Each dog has one inmate as her trainer, but most of the 90 women who live in the minimum-security housing unit with Doc and Pride help walk and play with them.
Mr. Saunders said dogs did not get that level of attention on the outside. "If you're a Neads volunteer in the community," he said, "you probably work full time, have kids who need to be driven to soccer practice and can't be with the dogs more than a few hours a day at best. These women really don't have anything to do but care for the dogs. They give constant attention."
Carol, 47, and Donna, 45, are the York prisoners responsible for the puppies. Both are convicted murderers and have been at York for more than a decade. Donna has served 17 years of a life sentence, and Carol 16 years of a 35-year sentence. The prison would not allow the inmates' full names to be used, because of a state policy intended to protect victims who may feel a prisoner is being glorified.
Carol and Donna applied to be trainers, and Mr. Saunders said they were chosen because of their enthusiasm and good conduct records.
"The women training these dogs are doing something really right," said Ray Cogeshall, a counselor supervisor and unit manager at the prison. "But we can't forget that to get here, they broke the law. They did something really wrong."
The dogs sleep in cages in the women's prison cells, and then follow them throughout their daily routines, which include classes, chores and on-site work responsibilities. "Some people think it's easy to be in prison because we have no bills, no kids to care for," Donna said. "That may be true. But we also don't have anyone to love. These dogs give us unconditional love."
Karen Smith, 48, of East Haven, received a dog through the Neads program (though not through the prison partnership) three and a half years ago. Confined to a wheelchair because of severe multiple sclerosis, she relies on Dakota, a golden retriever, to pick up dropped objects, pull her wheelchair through grocery stores and brace her as she slides onto the couch or into bed at night.
"This dog allows me to be independent and, in many ways, has opened me up socially," Ms. Smith said. "When I'm with Dakota, people notice her first, not my wheelchair. And that makes them more comfortable around me.
Paul Ruane, deputy superintendent of the prison in Gardner, Mass., which has had the Prison Pups Partnership the longest, stressed the importance of such restorative justice programs.
"Prisons aren't the best places to be," Mr. Ruane said. "No one wants to be there. Everyone's antsy. And you don't get a lot of psychological rewards from planting flowers, or picking up trash, that will help you reintegrate into society. But the dogs teach caring and compassion. They give inmates someone to care about, and get them out of the 'poor me' syndrome. That's a big deal."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Pam Richards, left, a Connecticut prison warden, with Carol, an inmate, and puppies at the York Correctional Institute. Inset and below, the inmates train the dogs. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YORK CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTE (NIANTIC, CONN); NATIONAL EDUCATION FOR ASSISTANCE DOG SERVICES YORK CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION (93%); PRISON PUP PARTNERSHIP (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: YORK CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTE (NIANTIC, CONN); NATIONAL EDUCATION FOR ASSISTANCE DOG SERVICES

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; WOMEN; DOGS; HANDICAPPED DOGS (96%); PRISONS (90%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); PET FOODS (78%); VETERINARY SERVICES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DISABLED PERSONS (74%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); DEAFNESS (69%); WOUND CARE (67%); 

PERSON: BOYNTON, CYNTHIA WOLFE

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



406 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2812 words

HEADLINE: Bloustein Makes, Policymakers Take;
Those Who Make Decisions Affecting Public Life in the State Rely on the Institute at Rutgers and Its Well-Known Dean

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK

 BODY:
THE census takers haven't even gone home yet, and already James W. Hughes is writing about what they will find. As the megabytes from the census bureau spill in next year, he will write again. And again. "I'll be in my demographic sandbox," he said.
From his desk at Rutgers, Mr. Hughes will draw the outlines, as he has for a quarter-century, of the state's state of being: where the people live and what they live in, where the jobs are and where the money goes. But while Mr. Hughes is much cited as the man mostly likely to know what 8.2 million New Jerseyans are doing, he is not working on this by himself. As dean of the university's Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy, he presides over a knowledge factory for the state, or at least for the policy wonks within. 
 The researchers here are studying, among other things, curriculums in poor school districts, job training for the long-term unemployed, municipal tax-collection methods and the effect of abandoned factories on neighborhoods. They are, in sum, constantly evaluating the public life of New Jersey, and doing so for the vast, vague constellation of people called policymakers.
Legislators, state and municipal officials and policy organizations depend on the Bloustein school's array of publications from the highly general, like the Legislative District Data Book, to the highly specific, like a report called "The Potential Impacts of Revaluation on Property Tax Burdens in Newark."
State agencies contract with the school for research. Municipal officials take its training programs. Legislators consult its faculty members, the dean foremost among them. And all of them hire its graduates.
"It's unusual to get the combination that we have with Hughes and the Bloustein school; New Jersey is very fortunate," said Peter Francese, who was the publisher of American Demographics magazine when Mr. Hughes was a contributing editor.
"Hughes takes very, very seriously the idea that Rutgers is a state institution," Mr. Francese added. "Not everyone takes it that seriously. But I bet he wakes up each morning and says, What can we do for New Jersey? What intellectual power can we bring to bear on the problems here?"
So while the Woodrow Wilson school at Princeton looks at The Hague, the Bloustein school looks at Paterson and Vineland.
"We like mucking around," said Cliff Zukin, chairman of the public policy department and director of the Star-Ledger/Eagleton Poll. "It gives us a thrill to write a research paper that somebody uses. We like to send students out to make a contribution to the state."
Bari Anhalt Erlichson, who teaches education policy at Rutgers, said that when she was finishing her Ph.D. in political science at Stanford University three years ago, she yearned for "real-world circumstances" and was not even sure she wanted to stay in academia. Now at work on her second report of court-ordered reforms in school administration, Ms. Erlichson is visiting and interviewing at dozens of schools.
"It's very difficult to come across these positions," she said. "It requires a strong dean and a strong leader who can evangelize the importance of real-world work."
While the Bloustein school (named for the late university president) is fastidiously, academically nonpartisan, it has plenty of political connections. Jim Florio, probably the state's best-known Democrat, is a faculty member. Raymond H. Bateman, the former Senate president and a Republican, has had an office at the school. Others are in frequently for conferences and guest teaching.
Rutgers has always been of interest and use to politicians, of course, and the Eagleton Institute of Politics has been an academic center. But the Bloustein school, founded in 1992 as an umbrella for the university's graduate programs in public policy (read: government) and urban planning, is more public service than political science.
Academically, the school splays, which many say is the point. In the last four years, it has spread out some more, adding research centers in labor, transportation and urban redevelopment. In that time, the research staff has doubled, to 67.
"I'm not aware of any other school that has the comprehensive mix of activities and resources," said Henry A. Coleman, an economist who heads the school's oldest research organization, the Center for Government Services. "It's a wonderful conglomeration."
The lobbying, recruiting and organizing has fallen largely to Mr. Hughes, the dean since 1995. No one else could know the place so well.
The joke around the faculty, Mr. Coleman said, is that "Jim Hughes has been here since high school." That is not true; he was away for two years, in the Army. But he did enroll at Rutgers in 1961, as an engineering student, and returned immediately after his Army service. Not knowing exactly what he wanted to do, he entered in the new graduate program in city planning, earning his Ph.D. in 1971. He then joined the faculty.
Mr. Hughes, with his inventory of facts and his dry humor, is a kind of inescapable resource in New Jersey, the man journalists turn to for a trenchant comment on unemployment rates, consumption figures, school spending or just about anything else related to the state. When Ms. Erlichson went house-hunting on a recent weekend, the real-estate agent volunteered, "Oh, I just saw your dean quoted in the paper."
But he is also consulted and cited outside the jurisdiction. In the last year, for example, in the Cleveland Plain Dealer (on the subject of Newark's economy), the Christian Science Monitor (the coming bulge in the elderly population), the Chicago Daily Herald (downtown retailers), the Cincinnati Enquirer (the maturation of suburbs) and on CNN (the job market for new college graduates).
Early in his career, Mr. Hughes wrote about national housing trends. But that, he said, leads to messy inquiries about population shifts, incomes, jobs, transportation and the structure of the American economy, all of which he happily took on.
With his colleague George Sternlieb, he started the Rutgers Regional Report, a series of papers tracking the region's economy; when Mr. Sternlieb retired, Joseph J. Seneca, a Rutgers economist, replaced him.
As the audience grew, Mr. Hughes became known as a forecaster of everything from the emergence of high-tech corridors to homebuyers' demand for fireplaces. He also became an official explainer of the waves of people outward and westward from New York -- which, he explains, is just one ripple in the nation's most colossal trend: "All we've been trying to do is correct for a fundamental navigation error by the Pilgrims, who were aiming for Santa Monica."
While this wisdom lends itself to popular consumption, it takes such titles as "Commercial Office Space Overhangs" -- in which, in 1993, he and Mr. Seneca reported the dramatic shift from Manhattan to North Jersey. (Fact: 82 percent of all the rental office space ever built in New Jersey had gone up after 1980.)
It was a theme set out in "The Suburban Employment Perimeter," in which the authors noted that "the invasion of large-scale post-industrial corporate settlements and their service retinues" had established the sites for economic recovery in the 1990's.
The latest report, "The Emerging Wealth Belt," traced the shift of population and jobs from the state's north to its center. The next report, scheduled for publication next month, anticipates the 2000 census findings.
The topics, Mr. Hughes said, present themselves: "We get a lot of calls from legislators, and you'd sense there was a need for study in one area. We know what the next hot policy issue is."
He and Mr. Seneca tell them every year, too, as opening speakers for the legislative budget hearings. Before the Assembly Budget Committee last month, Mr. Hughes spoke of the "Great Trans-Millenial Economic Expansion," which he predicted would slow a bit next year.
Assemblyman Leonard Lance, the budget committee chairman, said of the presentations: "They are indeed performers. But behind the wit, which I certainly enjoy, is very valuable information.
MR. FRANCESE, who spent more than two decades in Ithaca, N.Y., said: "I cannot imagine anyone from the State University of New York doing that. They've not got the kind of vision about the future, and the powers of analysis and the credibility."
Whitman administration officials call, too. Shirley M. Bishop, the executive director of the state Council on Affordable Housing and a former student of Mr. Hughes's, said, "I can pick up the phone and call Dean Hughes and he is readily available to give me insights and information."
Ms. Bishop said other faculty members and alumni were also prime contacts.
"Other institutions are not sourced the way Bloustein is," she said. "The quality of the faculty is exceptional."
The school has always helped state and local officials in more systematic fashion, usually through the Center for Government Services, a kind of think tank for school finance, property taxation, reapportionment and similar issues. The center also trains hundreds of municipal officials.
And now government agencies contract with the school's Center for Government Services and its three newer research centers, focusing on work force issues, transportation and brownfields and neighborhood redevelopment.
"Those are the big three issues for the state of New Jersey," said Carl E. Van Horn, the director of the John J. Heldrich Center for Work Force Development. "Always have been and always will be."
Mr. Van Horn said the only other state university taking a comparable role was the University of Wisconsin, long known for its research on state issues. He said New Jersey's need for something like it was impressed upon him while he was on leave from the Rutgers faculty and serving as Governor Florio's policy director, before the Bloustein school was founded.
"I felt disadvantaged, if you will, not having information at hand to advise the governor," he said. "I had Wisconsin envy."
The work force center does do research on a national scale, including a survey of American workers on issues like job security and the information economy that is reported periodically in a publication called Work Trends.
But the center has many state-level projects; recently, for example, it evaluated the state's program for people who have exhausted unemployment benefits.
The study cost the state $300,000, while private consultants probably would have charged $1 million, Mr. Van Horn said. "We already have the computer facilities here at Rutgers," he said, "and very bright Ph.D. students who are not making $80,000 a year."
The Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center at the school also has a mix of national, regional and state research projects. For its director, Mr. Hughes recruited Louis Gambaccini, who as transportation commissioner in the 1970's engineered the creation of New Jersey Transit.
And the new National Center for Neighborhood and Brownfields Redevelopment is, despite its name, an outgrowth of a proposal to do more research in New Jersey.
Michael Greenberg, the center's director and an expert in urban environmental health, said he had been drawn away by his work on nuclear and chemical weapons sites -- two kinds, he noted, that New Jersey does not have -- and wanted to pull together research on neighborhoods suffering environmental and economic damage.
As Mr. Greenberg recalled, "I sat down with Jim Hughes and Jim Florio and some other people and said, 'All this time I've been working on contamination and public health problems everywhere but in my own state. I'd like to set up some kind of research organization and take things I've done in Colorado, Indiana, Alabama, and apply them to New Jersey.'
"The two Jims helped me figure out how to do it."
The word often used for the research centers is "entrepreneurial": they need grants and contracts and thus, whether as a matter of money or academic pride, they need to market their work.
The school is good at that, said John Shure, president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a liberal think tank in Trenton. "They're aggressive in finding audiences," Mr. Shure said. "I think it's a further sign of New Jersey becoming an entity that people identify with and think of as their home."
RESEARCH in state and local issues is not new to state universities, of course. But it is still the first new idea for land-grant institutions since the late 19th century, when they set up agricultural research stations. (And Rutgers extension service agents in all 21 counties can still tell you how to grow bigger tomatoes.)
Like all land-grant schools, Rutgers has to balance competing demands: to serve the state and to cultivate a larger reputation.
"If you adhere too much to what the traditional academics want, you're not serving the function of a public policy school in that youre not being of service to a community," Ms. Erlichson, the public policy professor, said. "If you're only interested in service to the community, then the academic world shuns you."
Tom Dalessio, a policy adviser in the Governor's Office of Policy and Planning, and a member of the university's board of trustees, said: "There's a natural inclination among faculty to want to be renowned and to study national and international issues. It's symptomatic of other problems in New Jersey. We always treat ourselves as second best."
Mr. Dalessio, conceding some bias as a trustee and an alumnus, said the Bloustein school's reputation was growing fast.
"The urban planning program has long been one of the top five," he said. "I imagine that in the next 5 or 10 years, when it comes to the study of public policy, people will mention Bloustein in the same breath as Wilson and the Kennedy School."
Whether that comes to pass or not, faculty members say New Jersey is nothing if not good material: court-ordered school finance and housing plans, urban decay and suburban sprawl, tax problems, a roaring new economy and 566 municipalities trying to govern.
"I was in California, which is a very exciting policy arena," Ms. Erlichson said. "Coming here and finding New Jersey is in many ways more interesting is a surprise."
 
The Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy
 
Location: Civic Square, Rutgers University, New Brunswick
Founded: 1992
Enrollment: approximately 300
Dean: James W. Hughes
Faculty: 44
Support and research staff: 67
Degree programs: undergraduate degrees in urban studies and public health; 15 graduate programs, including public policy, city and regional planning, and programs offering joint degrees in law and public health.
Research centers: The John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development, the Center for Government Services, the National Center for Neighborhood and Brownfields Redevelopment, the Voorhees Transportation Center.
Sample of publications: The New Jersey Legislative District Data Book, Rutgers Regional Report, School District Achievement Index, Rankings of Municipalities, Work Trends.
Budget: $3 million in state funds; $13 million in grants, contracts and continuing education tuition.
 
If You're Going to Be Quoted . . .
 
James W. Hughes, dean of the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy, has to be one of the most most quoted people in New Jersey. That's because he knows a lot. It is also because he is more quotable than, say, the average legislator or cabinet member. Here is a sample of recent pronouncements.
 
On baby boomers: "Baby boomers have moved from Hondas to SUV's, a move perhaps in parallel to their maturing derrieres."
 
On the baby boomers' vehicles: "We have $1.70 gasoline. Justice has been served."
 
On the enduring importance of location: "The dot-com people, who are spearheading the Internet revolution, cluster ever deeper into Silicon Valley and Route 128 around Boston, even while their technology supposedly lessens the relevance of place."
 
On the current economic expansion: "More New Jerseyans believe they were abducted by aliens than believe we have eclipsed the 1980's."
 
On the politics of development: "In 1992 the Clinton campaign was famous for saying, 'It's the economy, stupid.' But with the economy doing so well, the next campaign slogan might better be, 'It's the sprawl, stupid.' "
 
On the Bloustein school's building: "A countercyclical capital infrastructure investment project that was instigated in the depths of the last recession."
 
On his career: "I have had a Forrest Gump career trajectory. Things just came up."
 
On demography in general: "You really can predict the outlines of the future."
 
On his own forecasting: "We've predicted all kinds of things that proceeded not to happen."
 LAURA MANSNERUS
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, presides over a state knowledge factory, providing research for state agencies, training municipal officials and consulting with legislators. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Carl E. Van Horn, director of the John J. Heldrich Center for Work Force Development, once Jim Florio's policy director.; Cliff Zukin, public policy department chief and Star-Ledger/Eagleton Poll director.; Henry A. Coleman, an economist who heads the school's oldest research organization, the Center for Government Services. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); Work by the students at the Edward J. Bloustein School helps it produce studies for far less than private consultants would charge. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times); Bari Anhalt Erlichson, who is studying school-administration reform, called James W. Hughes, left, "a strong dean and a strong leader" who emphasizes "real-world work." (Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY; BLOUSTEIN, EDWARD J, SCHOOL OF PLANNING AND PUBLIC POLICY AMERICAN DEMOGRAPHICS MAGAZINE (53%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY; BLOUSTEIN, EDWARD J, SCHOOL OF PLANNING AND PUBLIC POLICY RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CENSUS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CENSUS (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); CURRICULA (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TRENDS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: HUGHES, JAMES W; MANSNERUS, LAURA EDWARD J BLOUSTEIN (92%); JAMES W HUGHES (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



407 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2839 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property;
In Manhattan, a Scattering of New Hotels

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
THE last few years have been good for New York City hotels. Occupancy rates have been consistently near or over 80 percent, compared to 63 to 65 percent for the rest of the country. Room rates have been rising, with the cost of a night in the city last year averaging $213 before taxes according to Ernst & Young, the accounting and consulting firm.
Because of the strong business, developers have found lenders willing to finance new hotels. As a result, from 3,200 to 4,000 new hotel rooms are set to open in Manhattan this year. 
 "This is the largest number of new hotel rooms to open in the city as long as I have been keeping a list, which is back to 1985," said John A. Fox, a senior vice president of PKF Consulting, a hospitality specialist.
The projects -- some new construction, some the renovation of existing buildings -- are spread across Manhattan, from the southern tip of the island to the Upper West Side, rather than concentrated in the traditional Midtown and downtown business districts. Some real estate executives said this is a reflection of how Internet startups and related companies have rejected the high rents and perceived stuffiness of traditional business centers for places like the Flatiron District and Chelsea.
With a base of about 60,000 rooms already available, the influx of new rooms is expected to trim occupancy rates only slightly. And the new rooms may provide some good news for travelers by limiting the rise in room rates.
"The effect will be to probably reduce the occupancy rate by one half to a full percentage point and limit room-rate increases to $10 to $15 a night in calendar 2000," Mr. Fox said. Nevertheless, New York will remain a pricey location compared to the rest of the nation, where the average daily rate is estimated at $81 a night.
Other analysts argue that additional hotel rooms cannot be added fast enough. "The New York hotel market is not one of the largest in the nation," said Sean Hennessey, manager of the New York hospitality practice for PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm. "Las Vegas and Orlando have about 120,000 rooms. It could be that we are underserved rather than on the brink of a glut."
The new offerings include both the luxurious and the budget-minded: the return of the Ritz-Carlton brand to Manhattan after an absence of two years, the advent of the Regent brand -- with a basic room rate of $545 a night -- and the arrival of a Red Roof Inn, with rates starting at $89 a night.
The single biggest hotel developer this year is Bruce C. Ratner, the president of Forest City Ratner Companies, which plans to open more than 900 rooms in hotels attached to entertainment and retail complexes in Battery Park City and Times Square.
The Embassy Suites Hotel in Battery Park City will have 463 rooms in a 383,000-square-foot complex facing North End Avenue that will also include a 16-screen, 4,000-seat Regal Cinema, a 20,000-square-foot sports club and several restaurants and stores, including a 6,500-square-foot Kinko's.
The 444-room Hilton hotel on 42nd Street has been built atop a 335,000-square-foot development that is to include a 25-screen AMC Entertainment motion picture theater, Madame Tussaud's Wax Museum, an HMV music store and assorted restaurants and stores. Both Ratner hotels are expected to open this spring.
Mr. Ratner said the addition of the entertainment, food and other retail uses to the two projects improved the economics of the hotels to the point where he could obtain financing.
Emanuel Stern, the president of Hartz Mountain Industries, which operates the SoHo Grand hotel and is due to open the 203-room TriBeCa Grand, at Avenue of the Americas and Walker Street, next month, said that finding financing for hotel projects is difficult.
"Hotels are the last asset class the lenders warm up to and the first one they go cold on," Mr. Stern said. "You can get hotel financing for about 18 to 24 months in any 10-year period."
Mr. Ratner said that when he took over the Battery Park City project three years ago, the hotel business was rebounding from a sluggish time in the early 90's and financiers were still skittish. "This is a good example of mixed-use development," he said. "Another developer had this site and could not make it work. When we took it over we doubled the amount of retail to absorb more of the cost of the land and taxes."
Since retailers typically pay a far higher rent per square foot than do other tenants, devoting the lower floors of the two projects to stores, restaurants and movies made the projects bankable, he said.
In addition, he said, putting entertainment and retail stores in the same building as the hotel improves the quality of a visit to New York.
"When people come to New York they don't want to just stay at a hotel," Mr. Ratner said. "Putting the retail and the entertainment in direct proximity to the hotel benefits both." Most of the rooms in the Embassy Suites open to a central atrium, eliminating the long, gloomy corridors common in large hotels. One wall of the atrium is decorated by what the company said is New York's largest painting, an 80-foot-high by 130-foot-wide work by Sol LeWitt titled "Loopy Doopy (Blue and Purple)."
At the 42nd and 41st Street entrances for the Hilton, which is between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, there will be sculptures by Tom Otterness of figures trying to topple clocks from the marquees. Original art, sculpture and historic photographs will be in the public spaces and guest rooms of both hotels. The value of the art commissioned and purchased for the two hotels is put at $4 million by the Public Art Fund, Forest City Ratner and Hilton Hotels, which were partners in the art program.
Some of the new hotels opening are much smaller than the Embassy Suites, the Hilton and the Sofitel -- the other big, newly constructed hotel, which is to open in June on West 44th Street, between Fifth Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas, with 398 rooms. Some emphasize a theme to differentiate them from hotels that simply offer a room for the night.
Few will be more highly themed than the Library, which is due to open with 60 rooms by the end of May. It is being developed by Henry Kallan, who recently opened a similar theme hotel, Giraffe, at Park Avenue and 26th Street. He also owns the Casablanca Hotel on 43rd Street just off Times Square.
The Giraffe incorporates balconies in many of its guest rooms to emphasize a European style. The Library, at Madison Avenue and 41st Street, is named for its proximity to the New York Public Library at Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street.
THE Library will have a restaurant on the first floor and a library on the second. The library theme will be carried throughout the renovated office building, with room numbers using the Dewey decimal system and a "library card" instead of a room key.
Mr. Kallan said that each floor would have a different subject, such as social science, geography or Slavic languages. The rooms themselves will be stocked with books on the theme subject.
"If you are interested in a subject, you can book a room and read up on it," said Mr. Kallan, who added that he expects to attract guests from the publishing, fashion and cosmetics industries. He said he was exploring the possibility of staging special events with literary trappings, including one with a book-of-the-month theme.
Mr. Kallan said he would try to capitalize on the hotel's location a block from Grand Central Terminal by developing the 14th floor as a kind of clubhouse. Suburban spouses who wanted to come into the city early to shop before meeting a working spouse for dinner or a show would have a place to rest and store packages and would be entitled to the corporate rate if they decided to stay the night.
Rates at the Library are to range from $245 to $325 a night, with the corporate discount lowering that to $195 to $225, Mr. Kallan said.
Across 41st Street, Morris Moinian is preparing to open the Dylan Hotel in late June or early July. Housed in a building that was once home to the Chemists Club, the 108-room hotel is the product of a complete renovation that added four stories to the existing 10-story structure.
Mr. Moinian, who owns Jordan, a woman's fashion company, and the 300-room Wyndham Sugar Bay Hotel in St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, said he was convinced that there is a place for boutique hotels that can attract people who prefer not to stay at mass-market properties, such as the big hotels operated by Hilton and Marriott.
"I think it will be attractive to creative people from the fashion and advertising industries who want a small hotel but one that is business-friendly as well," he said.
Mr. Moinian said he had spent $30 million to renovate the 1903 building, whose exterior is designed in the Beaux-Arts style. Of that, more than $1 million was devoted to restoring the facade, ornate plasterwork and other architectural details. The former ballroom, with its six-foot stone fireplace and 20-foot ceilings, is being converted to a restaurant that is being called, in deference to the building's origins, Rx.
"There was a lot of mahogany and stained glass, and we preserved as much as we could," he said.
Despite this sensitivity to the past, the guest rooms are fully wired for high-speed Internet access, with fax capability and two or three telephones in each room. There are two conference rooms on the third floor that can be combined to seat up to 75 people, and a two-bedroom grand suite with a 2,000-square-foot balcony. Room rates at Dylan will range from $295 to $395, with suites priced higher.
Mr. Moinian said he believed there were still opportunities to develop boutique hotels in Manhattan neighborhoods that were largely neglected manufacturing areas but that have been rejuvenated as the shortage of office space in traditional locations has brought an influx of new tenants from Internet and related businesses.
Right now, he said, he is looking in Chelsea for a suitable property. "Chelsea appears to be a continuation of SoHo," he said.
Mr. Stern of Hartz Mountain said the key to putting a hotel in a nontraditional area was that the area have a vibrant business community in addition to attractive living and trendy retail spaces. "Nontraditional businesses are spreading into areas like SoHo and TriBeCa," he said, "and they will generate demand for hotel rooms."
The downtown business district is also attracting hotel development. In addition to the Embassy Suites project, a high-tech Holiday Inn Wall Street opened last year at 15 Gold Street, and a Ritz-Carlton is being built on Battery Place near the southern tip of Manhattan.
The 311-room hotel at Battery Place is part of a mixed-use project being developed by Millennium Partners, which is also renovating the old St. Moritz Hotel, at Central Park South and Avenue of the Americas. When complete late next year, the former St. Moritz will also be branded a Ritz-Carlton and be managed by the company, which is a subsidiary of Marriott International. Twelve condominium units, each a full floor of the building, will also be sold.
The Battery Park project will also include 120 condominium units in addition to the hotel rooms. Matthew Hall, an executive with Millennium, said that the sale of the condominiums would improve the economics of the $175 million project. "Revenues from condominium sales will help cover infrastructure costs," he said. "It helps spread the risk and provides a different source of income."
The Regent Hotel, in the column-encrusted building at 55 Wall Street, has gradually been opening since last December, and executives expect it to be fully ready for business by May 1. (Hotel developers say that these so-called soft openings, in which only a few floors are ready to receive guests, are a way of getting some cash flowing early and are a means of training staff.)
The 156-year-old building, which has been home to a stock exchange and a customs house and had been the headquarters of National City Bank, has undergone an $80 million renovation and has 144 guest rooms plus a restaurant and lounge. Aimed at affluent business travelers -- presumably visiting their investment bankers -- the rooms have the typical array of technology features, such as Internet connections and multiple telephone lines for voice mail and fax.
A spokeswoman for the hotel said that no decision had been made about what to do with the dozen jail cells that are a legacy of the building's use as a Federal building during the draft riots of the Civil War. They are being used as storerooms, the spokeswoman said, but some thought is being given to converting them to wine cellars or a cigar bar.
Suites at the Regent can cost as much as $1,600 a night, but there are places to stay in Manhattan that do not require a bank loan.
Apple Core Hotels is converting an office building at 6 West 32nd Street to a 172-room Red Roof Inn, that brand's first entry into Manhattan. It is expected to open in early May, with room rates ranging from $89 to $199 a night.
Vijay Dandapani, Apple Core's chief operating officer, said the Red Roof Inn project, like the company's other four hotels in Manhattan -- the brands include Best Western and Quality Inn -- is focusing on hotel basics rather then themes.
"Most customers want a nice lodging experience," he said. "They want a comfortable bed and a quiet room."
He said that the 17-story former office building had a 50-by-80-foot footprint that made it "ideal for conversion." And Apple Core knew something about the location. It operates a Best Western across the street, at 17 West 32nd.
The hotel is aimed at travelers on a budget, but guests will find amenities not always available at lower-priced hotels. The Red Roof will have an exercise room, a meeting room and a business center with computing, copying and fax facilities.
Another facility aimed at budget travelers has been announced by Ian Schrager, a hotel developer associated with upscale, trendy projects, who has said he plans to convert the 960-room Henry Hudson Hotel on West 57th Street to a hotel with rates starting at $75 a night.
Meanwhile, another group is taking aim at the budget traveler by converting once-dowdy single-room-occupancy hotels in good locations to transient lodgings with room rates as low as $75 a night.
THE Citylife Hotel Group has converted the old Allerton House at 57th Street and Lexington Avenue into Habitat, which has been marketed mostly to European tourists. The hotel is on a popular shopping street, and the first floor is to house a Kenneth Cole fashion store, with the hotel's lobby on the second floor.
The old Broadway American hotel at 77th Street and Broadway in the heart of the Upper West Side has been transformed by Citylife into On The Ave (for avenue, although Broadway is not an avenue).
And by this summer, the former Martha Washington Hotel at 30 East 30th Street is to be be relaunched by Citylife as Thirty Thirty. There will be a total of about 1,100 rooms in the three hotels, but not all will be available for transient rental because some permanent residents remain. In each case all the rooms have been renovated and equipped with new furnishings and linens. Amenities include alarm clocks, color television sets, Internet access and free continental breakfast in the lobby.
"Our concept was to be the low-cost provider," said Kevin Maloney, a partner in Citylife. Mr. Maloney said that each property is distinctive and intended to appeal to different segments of the budget market.
At On The Ave, where the basic rate is $155 a night, the stress is proximity to the West Side's cultural institutions, such as the American Museum of Natural History, the Rose Center for Earth and Space and Lincoln Center, as well as the area's restaurants.
At Habitat the emphasis is on Midtown, including Rockefeller Center, St. Patrick's Cathedral and the Disney Store. There is one other detail at Habitat -- to get the $75 rate you have to accept a room with the toilet and shower down the hall and in separate rooms. For a room with an attached bath, the rate is $105 for a single and $125 for a double.
Mr. Maloney said the baths down the hall had been an obstacle to European tour groups, particularly those from Scandinavia. He said he hoped to encourage repeat business by showing that budget lodgings can be acceptable. "The idea is if they come and stay in the city and feel they have not been ripped off they will come back," he said.
Budget travelers may be tight with a dollar, but that does not mean they are technically unsophisticated.
Mr. Maloney said Citylife had been focusing most of its marketing efforts on the Internet over the last few months, and that it seems to be paying off.
"Twenty to 25 percent of our bookings are coming directly through the Internet," he said. "People in the budget range shop the Internet. We are getting over 200,000 hits on our site a month."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruce C. Ratner at the Embassy Suites Hotel at Battery Park City. Room entrances face an atrium dominated by the 80-by-130-foot "Loopy Doopy (Blue and Purple)" by Sol LeWitt. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); The Sofitel Hotel, left, is to open in June on West 44th Street, between Fifth Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas, with 398 rooms. (Edwine Seymour for The New York Times); The hotelier Ian Schrager has announced plans to convert the 960-room Henry Hudson Hotel, right, on West 57th to a budget hotel with rates as low as $75. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. 6); (John Papasian/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart/Map: "Checking In"
With occupancy rates high and room rates rising, more than 3,000 new hotel rooms will be opening in various parts of Manhattan this year, adding to the city's existing stock of about 60,000. These are among the major projects.
 
On The Ave: 251 rooms
The Hudson: 960 rooms
Ritz-Carlton: 300 rooms
Habitat Hotel: 300 rooms
Madison Equities: 562 rooms
The Muse: 200 rooms
Sofitel: 398 rooms
Westin E-Walk: 857 rooms
Hilton: 444 rooms
The Library: 60 rooms
Dylan Hotel: 108 rooms
Bryant Park Hotel: 130 rooms
Red Roof Inn: 172 rooms
Thirty Thirty: 274 rooms
W Hotel: 270 rooms
Greenwich Village Hotel: 195 rooms
60 Thompson Street: 100 rooms
TriBeCa Grand: 203 rooms
Embassy Suites: 463 rooms
Crowne Plaza: 300 rooms
Regent Hotel: 144 rooms
Ritz-Carlton: 311 rooms
 
(Source: PricewaterhouseCoopers)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (80%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: RATNER COS (80%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; MANHATTAN (NYC); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; INDUSTRY PROFILES LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); AVERAGE DAILY ROOM RATES (78%); ACCOUNTING (76%); BUDGETS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); INTERNET & WWW (52%); STARTUPS (52%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN BRUCE C RATNER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



408 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 7; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
Growing a Business in Ethanol

BYLINE: By LISA SUHAY 

 BODY:
New Jersey's farmers are considering feeding their corn into gas tanks instead of chickens.
The reason is that the federal government is expected to mandate ethanol in gasoline to reduce automobile emissions. 
 Making ethanol requires corn, which is already growing on more than half the state's farmland, and a factory to distill it. It is the factory that is lacking, and a farmers' organization is pushing its members to build one.
A big impetus came last month when the Environmental Protection Agency announced its decision to phase out the use of methyl tertiary butyl ether, or M.T.B.E., a gasoline additive that has been linked to drinking water contamination and cancer in animals.
The agency is expected to require "safe biofuel" additions, or oxygenates, which add oxygen to fuel and reduce pollution in exhaust.
"That makes ethanol the only commercially available alternative," said John Urbanchuk, executive vice president of A.U.A. Consultants of Moorestown, which was hired last summer by the New Jersey Farm Bureau, a trade organization, to do an economic feasibility study on building an ethanol distillery in New Jersey.
"If you are looking for options for increasing farmers' income, then this is one way to go," Mr. Urbanchuk said.
"There is a lot of attention to ethanol production around the country. Corn is the largest grain crop in New Jersey. In a normal year state farmers will produce approximately nine million bushels of corn, not the highest in the nation by far, but enough to make an ethanol plant here a viable option."
Corn from New Jersey is shipped mainly to Maryland and Delaware for chicken feed, according John Rigolizzo, a corn farmer and president of the New Jersey Farm Bureau, in Trenton.
Farmers pay 25 to 50 cents a bushel in transportation costs to ship a crop that fetches only $1.25 a bushel; sales for ethanol would bring in about 15 to 25 cents more per bushel, according to the A.U.A. study.
The possibilty of building an ethanol factory has fueled the imagination of a growing number of farmers who are willing to gamble a percentage of their corn crop and cash on using their grain to make the fuel additive.
At the seven meetings held by the Farm Bureau this month, attendance has gone from a dozen farmers to better than 150 at one meeting.
Sites that have been mentioned include the Burlington County landfill in Mansfield and a spot in Salem County near the Delaware River port there.
"The Farm Bureau is always looking for a way for farmers to make more money," Mr. Rigolizzo said.
"If the E.P.A. rules in favor of using oxygenates, then this is going to take off. There'll be a demand. If they rule against, then this is all scrapped. We believe they are going in this direction, and this is an opportunity for New Jersey to not only take a leadership role, but to help farmers."
According to Mr. Rigolizzo, it would cost about $16 million to build an average-size plant to produce 10 million to 15 million gallons of ethanol a year. About 30 percent of that cost would come from farmers.
"We will be looking to raise about $3 million to $4 million from farmers and the rest from lending institutions and grants," Mr. Rigolizzo said.
The Farm Bureau is looking for investments from about 400 farmers, who would form a co-op. A share in the plant would cost $12,500; they would also be asked to sell corn to the plant at market prices.
According to Transportation Department statistics for 1997, the most recent available, New Jersey now uses about 12.5 million gallons of ethanol a year, and the country uses more than 15 billion gallons blended with gasoline. There are 55 ethanol distilleries in 20 states.
The American Coalition for Ethanol, in Sioux Falls, S.D., touts its value to farmers. Its Web site says, "The demand for grain created by ethanol production increases net farm income more than $12 billion annually."
Mr. Rigolizzo calls the response by New Jersey farmers "terrific so far."
"Even the most skeptical farmers are asking for 5 and 10 shares," he said. "They're excited by this idea, and it takes a lot to get us excited about the future."
Richard Melchert, a corn farmer and owner of Richview Farms in Elmer, in Salem County, said:
"I think I am in favor of the plant. When I first went to meetings last year, the numbers didn't really jump off the page at you. Then I started seeing articles about it in Farm Journal magazine and other places and started thinking this could be the answer.
"Now you go to the Farm Bureau meetings on ethanol and it's standing room only, so opinions have changed."
What got Mr. Rigolizzo to the same position was two years of investigation into the making of ethanol fuel from grains and visits to ethanol plants.
The plants "smell kind of like a nice wine," he said.
Mr. Rigolizzo also paid attention to the economic study by A.U.A., which was completed in December.
In addition to creating a market for corn farmers, Mr. Urbanchuk noted, a local ethanol market would keep corn farmers away from other markets like tomatoes and other garden crops.
"Keeping grain farmers out of other markets will keep prices for tomatoes from being driven down by the increase in crops," Mr. Rigolizzo said. "Guys scratching and scraping to find niche markets could keep their grain crops. That's good for everybody."
He added: "When the study came in, we got very excited about this idea. Next thing is a marketing study. We want all the ducks in a row on this. Then we start working on the state government for support. We have a lot of phones to ring."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Rigolizzo, head of the New Jersey Farm Bureau, at his corn farm in Berlin. Farmers hope distillates will expand their markets. (David Hunsinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FARM BUREAU LIFE CO (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHANOL; CORN; AGRICULTURE ETHANOL (94%); FUEL ADDITIVES (91%); BIOFUELS (91%); ALCOHOLS (91%); GASOLINE (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CORN FARMING (89%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (89%); POULTRY (89%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); BIOMASS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); WATER POLLUTION (74%); LANDFILLS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: SUHAY, LISA JOHN RIGOLIZZO (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



409 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 4; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
DeNiro Eyeing Yonkers

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
The actor Robert DeNiro and Harvey Weinstein of Miramax are negotiating with state officials to build a movie studio, which would include the world's tallest sound stage, in an old industrial complex on the Yonkers waterfront, Edward A. Sheeran, the city's director of economic development, said.
The studio would be built on a 16-acre site in the same building where "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" was filmed. That building has a 92-foot-high ceiling, the highest on the Eastern Seaboard, Mr. Sheeran said. 
 The city has agreed to reduce the assessed value of the property from about $9 million to about $2.5 million because of the cost of cleaning up industrial contaminants on the site, Mr. Sheeran said. It has also agreed to refund $700,000 to the current owner, British International Cable Corporation, a transportation and development company in London, with North American headquarters in West Nyack.
The estimated cost of a cleanup is about $7.5 million. The property, was used to produce copper cable since 1886, when the Habirshaw Cable and Wire Company owned it. It was occupied by Phelps Dodge from 1930 to 1984, when BICC bought it and operated its plant for 12 years.
Saying that the film industry was attracted to Yonkers because of its proximity to New York City, Mr. Sheeran added, "Not a week goes by without some movie scene being shot here." ELSA BRENNER
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (69%); SIC3315 STEEL WIREDRAWING & STEEL NAILS & SPIKES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

COMPANY: MIRAMAX CABLE CORP (69%); SA WIRE CO LTD (68%); BALFOUR BEATTY CIVIL ENGINEERING LTD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIRAMAX

GEOGRAPHIC: YONKERS (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); COPPER ROLLING DRAWING & ALLOYING (67%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (54%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, HARVEY; DENIRO, ROBERT; SHEERAN, EDWARD A; BRENNER, ELSA ROBERT DE NIRO (90%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



410 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Where the Shirts Are Scanned, Not Stuffed

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
IN 1996, David Fraser Walker and Martin Brighty were enjoying success as sales executives in the venerable British neckwear business when their company, Holliday & Brown, went through a downsizing and they found themselves out on the street.
Happily for them, though, the street wasn't just any street. It was Savile Row. 
 So there on an exclusive thoroughfare known for its purveyors of gentlemen's clothes and accessories, they set themselves up as Hunters Partnership Ltd., selling handmade silk ties in traditional English patterns from their cluttered second-story premises to retailers in Britain, Scandinavia and the United States. They also serve walk-in customers adventurous enough to enter by way of the centuries-old military tailor on the floor below.
This winter, thanks to an innovative application of the World Wide Web, they opened their Savile Row address to the world, enabling people continents away to make a personal, though virtual, call. While visiting, customers can even try on some ties.
On the Hunters interactive Web site --
Luxuryties.com -- customers can choose from 16 Savile Row ties and see how they go with particular shirts. They can select from 10 shirts offered on the Web site or paste shirts in from other online suppliers. Or they can even pull their favorite mauve number from the bottom drawer, photograph it, scan it in and then match ties online.
I recently tried the Web site and looked in on the operation, which for me is only a short Underground ride away. I found that there are advantages to shopping for ties on a machine that go beyond geographical convenience.
For one thing, a computer will not tell you that the print you have selected is you, absolutely you, 100 percent you. The screen just sits there, quiet and unobjecting, while you make awful choices. It emits no patronizing sighs when you make good ones.
Mr. Brighty, 33, floor man turned Web site owner, acknowledged the point. "Even if the approach is a gentle 'Can I help you please, sir?' people tend to freeze," he said. "We like to think this is offering a bit of Savile Row in a nonintimidating way."'
For those who are intimidated not by the street's doormen in swallow-tail coats and striped trousers but by technology itself, the Web site includes step-by-step instructions on how to find the right regimental stripe for, say, that lilac-checked shirt that goes to war with every design on the local tie rack.
The ties average $70, including delivery, less a 15 percent discount for those who buy three at once or who join the Hunters Tie Club, whose application is on the site.
I FOUND the site easy enough to navigate, and there is something about a Savile Row cravat that outshines the ones I get from airport tie-and-sock shops whenever spaghetti sauce ends up on my shirt front.
Clicking on a tie and dropping it in place beneath the collar has some of the drama of a long ball to the corner that either brings everybody home or falls ignominiously foul. Just inches separate the smash hit from the howler. But why bother to go on this virtual journey in the age of globalization?
"Gentlemen want to look English, and this is Englishness at its best," Mr. Brighty said. "If you want to look English, why not buy the real thing and be authentic?"
The site, up just two months, has recorded 86,000 hits, and it hasn't been written about widely until now.
Eager to attract young Web surfers who may have gone bare-necked all their lives, Mr. Walker, 37, is installing diagrams showing the three most common methods for tying a tie -- the four in hand, the half Windsor and the full Windsor.
When Internet Assist Ltd. of Kingston-upon-Thames designed the site, it believed the interactive shirt-and-tie matching to be the first of its kind. "We did lots of research and we found nothing like it," said Hannah Oppenheim, the firm's managing director.
Checking out the Hunters line is a quick education in the Savile row dialect. The line includes three basic types: foulard ties, which are silk prints; madders, or prints on heavier silk; and jacquards, or woven silks, usually with stripes or elaborate designs.
I found myself admiring the traditional techniques that Mr. Walker and Mr. Brightly described so jauntily. All the ties are made from natural fibers, with pure wool linings, silk tippings inside the tie ends, loops that keep both flaps of the tie together and a spring thread that holds the shape.
The regimental rep stripes come in patterns from traditional English and Scottish fighting forces like the Royal Hussars, the Queen's Royal Lancers, the Light Dragoons and the Seaforth Highlanders. Mr. Brighty mentioned that his great-grandfather had been a tailor in the Royal Fusiliers.
Wearing regimental stripes in Britain can be socially perilous. "Germans love the old Royal Army Medical Corps ties, and you know, they'll be in a pub when it's half deserted and some old fellow who's from the ranks will come up and try to cadge a drink off of them," Mr. Brighty said.
IT is a tricky business, this matter of selling ties around the world. "The Japanese don't like ties with swords on them, but they adore cutesy little dogs and cats and teddy bears," Mr. Walker said. "With the Middle East, it's no crosses or stars."
Americans are fond of the kinds of patterned wildlife ties that shooters of game birds wear with their tweeds. But some people closer to home, where blood sports is a charged issue, aren't. "One of our neighbors had 'Hunting scum' written across his window," Mr. Walker said.
In the end, there is no telling what influences tie choice. "We used to hear stories that if times were going badly, people began buying ties in darker colors," Mr. Brighty said. "But then someone pointed out that when there was a recession, people actually bought more ties, because they couldn't afford a whole new suit."
Until recently, the most popular colors with Hunters' customers were red, blue and green. But then Monica Lewinsky famously gave a tie to President Clinton. "We suddenly had a rush of orders for the same kind," Mr. Brighty said. "So now the favorite colors are red, blue, green and gold."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the Web site of the Hunters Partnership, customers can match its ties to its shirts -- or to images of their own shirts scanned into the computer. Hunters is run by Martin Brighty, below left, and David Fraser Walker. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: LUXURYTIES.COM PARTNERSHIP LTD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LUXURYTIES.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: TIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAILERS (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (73%); WEB SITES (72%); 

PERSON: BRIGHTY, MARTIN; WALKER, DAVID FRASER; HOGE, WARREN MARTIN D WALKER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



411 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Barbara Burby, Samuel Wang

 BODY:
Barbara Derina Burby and Samuel Wei-Teh Wang were married yesterday by the Rev. Randolph L. C. Weber at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York.
Mrs. Wang, 31, is a regional manager for international sales and customer relations in the New York office of Freudenberg Nonwovens, a German fabric manufacturer. The bride received a bachelor's degree in fashion design and management from Salem College in Winston-Salem, N.C. Her parents, Nannie Burby and Dr. Raymond J. Burby, live in New Orleans, where her father is a distinguished professor of urban and regional planning at the University of New Orleans. 
 Mr. Wang, 36, is the media director at the Capital One Financial Corporation, a consumer finance company in Falls Church, Va. He received a bachelor's degree in political science and economics from Duke University and an M.B.A. from Columbia University. His parents, Julia Y. Wang and Dr. Paul P. Wang, live in Durham, N.C., where his mother is a former owner of the Dynasty restaurant and his father is a professor of electrical and computer engineering at Duke. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (70%); DURHAM, NC, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (70%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (71%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (70%); DURHAM, NC, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); TERRITORY MANAGEMENT (77%); FABRICS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); ENGINEERING (75%); TEXTILE MFG (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); FABRIC MILLS (56%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (52%); 

PERSON: BURBY, BARBARA DERINA (BARBARA DERINA WANG); WANG, SAMUEL WEI-TEH BARBARA DERINA BURBY (80%); RANDOLPH L C (57%); WEI-TEH WANG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



412 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: A Color Only a Fan Could Love

BYLINE: By DAN NEIL 

 BODY:
HENRY FORD said customers could have any color car they wanted as long as it was black, but Mr. Ford never went to college, which explains why he never made anything of himself.
Had he graduated from, say, Michigan State -- which recently won the N.C.A.A. basketball championship -- he might have offered the Model T in the Spartans' team colors, green and white. 
 Such boosterism inspired managers at Nissan's truck plant in Smyrna, Tenn., to paint several dozen Frontier Crew Cabs in the Halloween orange of the University of Tennessee Volunteers, who won the national collegiate football championship in 1999.
"There is a lot of school spirit in the area," said Tom Groom, spokesman for the Smyrna operation. "All of the trucks got scooped up and sold in a hurry."
In all, 72 Crew Cabs and one preproduction Xterra were painted orange during the spring of 1999 as the plant prepared for full production of the vehicles. "It was kind of an experiment, as a way to draw attention to dealers," said Mr. Groom.
The paint-shop manager, Tom Collins, got a color sample from the University of Tennessee, then adjusted the color slightly to make it less "aggressive" and to avoid any infringement on the university's copyrighted color.
In a country where even caskets are available in sports regalia, why don't more cars come in school colors? First, because the economics of car-building resist low-volume paint runs. Modern vehicle plants run on squeaky-tight schedules, made even tighter by the current boom in sales. Custom paint orders require that the paint circulating systems be stopped and flushed -- a process that can take as long as a week, according to the DuPont color marketing manager, Bob Daily, who went to Waynesburg College in Pennsylvania (brown and yellow).
In Tuscaloosa, home to the Crimson Tide of the University of Alabama, the Mercedes plant is running "25 hours a day," said James M. Resnick, a company spokesman. While it would be fun to produce a Crimson Tide edition, he said, "it would take time and energy away from the core production."
Mr. Daily pointed out that "even a small car is a very big area," and that many sports teams' colors simply wouldn't wear well on vehicles. "We have to be guided by our own opinions of good taste," said Mr. Daily. "Of course, if you are a proud alumnus, your opinion might differ."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Nissan truck in Tennessee orange. (Miles Cary for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 7201 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO; UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE FORD MOTOR CO (92%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (92%); UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (92%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NISSAN MOTOR CO; UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (92%); UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (92%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SMYRNA (TENN); UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; FOOTBALL; COLOR COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (76%); PICKUP TRUCKS (76%); BASKETBALL (72%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: HENRY FORD II (92%); TOM COLLINS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



413 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: CALLINGS;
A Forefather of Venture Capital

BYLINE: By LAURA PEDERSEN-PIETERSEN; Laura Pedersen-Pietersen is a Manhattan author and public speaker. Her column profiling people whose work is their passion appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: yourmind@nytimes.com.

DATELINE: ST. PAUL

 BODY:
AT 84, Alan K. Ruvelson has every reason to dismiss those bumper stickers that read "Lead, follow or get out of the way." Ever since he was a teenager in Minnesota, he has been a chronic joiner.
And that joining instinct, so famously scorned by Groucho Marx ("I don't care to belong to any club that will accept me as a member"), has served Mr. Ruvelson quite well. It has even had an impact on the nation's economy -- for among his many accomplishments, Mr. Ruvelson was a venture-capital pioneer. 
 "He was one of the founding fathers of venture capitalism," said Samuel L. Hayes III, an investment banking specialist at Harvard, who met Mr. Ruvelson when they led venture capital seminars in the 60's.
It all started in 1928, when Mr. Ruvelson entered the St. Thomas Military Academy here, decades before "network" became a verb. As one of a handful of Jews at the school, he saw early that getting involved was a way to build bridges. So he joined clubs and other school activities.
After graduating from the University of Minnesota with a business degree, he joined his father in the diamond business, married his college sweetheart and joined the local PTA and assorted community groups. He also began exhibiting, as he put it, "dangerous amateur Republican tendencies" for someone from a fundamentally Democratic family and area. By the early 1950's, he was campaigning for Dwight D. Eisenhower, and his loyalty was rewarded in 1953 when he was appointed a regional field adviser for the new Small Business Administration.
While the job did not even pay the proverbial "dollar a year," it did let him learn of Washington's plans for easing the path toward financing small businesses. So during Eisenhower's second term, Mr. Ruvelson was first in line for a license in the Small Business Investment Companies program.
In 1959, he pioneered the nation's first such company: First Midwest Capital, still based in St. Paul (though now called First Midwest Ventures and primarily a consulting business). "It was like traveling across the prairie, making your own wagon tracks," he said of the firm's early days.
First Midwest made the first investment under the program, in the Pride Seed Company, a producer of hybrid corn seed in Glen Haven, Wis., that later became part of Novartis.
In 1971, Mr. Ruvelson was also one of the first to invest in a software company, Comserv Inc., eventually acquired by Dun & Bradstreet.
He was a pioneer in other ways. In the early 1960's, he discovered a capital-gains tax loophole that attracted many other investors to the venture capital field, though Congress ended that incentive by changing the tax laws in the 1980's.
From 1959 to 1986, when Mr. Ruvelson turned more toward consulting, First Midwest invested about $15 million in 63 companies. Most were later bought by larger concerns.
His ideas turned the small-business lending universe upside down. Previously, loans were made in exchange for collateral; now investments were made in exchange for equity.
Mr. Ruvelson embraces the legacy. "Prior to that, there were really only wealthy families like the Whitneys and the Rockefellers who did venture investing," he said.
He was also one of the first investors to effect a leveraged buyout -- that of H. & Val Rothschild Inc., a mortgage banker that was later sold. "People didn't call it an L.B.O.," he said, "just a high-risk deal."
Still active in First Midwest and his many civic committees, he notes that his voluntary activities have helped him come across deals that would have otherwise escaped his attention. But then he often gave these civic pursuits priority over his business. "I could have made a lot more money had I not spent so much time trying to solve local business problems," he said. Even in his investments, he favored ones that fostered growth around the Twin Cities.
The leading venture capitalists of today are far wealthier, he acknowledged. "Just because you're first doesn't necessarily make you the richest," he said, laughing heartily. "Being a pioneer means you have to make the first mistakes as well."
What does he see as the future of venture capital? "Stepped-up activity with less government involvement." Young people today, he said, do not understand the personal and professional value of volunteerism because the robust economy has insulated them. "Whatever you do, get involved." he advised. "You become part and parcel of all that you see and do. It broadens you."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan K. Ruvelson, the pioneer venture capitalist, is now a consultant to a firm that will operate a hazardous-waste collection site in Minnesota. (Matthew F. Witchell for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (51%); NOVN (SWX) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (51%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; VENTURE CAPITAL VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); TAX LAW (83%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (68%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (60%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: RUVELSON, ALAN K; PEDERSEN-PIETERSEN, LAURA ALAN K RUVELSON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



414 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 3; Column 1; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: A NIGHT OUT WITH: Justin Kerrigan;
Rolling Stoned

BYLINE: By LINDA LEE 

 BODY:
WHEN the Welsh hyphenate writer-director-actor Justin Kerrigan blew into New York on Sunday night, the people at Miramax, which is releasing "Human Traffic," his film on the rave scene, must have gone for the Advil.
It's not that Mr. Kerrigan, 26, is one of those bad boys who trash hotel rooms. It's that he's candid about his decadent drug-fueled lifestyle, which is celebrated in his film. 
 Which means it's pretty entertaining to meet him flying without a conversational governor in a bar in Greenwich Village, just off the plane from London, as he sets out to party through the night.
Mr. Kerrigan is emblematic of a batch of ravequake directors who have established a new genre of beach party movies set in the club world of the 90's. A night with him seemed like a live-action version of his film, jarringly unabashed and slightly blurry.
"Human Traffic" details 48 hours in the lives of five 20-somethings in Cardiff, Wales, who are stuck in dead-end jobs and live for Saturday night, when they can take drugs and dance. It is based on him and his friends, and the subplot about impotence is based on his own experience.
"I had sexual insecurity big time," he offered. "But I got over it."
The working life of the characters in the film is also familiar ground. Mr. Kerrigan worked in the British Home Stores when he wasn't on the dole. That was before Miramax flew him business class on British Airways to New York, after giving him a three-picture deal.
As for drugs, another subplot in the movie, Mr. Kerrigan not only likes them, he makes no secret of doing them. At 11 p.m. he broke away from sipping Jack Daniel's and Cokes to slip into the limousine to call a friend. He just wanted to make sure that when he was finished drinking Jack Daniel's and Cokes he could drop by and get stoned.
This attitude has taken Mr. Kerrigan from Cardiff to the highest circles. He refers to Harvey Weinstein at Miramax, which bought the film last fall, as "the Al Capone of the movie industry." Last year, he met the Queen at Windsor Castle after "Human Traffic" won some awards. "And I wanted to say, 'Have you seen this film?' "
There he was, he said, in the Great Hall, and in came the Queen "and her posse."
"Suddenly she's there and I didn't know what to do, so I stuck out my hand," he said. "You're not supposed to touch the Queen or make the first move. But she was nice and she took my hand. And then she stayed to talk. And finally I said, 'So do you rent this place out for parties?' "
He shared the information that he smoked a joint in the Great Hall, and that "I woke up in Bayswater with no money, no cab fare, and I had to stop and say, 'What happened?' "
By midnight, the car was headed uptown to party sites unknown, and it was time for this reporter to be dropped off. Sharing his gen-Ecstacy philosophy about success, Mr. Kerrigan made clear that people can get all they need from the visual environment. "I've only read four books in my entire life," he said. They are "Conversations With Woody Allen," "Conversations With Martin Scorsese," Douglas Coupland's "Generation X" and "Mr. Nice Guy," by Howard Marks, a pot dealer.
He fretted about his schedule. The next day he would leave for other cities. "Miramax is giving me two days off in Houston," he said. "They're turning me loose in John Wayne territory. What are they going to make of me in Houston?"
Hey, anyone who can handle Harvey Weinstein and the Queen can handle Houston.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Justin Kerrigan's latest film carries a whiff of his life. (David Corio for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HUMAN TRAFFIC (MOVIE)

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); WALES (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WALES (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); FILM GENRES (72%); 

PERSON: KERRIGAN, JUSTIN; LEE, LINDA HARVEY WEINSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



415 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
The Chicken, the Egg and the Reign of Gasoline

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ONCE upon a time, just after the Persian Gulf war and the oil-price spike it caused, the government came up with yet another plan to reduce American dependence on imported oil.
The big idea was to promote alternative fuels for vehicles. The plan Congress passed in 1992 was intended, by the far-off year of 2000, to replace 10 percent of the gasoline and diesel fuel used by cars, pickups, vans and sport utility vehicles with something not made from oil. By 2010, it was supposed to replace 30 percent. 
 So far, it has been a fairy tale. There are indeed about one million cars and light trucks on the road equipped to run on natural gas, ethanol, methanol, propane or some other substitute, but hardly any of them ever do. The country has made only about an eyedropper-full of progress for each gallon of gasoline or diesel burned.
Many advocates of alternative fuel blame the car companies. Car companies blame the Energy Department. The Energy Department blames Congress. And everybody, by and large, still uses gasoline.
Officials at the Energy Department say they have tried hard to make the 1992 program work, but that they were hobbled from the start by weaknesses in the plan, contained in the Energy Policy Act. "It's like going after a grizzly bear with a fly swatter," said one Energy Department official, who asked not to be further identified.
Nobody ever thought it would be easy. The authors of the plan recognized the obvious, that no one would buy a nongasoline car until its fuel was available at filling stations all over the country, and that no one would build the filling stations until there were cars to use the fuel. They tried to solve the chicken-and-egg problem by tapping the buying power of large public and private vehicle fleets.
The law, passed by a Democratic Congress and signed by President George Bush, required two categories of fleet owners -- the federal and state governments, and companies that sell electricity and natural gas -- to include a certain share of alternative-fuel vehicles among their new purchases. The figure for the federal government this year is 75 percent.
But the law contained a crucial compromise. It called for vehicles that could use alternative fuels, not those that must use them, to spare fleet owners any danger of being held hostage by fuel suppliers.
Today, some 30 light-duty vehicle models -- sedans, station wagons, mini-vans, pickups and sport utility vehicles -- are built to run solely on some alternative fuel, usually natural gas or propane. But "sales are still stuck in the basement," said the Energy Department official, accounting for fewer than 1 of every 1,000 light vehicles sold.
A second, more successful provision called for stretching gasoline supplies by adding filler chemicals to ordinary gasoline, like Hamburger Helper to ground beef. But the most popular, known as M.T.B.E., proved to be a threat to groundwater supplies, and the Clinton administration now wants to ban it.
Other parts of the law worked better; for example, energy use per square foot in federal buildings has been cut by more than 20 percent. But that saves coal and natural gas, not gasoline. The effort to diversify transportation fuel has had some success in heavy vehicles like trucks and buses, but not in the light vehicles that use most of the fuel.
One giant hurdle is retail availability. Of the 145,000 gas stations in the United States, only about 50 sell fuel that is more than 10 percent ethanol. None are in Washington, so parked in the garage beneath the Energy Department headquarters are three ethanol-ready cars that have never seen any fuel but unleaded regular. (The federal government is helping to open an ethanol pump at a station near the Pentagon in Arlington, Va.)
About 1,300 places have compressed natural gas, but most are bus depots, United Parcel Service hubs or the like. Only a few dozen are ordinary service stations. That creates a special problem, because natural-gas vehicles typically go only about half as far on a tankful as gasoline vehicles do.
Some fuel companies tried to help; in the early 1990's, Amoco added natural gas at 37 of its service stations, at a cost of more than $250,000 apiece. But sales were so slow -- the equivalent of 20 gallons of gasoline a day -- that the company gave up.
THE authors of the Energy Policy Act hoped that fleets would get the ball rolling, and that high gasoline prices would lead to demand for alternative fuels. But they were wrong, partly because for years the price of gasoline did not cooperate. Natural gas and ethanol are roughly competitive with what gasoline was selling for last year, and are notably cheaper than gasoline today. But expectations are paramount, and most car shoppers today do not believe that gas will remain expensive for very long.
"The increased use of alternative fuels very much depends on the price of gasoline," said Dan W. Reicher, assistant secretary of energy for efficiency and renewable energy. "At least today, ethanol is a very competitive fuel." With a tax subsidy already in place, he added, suppliers "can make money at a price point somewhat below the current price of gasoline."
Except perhaps for electric cars, the technology needed for the vehicles is mostly in place. "We've proven they work," said Bill Webster, director of fleet management at the General Services Administration, which buys much of the government's car fleet, including 27,000 alternative-fuel vehicles. "The problem is, you have to have an infrastructure."
Another problem is that Congress gave the Energy Department authority to require local governments and big corporations to buy alternative-fuel vehicles too, but the department has not done so.
"It was optional," said Lisa Cutler, a spokeswoman for the department. "We only had to do it if it was critical to meet Epact goals," she added, using a shorthand name for the law.
And builders of alternative-fuel vehicles say one reason so few are on the road is that many government agencies that are required to buy them simply do not.
"It's really a challenge," said Art Garner, a spokesman for Honda, who said his company had spent millions of dollars to develop a natural-gas-powered Civic that California says is the cleanest internal combustion car made. "The letter of the law is not pursued very stringently," he said. "Nobody's complied with it." And Ford Motor, which makes the most natural-gas-powered cars, said sales were nowhere near what they would be if everyone were complying. Mr. Reicher said that the shortfall was only about 500 cars and that the Energy Department had written letters to noncompliers.
As for the public at large, voluntarily buying an alternative-fuel car hardly makes sense on economic grounds. Natural gas has been selling for the equivalent of 75 cents or so a gallon, according to Gilbert P. Sperling of the Natural Gas Vehicle Coalition -- attractive today but less so when gasoline goes for $1 or $1.10. For a typical household car or van, he said, "you're paying $5,000 more for a vehicle that uses only 500 gallons a year." For buses that use thousands of gallons a year, he said, switching is a "no brainer," but for light-duty vehicles, "we're not seeing much activity."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A car filled up with gasoline, upper left, at a station in Arlington, Va., that has been equipped to pump natural gas. The compressors, above, supply a special pump, left. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT (89%); DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT (89%); DEMOCRATIC CONGRESS (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ENERGY AND POWER MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); GAS STATIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPANE (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); ALCOHOLS (77%); MINIVANS (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); PICKUP TRUCKS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (72%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); ETHANOL (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (62%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



416 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Thinking Defensively As the Bears Thrash

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
AFTER soaring 86 percent last year, the Nasdaq composite has plunged by one-third in just five weeks -- a bear market by any definition but one that some people say is nearing its end. After all, much of the technology on which investors are betting when they buy popular Nasdaq stocks seems to also have the effect of shortening market cycles, allowing excesses to be wrung out in days or weeks instead of months or years.
That is the optimistic view. Other people contend that this remains treacherous territory and that things could get considerably worse. One of them is Douglas R. Cliggott, the United States equity strategist for J. P. Morgan. He took time Friday morning to discuss Nasdaq valuations and some alternative areas for stock investment. Following are excerpts from that conversation: 

Q. A lot people think we are close to a bottom in the Nasdaq, but you don't agree. Why?
 
A. Even at 3,500 or so we're still almost 1,000 points above where we were in mid-October. The stocks are at extraordinarily high levels. The Nasdaq's probably trading -- even if we're very generous and say tech earnings can grow 25 percent a year -- at a price-to-earnings-growth ratio between 6 and 7. Some companies warrant that, but does tech as a whole? The answer is an unambiguous no.
Our rough-and-ready approach is that at the 3,000 level we would think of going back to a neutral on technology, and in the 2.000-to-3,000 range, that's what we'd consider a really true new buying opportunity.
 
Q. So you can say you saw this downdraft coming?
 
A. We were early. But it was inevitable. Looking back to the 1970's, there have been only two years when the Nasdaq, if it got very far away from its 200-day moving average, didn't have a pullback. In the summer of '98, the moving average broke and brought the Nasdaq back to its trend.
 
Q. With the latest inflation report, more interest-rate increases seem likely. Do you agree with those who minimize the effect of higher rates on technology companies?
 
A. No. Tech is very vulnerable to higher interest rates for three reasons. Capital spending of most companies buying high-tech equipment is now significantly higher than their cash flow, meaning they have to borrow. Investors who buy tech stocks have been using debt; not just buying on margin but maybe instead of taking money out of the market to buy that new sport utility vehicle they get a home-equity loan. And a higher risk-free return, such as on Treasury bonds, leads to a lower fair value for stock prices.
 
Q. Are there any technology stocks you like now?
 
A. We're quite defensive. The only grouping we recommend investors be overweighted in is information technology services and computer services. Two companies that are very strong and have very reasonable valuations are I.B.M. and Computer Sciences.
 
Q. Would you say that the market generally has been, or will be, gravitating toward what you might call brand-name technology and away from junk technology?
 
A. I'd call this conservative, reliable tech rather than high-stakes tech.
 
Q. You have a 50 percent allocation to stocks -- and 25 percent each to bonds and cash -- so where does this money go?
 
A. What we've been doing is recommending that investors increase their exposure to consumer staples such as foods, pharmaceuticals, household products and beverages -- groups that have been generally out of favor since '97.
 
Q. Are people taking this advice -- to turn to these traditional favorites that have lagged so badly?
 
A. There's been a fair amount of skepticism because, except for the drugs, these companies have been delivering disappointing earnings. But we think that this stemmed from four factors, all of which have reversed or are in the process.
Revived consumer spending in other parts of the world should be kicking in just about now. Second, a shift from a very strong dollar to a flat-to-weaker dollar. Third, we're starting to see improved pricing for these companies, a modest 2 to 4 percent, but the trend is up, not down. Finally, consumer staples lag when corporate earnings are accelerating and we think they're right at the peak now. The next four to six quarters will give you weaker year-over-year growth. That's exactly when you want to own pharmaceuticals and consumer staples.
 
Q. Which specific companies do you favor?
 
A. We like Bristol-Myers and Schering-Plough. In household products we like Procter & Gamble; if you liked it at 100 you've got to love it at 65 -- and we do. In food and beverages we like General Mills and PepsiCo.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas Cliggott

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN, J P, & CO; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET J P MORGAN DELAWARE (56%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN, J P, & CO; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); BONDS (77%); TRENDS (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (60%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: CLIGGOTT, DOUGLAS R; HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



417 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 8; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST HARLEM;
Yes, They Buy No Bananas, Is La Marqueta's Lament

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
Louis, King of Bananas, stands behind a row of familiar and yet unfamiliar fruit. Those roughly oblong objects with barklike skin are malanga, he says, and those other oblong items that look like turnips are gautia, from Puerto Rico.
The king, whose real name is Louis Santana, explains that these foods should be boiled in soup, or cut up and fried. He also sells thick, spotted plantains from Puerto Rico, evergreen-colored pumpkins from Costa Rica and, of course, bananas. 
 But Mr. Santana hasn't made a significant sale in weeks. His stall in La Marqueta, the once-bustling hub of market life in East Harlem, has few visitors these days. He remembers when the market was so full of vendors, about 400 at its peak, that it could take the whole afternoon to push through the entire complex.
Back then, the market's five indoor buildings, which stretch from 111th to 116th Streets on Park Avenue underneath the Metro-North viaduct, were humming. But now only one building, at 115th Street, is still open. Yesterday, Mr. Santana lamented, he earned just $12. One day last week, he made $3.50.
"There's more business in a cemetery than there is here," he said.
The city's Economic Development Corporation hopes to change that. By June 1, Best Farms Produce, a company that has run a successful business at the Essex Street Market downtown, will take over about a third of the 115th Street portion of La Marqueta, said Bruce Brodoff, a spokesman for the Economic Development Corporation. As a result, for the first time in years, the 115th Street part of the market will be fully occupied.
Last week, the city also hired a new manager for La Marqueta to improve marketing. The first in a series of holiday promotional events will take place on Mother's Day, May 14. There will also be several musical events, arts and crafts shows and exhibits in the coming months.
"We anticipate that there will be a significant increase in the number of shoppers," Mr. Brodoff said.
The East Harlem Chamber of Commerce is also working on plans to reinvigorate the market. Henry Calderon, president of the chamber, said that instead of focusing on products that can be purchased elsewhere in East Harlem, the market should be revamped as something unusual, like a tourist shopping area.
"Its time has passed," he said. "The pushcart vendors were put there under Mayor La Guardia. You cannot go back to what it used to be."
Meanwhile Mr. Santana, who started working in the stalls when he was 8, remembers the early boom years. He also recalls the decline of the market in the 1970's as merchants on Lexington Avenue began to draw business away, and he watched as the city tried to renovate and revive the market in 1996.
As change looms for La Marqueta again, Mr. Santana is a little wary.
"They come to the market from time to time and promise everything," he said. "But they never do anything." NINA SIEGAL
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Once a bustling hub with 400 vendors, La Marqueta has declined. Many remaining sellers can barely eke out a profit. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "GOODS: Foreign Exchange"
These are some of the items sold at La Marqueta:
 
West African soap
Latin American fruits
Fresh crabs and lobsters
Baseball and basketball cards
Haitian cornmeal
Plaintain flour
Sewing materials
Porcelain figurines

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); COSTA RICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC); BEST FARMS PRODUCE; EAST HARLEM CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (NYC) ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (55%); LA MARQUETA (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC); BEST FARMS PRODUCE; EAST HARLEM CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (NYC) LA MARQUETA (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); COSTA RICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; LA MARQUETA (NYC) FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); EVENT MARKETING (67%); EXHIBITIONS (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); BASEBALL (63%); 

PERSON: SIEGAL, NINA LOUIS SANTANA (94%); BRUCE BRODOFF (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



418 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2739 words

HEADLINE: Your Ad Here

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
NEW YORK is disappearing.
Landmarks and lampposts, windows and rooftops, even the pavement. All disappearing. 
 The city is disappearing under a blanket of advertising that has usurped almost every surface, turning what were once public realms -- sidewalks, skylines and streetscapes -- into private marketing arenas where dot-coms, clothing chains, liquor companies, television networks and other businesses wage a larger-than-lifesize battle for New Yorkers' attention and money.
"The visual character of the city is being transformed, and there's a sense that no one is in control," said Kent L. Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society, a civic organization that began its fight against billboards with a lawsuit that forced their removal from Bryant Park.
In 1904.
New York has never been a pristinely commercial-free environment. Much of its manic, marvelous jolt comes from the kinetic creativity of promotion, from the tension between aesthetes and hucksters.
Just think of the dazzling signs of Times Square, as the critic G. K. Chesterton did in 1922. "What a glorious garden of wonder this would be," he said, "to any one who was lucky enough to be unable to read."
Today, however, the garden has escaped its borders. Apart from churches and synagogues -- and the newly restored pedestrian ramps at Grand Central Terminal -- there are few places of public assembly still untouched by the iconography of spending and consuming.
And the impending completion of 4 Times Square, with 4,900-square-foot ad panels almost 800 feet in the sky, promises that a sign posted at 42nd Street will soon be visible in New Jersey.
"People are kind of open to this intense signage," said Raymond Gastil, executive director of the Van Alen Institute in New York, which concerns itself with public design. "The cat's out of the bag. You can't just keep it in Times Square as a special signage zoo."
"A lot of architects look to signage as a new opportunity for communication," he added. "It's 'Blade Runner Comes Alive.' And maybe that's not so bad. At least in visuals."
But there are stirrings of protest as neighborhood after neighborhood falls to the advertising juggernaut.
As recently as 1994, there was not a single printed "grand format" advertising mural in New York, according to Unidigital, a media company that has since covered many walls in the city. Today, as more and more buildings, windows and all, are draped in stupendous vinyl panels, marketing may be said quite literally to frame New Yorkers' lives.
"When I first saw someone looking out the window of an ad, it struck me as a tremendous metaphor for the goal of branding: to become the infrastructure, to create a lifestyle that we can live inside," Naomi Klein said. Ms. Klein is the author of "No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies" (Picador USA, 1999), which examines global marketing campaigns and the backlash against them.
Old-fashioned signs had to be painstakingly painted in a kind of color-by-number method. Computer technology permits the quick reproduction of photographic images at gigantic scale and with astonishing clarity, making it as easy to alter a New York City vista as to place an ad in a magazine.
New York is by no means alone under the blanket. Apple Computer has even managed to hang "Think Different" banners, featuring Pablo Picasso and Gustave Eiffel, on the facade of the Louvre.
But the effect of hypercommercialization feels particularly jangling in a city that does not want for stimuli. Colossal body forms and vast logos seem to diminish and trivialize the architecture around them.
How can even the most ornate Corinthian colonnade hope to compete for attention with an equally large bare torso? Or with sidewalk scaffolds, construction barricades, telephone booths, awnings, subway entrances, bus-stop shelters, vending boxes and hot-dog stands ablaze with advertising?
Illuminated trailer-truck billboards and taxis with neon rooftop signs jostle for space with sightseeing and commuter buses that have been turned into ads from headlight to taillight, and across all the windows in between.
City lampposts recently sported banners for Philips light bulbs and HBO under the veneer of public service announcements for the Times Square New Year's Eve celebration and for a free boxing clinic for youths.
Under foot and all around town, the Gap and other stores have commandeered sidewalks at night, beaming advertising from lamps onto the concrete. Overhead, HBO projects promotional slides onto the blank walls of 2 Columbus Circle.
Sign makers have their eyes on even more territory. At a forum on Wednesday sponsored by the Municipal Art Society, Tama Starr, the president of the Artkraft Strauss Sign Corporation, said, "Rationality demands that 34th Street be opened up to signs to reflect its character as a retail and transactional environment."
Sail into Manhattan across the Hudson and you are greeted by "Parmalat." The milk and food company has taken over the side of a warehouse in the West 20's.
Though each single instance may be dismissed -- or excused -- as ephemeral, the collective impression of a hundred fleeting glimpses is that life in New York is now one ceaseless, unrelenting branding campaign. And it is worth wondering, when everyone is shouting, whether anyone can be heard.
"It has changed a city of neighborhoods into just a drive-through advertising extravaganza," said State Senator Thomas K. Duane, a Democrat who represents some of the areas most conspicuously transformed by the barrage: SoHo, TriBeCa, the Flatiron and Ladies' Mile districts (around Union Square, Madison Square and the West 20's).
"New York is already noisy and it can be smelly," Mr. Duane said, "and now there's no way even to rest your eyes."
 
A Municipal Superego To Police the Supersigns
To judge from appearances, city officials have been less vigilant policing supersigns than they have been in trying to curb other forms of expression like provocative museum exhibitions, political gatherings on the City Hall steps and ads that poke fun at Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
But the administration has taken some measures. The Landmarks Preservation Commission and the Buildings Department have prevented, removed or contested numerous signs that were oversized, inappropriate or simply illegal.
And the City Planning Department will be offering its own signage rules "imminently," said Jennifer Chait, a spokeswoman, without elaborating on exactly when that might be. The rules would limit the size, height and illumination of signs in manufacturing districts, which are liberally regulated under 39-year-old zoning rules that were written before industrial areas like SoHo and TriBeCa became residential.
The new rules would not affect existing legal signs, Ms. Chait said. But, she added, "The city does intend to increase enforcement."
Mr. Barwick of the Municipal Art Society wonders just how effective any regulation can be that is drafted in the coming months. "We're in an election year," he said. "Who wants to offend giant media companies?"
And what politician would want to deprive landlords of what almost amounts to found money? Depending on the size of a wall, its orientation and location, a mural sign in Manhattan might yield $5,000 to more than $100,000 monthly.
Since the penalty for an illegal sign is not likely to exceed $1,000, it has little deterrent effect. Even when the laws are enforced, advertising companies and landlords can simply accept the fines as a cost of doing business.
 
One Viewer's Excess Is Another's Urban Delight
Regulatory efforts hit another stumbling block: what constitutes excess is a matter of taste.
At one moment, community groups are battling the illuminated Travelers umbrella logo at 388 Greenwich Street. Then they are rallying to preserve the Guardian Life sign atop the former insurance company headquarters on Union Square.
The truth is that the cityscape that New Yorkers revere as most authentic and therefore inviolable is most likely the one that they first encountered.
Anyone who arrived between between the mid-60's and early 90's may nostalgically recall the streamlined Pan Am logo atop 200 Park Avenue, though an earlier generation saw it as a glaring assault on the understated avenue.
Similarly, the newcomer whose plane landed yesterday knows a New York with a Travelers umbrella on its skyline and a 120-foot Nasdaq sign at 4 Times Square, developed by the Durst Organization and designed by Fox & Fowle, that has turned a patch of the building's skin into an animated, ever-changing ad.
In any case, excess is a more genuine New York trait than restraint ever was.
"It's never been a city of half measures," said Don Allman, the president of TDI, one of half a dozen media companies that have been transforming the look of cities around the world.
TDI and Infinity Outdoor (formerly Outdoor Systems), another leader in the field, are wholly owned divisions of the Infinity Broadcasting Corporation, in which the CBS Corporation holds a controlling interest.
In a promotional brochure, TDI offers advertisers the chance to "consistently hammer home your message on as many fronts as possible" in the "least expected and most impactful places." Under its "station domination" plan, a single company can take over a municipal hub with banners, posters, floor decals and displays.
In February, The New York Times dominated the Port Authority Bus Terminal. American Airlines has taken over the World Trade Center concourse, and Cablevision has permeated Pennsylvania Station.
"New Yorkers believe that if they're going to do anything, they're going to do it bigger, louder and arguably better than anywhere else in the world," Mr. Allman said.
 
Mural, Mural on the Wall, Who's the Biggest of Them All?
The most transfiguring medium at the moment is the wall mural, which began appearing in the mid-90's. Generated by computer onto flexible vinyl panels, it is limited in size only by the building on which it is slathered; sometimes, with a bit of extra framework, not even by that.
"These large graphics have the powerful visual impact advertisers desire and have even had the effect of transforming the urban landscape of some larger cities," wrote William E. Dye, the chairman and chief executive of Unidigital, in the company's 1998 annual report.
The speed of the process makes it possible for clothing chains like the Gap to change messages with the season, if not more frequently, something that was practically impossible with handpainted signs.
As a result, pouty waifs with heads as large as newsstands and limbs the size of tree trunks peer impassively at New Yorkers all over town. The landmark former Knickerbocker Hotel at Broadway and 42nd Street has turned into a virtual copper-topped kiosk for an ever-changing array of Gap fashion.
"The Attack of the 50-Foot Woman" is the name given to this phenomenon by Ronald J. Kopnicki and Christabel Gough, writing in Village Views, an architectural preservation magazine. They calculated that some figures on wall murals rival the Colossus of Rhodes, which rose 70 cubits (at least 105 feet).
Even the colossus didn't have apartments inside. A five-story-high model for Dockers trousers recently loomed over the intersection of Lafayette and Prince Streets, with a window in his face, another in his chest and another in his groin.
Some windows are not even accorded that much dignity. Two dozen of them in a building at Lafayette and Houston Streets have been obscured lately by ads for ABC and Monster.com. "There's something deeply wrong when banners are put up over the windows of apartment houses and factories," Mr. Barwick said.
But the case of the Alwyn Court, a landmark apartment building at Seventh Avenue and 58th Street, is a reminder that matters are not always so clear cut. For three months, a six-story mesh banner for FamilyWonder.com hung from construction scaffolding around the building, obscuring views of its sumptuous architecture.
For the co-op, income from the sign is a vital subsidy in a $4 million renovation, which may make it financially feasible to clean the sculptural terra-cotta facade or restore a long-lost cornice.
"We're not doing this just to make money," said David Hering, a member of the board. "It's specifically targeted to restore the building."
As for life behind the sign, he said it was not too bad. "It gives the effect from the inside that it's foggy all the time," Mr. Hering said. "It's like San Francisco."
 
Looking at Blank Walls And Seeing Dollar Signs
The FamilyWonder.com sign exemplifies another trend. Internet-related spending for outdoor advertising increased to $101 million nationwide last year from $13 million in 1998, according to the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, a trade group in Washington. All told, $4.8 billion was spent on outdoor advertising in 1999, the group said, an increase of 9 percent over 1998. Of that total, $250 million was spent in New York City.
New Yorkers might be forgiven for thinking that $249 million of that was spent in and around Houston Street, ground zero in the billboard battles, where some signs are untamed, while others in landmark districts fall under the close scrutiny of the landmarks commission.
"As the economy picked up, the value of buildings as billboards exploded," said Jennifer J. Raab, chairwoman of the commission. "When every blank wall is a potential dollar sign, the pressure on us is extraordinary."
Historical precedent suggested that some signs were not only permissible in the SoHo Historic District, but in keeping with its character, she said.
So rather than ban signs outright, the commission requires that they be painted on the walls, not printed on vinyl or mesh. Signs cannot cover more than one-third of a facade nor surround or obscure windows. And the commission prefers typographic and monochromatic design to enormous garish images.
The commission has drawn other lines, too.
It rejected a History Channel sign above "The Wall," a 1973 mural sculpture by Forrest Myers at 599 Broadway, overlooking Houston Street. It vetoed an Emporio Armani sign on a 181-year-old house at Spring and Wooster Streets because private dwellings did not historically carry signage.
It turned down a rooftop sign in the South Street Seaport Historic District and a plan to cover the Paramount Building in Times Square with a network of lights and signs. And it is unlikely to approve a 32-by-80-foot banner for Forbes.com at 921 Broadway, near the Flatiron Building.
"Every photo you'd take of the Flatiron Building would have this enormous blue statement for Forbes.com," Ms. Raab said.
For its part, the Buildings Department has moved against a rap album billboard at 210 West 125th Street that used a thinly disguised obscenity; a banner for The Wall Street Journal that greeted drivers on the Queensboro Bridge; and a recumbent 85-foot-long Dockers boy at Houston Street and the Bowery, among others. In each case, the action was taken because the signs were installed without permits. "We do not regulate content," said Paul Wein, a spokesman for the agency.
Another Dockers boy, at Lafayette and Bleecker Streets, was defaced last year by vandals, who splattered his heart with blood-red paint. "Our city is not the pages of a magazine," the attackers said through an anonymous spokesman. "Advertisers are decimating the city's landscape."
Small though they may be, there are indications that the consumerist landscape is facing growing resistance from groups like the Billboard Liberation Front in San Francisco and the Adbusters Media Foundation in Vancouver, British Columbia.
"The industry calls it freedom of speech," Mr. Kopnicki and Ms. Gough wrote in Village Views, "while people ask, why is there no right to freedom from advertising?"
Still, Ms. Klein, a Toronto journalist whose book "No Logo" has done much to bring the anticonsumerist movement to wider attention, wonders just how much can or should be done to tame the branding of New York.
"It's so complicated here," she said on a recent visit, standing under a polymorphous aqua-colored Yahoo! sign at Houston and Mulberry Streets that would have been at home outside a 1950's motel. "Part of what people love about New York is the spectacle of over-the-top commercialism."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: LAFAYETTE AND HOUSTON -- A sign for ABC obscures windows at 318 Lafayette Street, top, and vies with ads for Evian.com and Beauty.com.; 2 COLUMBUS CIRCLE -- HBO projected promotional slides for a concert onto the blank walls of the former Huntington Hartford gallery, above.; LAFAYETTE AND PRINCE -- A five-story-high model for Dockers trousers, above, was punctuated by windows
in his face, chest and groin. (Photographs by PHILIP GREENBERG for The New York Times)(pg. 11); 42ND AND NINTH -- A Gap model, top, peers through the trees. In the background, signs at 4 Times Square will be almost 800 feet in the sky.; ON MADISON AVENUE -- A billboard for Donna Karan between 68th and 69th Streets, left, obscures the architectural features of the building behind it.; BROADWAY AND HOUSTON -- Subway staircases, delivery trucks and blank walls, above, are all canvases for commercial messages. (Photographs by PHILIP GREENBERG for The New York Times)(pg. 10); COLLISION OF IMAGES -- A giant kiss on a construction shed outside the new H & M clothing store on Fifth Avenue at 51st Street, an eagle aloft on a Postal Service truck and a rooftop taxi sign. (PHILIP GREENBERG for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY BRYANT PARK GRILL (56%); GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (90%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RELIGION (65%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (57%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W; BARWICK, KENT L ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



419 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
In China Pact, Executives Sense a Hornet's Nest

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
NEARLY 100 chief executives applauded mildly when Gene Sperling, the White House economic adviser, finished his pitch for the China trade agreement. Mr. Sperling had been preaching to the choir: no one wants Congress to ratify the agreement more than the nation's top business executives. But their first question to him afterward revealed a concern that, in backing the trade bill, they are stepping on a hornet's nest.
They wanted to know what John L. Sweeney, head of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., would have told them if he, rather than Mr. Sperling, had addressed this gathering of the National Association of Manufacturers in Miami last weekend. Labor unions oppose the bill, which would upgrade China's trade status and open it to more American exports. 
 "I think Mr. Sweeney's general view would be that China is a country that puts labor organizers in jail, and we don't want to do business with a country that does that," Mr. Sperling replied.
No problem so far -- the chief executives agree that labor rights are violated in China, as are civil rights and environmental protections. But while unions and environmentalists want rules written into the agreement, corporate America argues that open trade will force reform.
Maybe. If that were the only issue, Congress would probably approve the trade agreement when it comes up for a vote in the week of May 22. But it is not the only issue. What Mr. Sperling said next, trying to explain Mr. Sweeney, is the hornet's nest for a growing number of chief executives.
"In a dynamic economy like ours, there are dislocations, and even with 4.1 percent unemployment a lot of people are hurt by job loss," Mr. Sperling said. "Trade and globalization have become the whipping boys for these issues, whether they are related or not."
The demonstrations in Seattle last November, at a World Trade Organization meeting, and those scheduled for Washington this week, at a meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, focus attention on this pain. Globalization has made America more prosperous, a point corporate lobbyists for the China bill never tire of making. But public sentiment appears to be building against an open global marketplace that fails to protect labor, civil rights and the environment, and some chief executives are acknowledging that this sentiment cannot be ignored.
"They are fearful of an antibusiness attitude, and they are trying to avoid it," said Daniel Yankelovich, chairman of DYG, a polling organization that often surveys corporate thinking. "They are trying to be on the right side of this issue. And the irony is that, in a booming economy, you can still get people worked up about globalization."
An incipient reaching-out was evident in interviews with chief executives at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January, not long after Seattle. Leaders of the demonstrations took part in the Davos discussions. So did Lewis B. Campbell, chairman of Textron.
"In my dealings with unions over many years," he said, "I have found that when you discard out of hand their views, you are making a mistake."
Mr. Campbell proposed gathering representatives of business, academia, unions and environmentalists into a new forum to debate trade policy. "If this institution were inclusive of all global interests, and everyone had a fair voice, there would not be a need to demonstrate," he said, adding that the World Trade Organization would have to consider the institution's recommendations.
THE manufacturing executives in Miami reflected this thinking, or at least some did. "We have to get out the view -- perhaps through a forum that includes all sides -- that yes, there are issues with trade, but over all the economy has benefited," said James H. Keyes, chairman of Johnson Controls and of the manufacturers' association. "Free trade has created jobs, and has also cost jobs, but the jobs gained get buried under the publicity given to the jobs lost."
So compromise is afoot. Is that bad? Would the prosperity that has come with increasingly open borders be damaged if trade agreements included standards for civil rights, labor and the environment?
No. Standards -- the normal rules of a democracy -- have not been obstacles to trade. The real danger is in fighting too hard against standards, only to have free trade deteriorate, said Dani Rodrik, a Harvard economist. "Anti-dumping duties would reappear, Europe turns in on itself, China gives up on the World Trade Organization."
That is what America's executives are beginning to recognize. Or as Mr. Rodrik put it: "Companies may be learning that they are better off with moderate rules than with constant harassment."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gene Sperling

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (73%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (73%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%); AFL-CIO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (57%); AFL-CIO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (73%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (73%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; PUBLIC OPINION EXECUTIVES (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); 

PERSON: SPERLING, GENE (CHMN); UCHITELLE, LOUIS GENE SPERLING (90%); JOHN L SWEENEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



420 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Living in the Past: Cuba Si, Korea No

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: SEOUL

 BODY:
THROUGHOUT 40 years of cold war and its aftermath, Fidel Castro has cast himself as the man who really understands the world, the intellectual scold of the rich and powerful, the nemesis of the world's last superpower. And there he was again last week, preaching to the world's rich nations about their obligations to the world's poorest nations.
Just north of here on the other side of the world, in North Korea, was a regime often seen as perhaps the most intransigent, introverted and unpredictable -- in other words, least worldly-wise -- on the planet. 
 But judging by events of last week, it is the North Koreans who seem to have come first to a reluctant understanding of how the world really works these days: That what a desperately impoverished Communist outpost sitting next to a capitalist hotshot needs most is not an enemy to rail against but a partner to join futures with.
Consider how different that view is from the one Mr. Castro offered at a summit meeting of the world's poor nations in Havana, in the kind of speech he has been giving almost throughout living memory. He said the world was in need of a "Nuremberg to put on trial the economic order that they have imposed on us."
What was wrong with that picture, of course, is what has been missing from Cuba's foreign relations now for five decades: normal diplomatic and economic ties with the United States. Without them, history since the Soviet collapse strongly suggests that no number of visits from heads of state will make a moldering Cuba thrive.
Coincidentally, North Korea was also contemplating a summit meeting -- this one in June. It is to be the first ever between leaders of the two Koreas. In these two summit meetings are critical lessons about how to unravel the final, knotty strands of the cold war -- lessons that North Korea seems to have absorbed first.
By announcing that its reclusive leader, Kim Jong Il, will begin dealing directly and at the presidential level with South Korea, Pyongyang may have finally figured out how to come in from the cold. Although caution is still very much in order, diplomats and political analysts here say North Korea may be signaling a historic shift in its strategy by deciding that South Korea's greatest value is as an awkward partner rather than an unredeemable foil.
For Cuba, an analogous development would be to see Mr. Castro finally come to terms with an American president -- Bill Clinton is his ninth -- perhaps after concluding that without the United States, no conceivable amount of Canadian mining or tourism investment will suffice to re-energize his country's economy and prospects.
Of course Mr. Castro cannot be blamed alone for the yawning political distance between Cuba and United States. Where Cuba is concerned, Washington has simply never had a Kim Dae Jung, the present South Korean leader, who at great political risk conceived and doggedly pursued a policy of engagement with the North.
"Instead of trying to first disarm the North, as Washington has so adamantly tried but failed to do, Kim sent representatives of nongovernmental organizations north with food, clothing and medicine," said Kenneth C. Quinones, a former State Department Korea expert who is director of Mercy Corps International's Northeast Asia Project. "Instead of economic isolation, he encouraged businessmen from the South to go North." Several recent administrations, including Mr. Clinton's, have toyed with the idea of "normalizing" relations with Cuba, only to conclude that the calendar of domestic politics made the costs too great.
Those costs were amply illustrated last week by the inability of even President Clinton's attorney general, Janet Reno, to get a quick resolution of the travails of Elian Gonzalez, trapped as he is in a custody battle between a father who wants to keep living in Mr. Castro's Cuba and relatives in Miami who revile Mr. Castro above all else.
Well into his 70's and perhaps with his eye fixed on history, Mr. Castro seems to find little appeal in making concessions to Washington, especially of the democratic kind. "The Koreans have a summit, there is a two-nation policy in China and Vietnam reforms its economy, but none of it matters because of a notion called Cuban exceptionalism," said Anthony P. Maingot, a professor of sociology at Florida International University in Miami. Using the Spanish word for vanity and unreality, he continued: "What we are left with is Fidel and his vanidad, and when you are talking about totalitarian states, personalities count. He simply sees no benefit from change." The next generation of Cuban leaders may well be more pragmatic, with the essential caveat that they deal with Washington, not the conservative, Miami-based exiles.
It is in this light that the announced Korean summit appears most impressive. EXPERTS differ over what brought it about. For some, dollars alone are the answer. Pyongyang itself has described the last couple of years of economic free fall as resembling a near-death experience. As a senior South Korean official said last week, "They have come to realize that we are likely to become their main donors in areas like food and fuel." Moreover, lowering tensions would likely pave the way for the North to attract aid and foreign investment.
Others, however, believe that politics are driving a North Korean regime that is essentially shielded from internal security threats. Now is simply the time, they say, when the diplomatic stars are all aligned, meaning that Seoul, Tokyo and, perhaps more tentatively, Washington, seem ready to do business with Pyongyang.
"We are at a serious moment here, where things could go very, very well," said Leon V. Sigal, a Columbia University expert in international relations. "To say they could still go badly is not news on the Korean peninsula. But we could be seeing fundamental shifts in the political relationships, and this is taking place because Seoul, Tokyo and Washington are moving in the same direction for once."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Korean War is remembered at the War Memorial in Seoul, where mannequins wear uniforms of both sides. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); GERMANY (50%); 

STATE: NUREMBERG, GERMANY (50%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (87%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; NORTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); GERMANY (50%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (50%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (87%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); COLD WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (64%); POLITICS (64%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); FRENCH, HOWARD W FIDEL CASTRO (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%); KIM JONG IL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



421 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
Had Enough? Do You Feel Poor Yet?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
WHAT are investors in the Invesco Technology fund thinking now? The fund has been up an average of 48 percenta year since 1994. But it is down 32 percent since its high for the year on March 9. Are they feeling poorer? Or is this just a blip and, on balance, they still feel pretty good?
The answers to these questions -- especially after the brutal decline in stocks last week -- say a lot about the stock market's impact on the economy. A lot rides on whether recent market volatility is enough to slow what is known as the wealth effect -- and, therefore, consumer spending -- or whether the market will have to decline a while longer to dampen consumers' profligacy. 
 There is no doubt that there was a lot of market volatility well before the roller-coaster ride of the last several weeks.
Consider the performance of the Nasdaq composite index. In 1997, it moved 1 percent or more, up or down, from the previous day's close on 33 percent of trading days. That was near a record at the time, just below the 34.9 percent of 1974 and well above the 23 percent of 1987.
In 1998, volatility increased, with moves of at least 1 percent on almost half -- 45 percent -- of trading days. In 1999 that figure climbed again, to 58 percent.
So far this year volatility is off the charts. Seventy-five percent of the trading days have ended with moves of 1 percent or more. There have been 23 days with moves of 3 percent or more, already surpassing the previous annual record of 20 in 1999..
But it is not clear that volatility has had much of an impact on consumers.
Rising volatility can be a signal of turning points in the market; indeed, there were steep plunges in the Nasdaq and other major market indexes in 1997 and 1998. Still, the Nasdaq ended up 21.6 percent and 39.6 percent, respectively, in those two years. Last year, it rose an unprecedented 85.6 percent.
And the pace of consumer spending, as measured by personal consumption expenditures, increased each year -- 3.4 percent in 1997, 4.9 percent in 1998 and 5.3 percent in 1999.
Joel Prakken, chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers in St. Louis, said that "there is a lot of speculation that, other things being equal, volatility will reduce the wealth effect." But, he added, "I am unaware of evidence that confirms or refutes that."
Neil M. Soss, the chief United States economist at Credit Suisse First Boston, says that when he looks at a "three-dimensional" view of the stock market this year, he cannot yet reach a conclusion. The Nasdaq has seen record volatility and the Dow Jones industrial average has bounced around a lot. But the Wilshire 5000 Total Market index, which tracks most of the stocks traded in the United States, had been much more stable, at least until last week.
"Should I say 'Nothing much has happened'?" Mr. Soss asked, referring to the Wilshire index. "Or should I say, 'Yes, something has happened; the volatility will make for a more cautious consumer'?" referring to the Nasdaq and the Dow. "I don't think the answer is in yet."
The answer to the question is crucial to the outlook for consumer spending and, therefore, to the pace of economic growth. And that pace will decide how high the Federal Reserve has to raise short-term interest rates in order to slow growth. In five quarter-point moves since last June, the Fed has raised its short-term interest rate target, the federal funds rate, to 6 percent. But the economy is still rocketing ahead.
So if volatility won't help slow down consumers, a deeper swoon of the markets may be necessary. Mr. Prakken said the Wilshire index, which finished the week down 9.7 percent, would have to stay where it is, or fall further, for several quarters before it would have a noticeable impact.
But with the swoon in the market on Thursday and Friday, the volatility and sharp declines might finally get the attention of American consumers. For the year, the Nasdaq is now off 18.4 percent, the Dow 10.4 percent and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index 7.6 percent.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Shock Waves"
Three indexes -- the Dow industrials, the Wilshire 5000 and the Nasdaq composite -- have taken very different routes this year to end up below where they started.
 
Graph tracks the Nasdaq Composite, Wilshire 5000 and Dow industrials since Jan.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: INVESCO TECHNOLOGY FUND INVESCO LTD (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%); WILSHIRE 5000 TOTAL MARKET (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESCO TECHNOLOGY FUND WILSHIRE 5000 TOTAL MARKET (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; WILSHIRE 5000 INDEX STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (78%); CONSUMPTION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (75%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



422 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Nicholas S. Battelle;
Standish Small Cap Tax-Sensitive Equity Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
NICHOLAS S. BATTELLE is fond of fly-fishing for lunker bass in Boston Harbor and loves to tour the Berkshires on his motorcycle, a 1998 Triumph Thunderbird with 900 cc under the tank. But ask him where his mind wanders as he frolics amid New England's natural bounty, and he acknowledges: "I think about work."
Henry David Thoreau, Mr. Battelle is not. But as portfolio manager of the $263.3 million Standish Small Cap Tax-Sensitive Equity fund, he has a work ethic that has produced some smart returns. The fund gained 55.6 percent a year, annualized, for the three years through March 31, compared with 35.2 percent for its category of small growth funds, according to Morningstar Inc. 
 As its name suggests, the fund aims to minimize taxes. Its annualized tax-adjusted return, assuming a 39.6 percent tax bracket, is 55.3 percent over the same period -- just three-tenths of a point below its outright return. That compares with a tax gap of 2.4 percentage points for its peer group.
The fund has a minimum investment of $100,000, so interested individuals may want to consult a financial adviser, who can pool clients' assets to help meet the requirement.
In picking stocks, Mr. Battelle said from his office in Boston, "we look for small capitalization, aggressive-growth companies that deliver high-octane growth, focusing on new companies with large future potential." These are mostly companies with market capitalizations of $300 million to $2.5 billion in the areas of technology, business services and technology-related health care.
With such a leaning towards new-economy stocks, it is no surprise that the fund has not escaped the recent Nasdaq sell-off; it fell 8.7 percent from March 10 through Thursday.
But Mr. Battelle, 57, says his methodology is tried and true. "Call it old-fashioned security analysis," he said. "Our stock-picking process is more organic than systematic."
Unlike many other money managers, he does not use computers to screen company financial data. Instead, he works closely with the fund's three analysts in look for companies with annual growth of at least 20 percent -- but not necessarily profit growth. Because two-thirds of the fund's companies are unprofitable, growth can be measured in a variety of other ways. For Internet companies, they consider customer volume and sales growth and evaluate business partnerships.
They talk to management to assess a company's competitive strength -- reviewing its products, product cycles, technology and marketing. Mr. Battelle particularly likes companies that are only beginning to gain market share but whose sales growth is strong.
Any major changes in the portfolio's 70 or so stocks, he said, must be approved by at least two of the four people who work on the fund.
He generally sells a stock when its price jumps 20 to 30 percent higher in a month than the overall market, or when it exceeds 5 percent of the fund's assets. He may also sell when he sees fundamental changes in the company or its industry.
Selling can be tricky, given the fund's emphasis on minimizing taxes. When a stock's price falls at least 20 percent below its initial cost, it is usually though not always sold; the loss can be used to offset gains in other stocks. The fund sold Great Plains Software at $44 a share on Monday, generating one such loss; it had bought the stock on March 1 at an average price of $67.
The fund did not distribute any gains to shareholders in 1996, 1997 or 1998, but Mr. Battelle anticipates some gains this year, as he has sold many stocks he bought at low prices.
DESPITE last week's sell-off, he remains bullish on small stocks. "We've done the correcting, and much of the damage is done," he said. "I feel good about the prospects of small-cap stocks."
Mr. Battelle sees bargains among some biotechnology companies, radio broadcasters and even business-to-business Internet stocks.
Despite the recent slump in its stock price, he likes Gene Logic, a Gaithersburg, Md., company that builds genomics reference databases, which map the human genome.
The company is rapidly signing up subscribers among big drug companies, researchers and health care organizations, he said, calling its market opportunity "open ended."
"Subscriptions are high-octane revenues," he said, "because once they build the database and absorb marketing costs, additional subscriptions are almost pure profit."
He expects the company to break even in 2002. He bought the stock at $56 in January, before the technology sell-off; it now trades at $25.4375, and Mr. Battelle has recently added to his position.
Another favorite is the CoStar Group of Bethesda, Md., which maintains an online database of commercial real estate that is used by brokers and corporate relocation managers. Subscriptions are growing 60 percent a year, Mr. Battelle said, and the company will soon offer online property auctions.
Mr. Battelle bought shares in January 1999 at $18.56; they now trade at $27.375. He expects the company to break even at the end of 2001.
He also likes iGate Capital of Oakdale, Pa., an information technology consultant that once specialized in solving Year 2000 computer problems. It now designs and builds Internet and intranet systems to link company operations, customers and suppliers, he said, and is an incubator for Internet businesses. Describing its market opportunity as "unlimited," Mr. Battelle expects initial public offerings for seven of its nine subsidiaries this year.
He bought the stock in January at $26.34. Despite the market sell-off, the shares trade at $32.50.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicholas S. Battelle, who owns a Triumph Thunderbird motorcycle, says he seeks companies with "high-octane growth" for his fund. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Standish Small Cap Tax-Sensitive Equity Fund"
Category: Small growth
Net assets: $263.3 million
Inception: January 1996
Manager: Nicholas S. Battelle since inception
Minimum purchase: $100,000
Portfolio turnover: 102%
 
3-year annualized return through March 31: 55.6%
Tax adjusted*: 55.3
 
Category average: 35.2%
Tax adjusted*: 32.8%
 
Sector breakdown
 
Technology: 50.9%
Other: 2.4%
Health: 24.5%
Services: 19.7%
Financials: 2.5%
 
Fees
 
Front-end load: None
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: None
Expense ratio: 0.75%
 
*Assumes 39.6% tax rate
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STANDISH SMALL CAP TAX-SENSITIVE EQUITY FUND MORNINGSTAR INC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDISH SMALL CAP TAX-SENSITIVE EQUITY FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); BONDS (76%); STATISTICS (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (74%); SPORT FISHING (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); NEW ECONOMY (65%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); 

PERSON: BATTELLE, NICHOLAS S; GOULD, CAROLE NICHOLAS S BATTELLE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



423 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Inflation's Toll on Inflated Markets

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
MORE than $2 trillion in investor wealth got vaporized last week. It was the worst week in Nasdaq history, and one of the worst in Wall Street's.
While the stock market's ascent into the stratosphere in recent months had been breathtaking, the speed with which this fortune vanished was nothing short of stupefying. After the government's announcement on Friday that the Consumer Price Index for March showed broad and troubling increases, stocks across the board collapsed. The Dow lost 5.66 percent, while the Nasdaq plummeted 9.67 percent. 
 "The C.P.I. kicked the market when it was down," said Christine A. Callies, chief equity strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston. "Investors had decided that valuations in tech were too inflated and needed to be adjusted. When the report came out, investors decided that the market P/E had to come down, too."
Inflation is growing at a 3.7 percent rate, year over year. Tony Crescenzi, a bond strategist at Miller Tabak, said investors were troubled by higher housing costs -- up 0.4 percent -- and medical costs, which rose 0.5 percent.
"The report could be an anomaly," said James L. Crawford, portfolio manager at Trevor Stewart Burton & Jacobsen in New York. "But when you look back over the past year, inflation has been creeping up. Most people wrote that off to oil, but those folks who have been saying inflation is nonexistent have to rethink here."
Looking for a silver lining in these ominous clouds, some investors may hope that the decline in stock prices means that the Federal Reserve will be less aggressive in raising rates in coming months. Not so, said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
"There is a long way to go to rein in an economy that is growing 6 percent-plus in the past six months and going full steam ahead in the spring," he said. "Mr. Greenspan cannot afford to take his foot off the brake in this climate."
Though the Nasdaq composite has fallen 34 percent from its March 10 high, the broader Wilshire 5000 index -- which Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, watches as a proxy for the overall market -- is down only 15.4 percent from its peak of March 24. As a result, Mr. Roach said, he expects the Fed to raise rates one-quarter point in May, again in June, again in August -- and possibly more.
Ms. Callies says that while the Nasdaq has been mauled, the broader market will not necessarily follow it into bear-market territory. "The market was never as good as the Nasdaq made it look," she said on Friday, "and today it is not as bad as it looks, either."
Investors looking to hide amid the turmoil should consider old-fashioned value stocks, Ms. Callies said, including shares in metals and paper companies, and energy service and exploration concerns. Mr. Crawford likes consumer companies that have been beaten down, like Gillette and Colgate-Palmolive, and real estate investment trusts.
Inflation frightened investors on Friday, but Mr. Roach said the movement in prices was still modest. A more important shift was in the levels of risk that investors seem willing to take. "Valuation does matter in the stock market," he said. "We're getting down to more reasonable levels in some of the more overvalued pieces of the market. But with the fundamentals of the economy intact and inflation signs minimal, stocks can find a level and hold."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Bull and bear markets in the Nasdaq composite index over the last 20 years.
(Source: Crandall, Pierce & Co.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



424 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3508 words

HEADLINE: The New Israel: Land of Milk and Money

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr.

DATELINE: TEL AVIV

 BODY:
WITH his collarless black shirt, close-cropped hair and wire-rim glasses, Gil Shwed looks like a 20-something denizen of the local coffeehouse scene. But he says he doesn't get out of the office much, unless he is traveling to one of his other offices -- in California, Singapore, Germany, Japan, France or Australia.
Besides, there is a cappuccino machine just down the hall, next to the treadmills and stair machines that Mr. Shwed provides for his headquarters staff, now almost 300 strong and expanding daily. 
 At 31, this intense, fidgety Wunderkind runs Check Point Software, which is by stock market reckoning the biggest company that Israel has ever seen. With its capitalization bouncing between $11 billion and $20 billion, this Nasdaq-traded but Israeli-based company is worth much more than the phone monopoly and leading bank -- the two next-largest public companies here -- combined.
In an ascent that shocked the tightly knit Israeli business world, Mr. Shwed took Check Point to these heights in just its fourth year on the market. And he did so while keeping his global company openly and proudly Israeli.
The boyish Mr. Shwed, who started his first software consulting firm at 15 as the computer-prodigy son of a Jerusalem civil servant, is now deferentially courted by business leaders who are decades older. And he is lionized in the popular press in terms once reserved for war heroes and Zionist pioneers. His success has opened doors for dozens of other young companies that are now prospering internationally with Israeli technology and management.
"Gil Shwed is a role model in Israel today," said Nir Barkat, the eternally grateful chairman of BRM, an investment capital firm in Jerusalem. Back in 1993, when BRM was a small software developer, it gave Mr. Shwed $300,000 in 1993 and got half of his new company in return. (That stake has since been reduced to 4 percent, worth a mere $434 million or so.) "He did something extraordinary, coming out of nowhere and creating this giant."
More significant than Mr. Shwed's individual accomplishment, though, is his place in a phenomenon that many Israelis say is reshaping not just the business landscape, but also the very contours of Israeli society.
For the first time, Israel is witnessing an explosion of private wealth generated by foreign markets and foreign investment. The surge raises tantalizing visions of new cyber-empires operating locally but competing globally -- and, some people say, troubling prospects of new economic schisms in a society that was once proudly egalitarian.
Israel's technology boom also has knit a volatile country into the most volatile part of the global economy. Recent plunges in the Nasdaq have pulled the Tel Aviv exchange down, too, as an economy once based on self-defense and self-sufficiency now finds its fortunes more affected by a stock sell-off on Wall Street than by the paralysis of peace talks with Syria.
When Forbes published its global billionaires survey last year, it could identify only three Israeli candidates: Ted Arison, the since-deceased cruise ship magnate, whose diversified empire was worth an estimated $5.6 billion, and Yuli and Sammy Ofer, whose local Ofer Brothers industrial conglomerate was valued at $1.9 billion.
Now, thanks to Nasdaq, Check Point alone has produced three billionaires: Mr. Shwed and his two partners, who each own 10 percent of the company.
Others are suddenly halfway there, like Kobi Anderson of Comverse and Aryeh Feingold of Mercury Interactive, whose American-based companies both more than tripled in value since the beginning of last year, despite the Nasdaq's recent meltdown. Now the two are bidding jointly for Maccabi Tel Aviv, the country's European championship-contending basketball team, in one of the first Paul Allen-like manifestations here of the new economy. Another Israeli demi-billionaire is Daniel Lewin, 29, an M.I.T. algorithms whiz with 10 percent of Akamai Technologies, of which he was a co-founder.
"The Internet and Israel waited 2,000 years for each other," exulted Yossi Vardi, another leading high-technology entrepreneur, who recently concluded his second $400 million sale of an Internet start-up to American buyers.
In places like Silicon Valley or Fairfax County, Va., such overnight empires are no longer news. But it is difficult to overstate the significance of this sudden accumulation of corporate power for Israel, a $100 billion economy that until recently was dominated by a cluster of state-controlled banks, utilities and military contractors.
"The scale and speed of what is going on here has, I think, shocked everybody," said Jonathan Medved of Israel Seed Partners, a venture capital firm.
After almost four years of stagnation, the Israeli economy started expanding briskly in late 1999, posting a 5 percent growth rate that was propelled by high-technology exports and a record $1.3 billion invested in new electronics and software ventures last year.
But the full impact of this new wealth has not yet been felt, as paper profits from fast-rising stock prices are only now being used to finance corporate acquisitions and international expansion. High-technology job growth still isn't fast enough to dent the 9 percent unemployment rate, though the sector's earnings are rising fast enough to make income disparities plainly visible. Thousands of young Israelis are holding millions in unredeemed stock options, many of them still well above water.
Even business leaders driving this technology boom have some trepidations about the way it is transforming Israel.
"The only thing we have is high tech," said Mr. Alexander, the chairman of Comverse, which makes voice mail and messaging systems. "We have no choice. But what is not that good is that most of the wealth is going to 35 percent of the population. A lot of people are being left behind."
Many Israelis who have not been left behind are, like Mr. Alexander, relocating abroad, at least temporarily. In an age and an industry that encourages transcontinental mobility, Israel's high-technology entrepreneurs are torn between business ambitions and loyalties to a homeland that was predicated on attracting and retaining immigrants.
With technology stocks swooning over the last few weeks, Israelis are discovering another downside of globalization. Mr. Shwed's net worth, for example, fell from $2 billion to $1 billion in the space of a few days. But he shrugs off the fluctuations. "We are in this for the long term," he said.
Check Point reported a record $40 million profit and revenues of $78 million in the latest quarter, up nearly 80 percent from the corresponding quarter of 1999. Mr. Shwed said he expects continuing annual earnings growth of 30 to 40 percent, a projection that industry analysts call conservative.
 
The Seeds
The Plowshares Of High Technology
Check Point is the archetypal Israeli high-technology success story: Three army buddies, working as computer-wise draftees in military intelligence agencies, leave the service with what Mr. Shwed calls "a pretty good idea" for a commercial software product. Their now-patented firewall program, based on an improvised solution to the army's need for security in disparate interconnected computer networks, quickly becomes a global industry standard.
For many Israelis, there is a kind of delighted astonishment that their military survival skills and national ingenuity -- like entrusting teen-agers with the development of top-secret computer programs -- have proved so unexpectedly transferable to the global marketplace.
"Like the way the Romanians produced a Nadia Comanici, or the Russians produced chess masters, Israel produced electronic systems engineers," Mr. Vardi said. "Their army training gave them a kind of commando mentality -- you move fast, you improvise -- that is ideal for dealing with the Internet."
Their success at finding civilian applications for military hardware and software is hailed as a plowshares paradigm for this military-obsessed nation, which is just beginning to anticipate the possibility of a different and peaceful future. "It is part of our culture: They shall beat their swords into Sony Playstations," Mr. Vardi proclaimed. "It is right there in the Bible."
Their shared military origins may also better protect Israeli companies from a high-technology market implosion, some analysts say. These are not highflying Web portals or e-tailers; they are mostly back-office, inside-the-network mechanics, relying on the corporate market for secure communications and business-to-business computer transactions. Others are data transmission specialists. Most are reporting real profits and rising sales; one indicator is the record $2 billion that Israel earned from software exports last year, almost double the 1998 mark.
"These are not the Internet companies which people associate with losing lots of money in return for market share," said Clifford A. Goldstein, the American founder of Amdidex35, a Nasdaq-listed index fund of the 35 largest Israeli-run public corporations. "These are companies shipping product."
(Still, Akamai, the Internet systems maker that was one of last year's hottest Nasdaq stocks, has lost a stunning 80 percent of its market value since Jan. 1.)
About 100,000 Israelis now work for high-technology companies here, of whom perhaps one-third are highly-paid managers and engineers, estimated Shali Tshuva, an investor and analyst who has supervised government studies of the sector. Salaries in that upper tier have doubled in the last three years, company recruiters say. Yet wages elsewhere in the economy have remained stagnant.
"What bothers me is that it might create an upstairs-downstairs environment here," Mr. Tshuva said. "There is such an enormous difference in income between old-economy employees and new-economy employees, you might end up with two economies in the same country."
Or two societies. Israel's new entrepreneurial class is highly educated, fluently multilingual and politically unrooted, with leftish support for peace pacts matched by free-market scorn for business regulations. It is internationally transient, moving confidently through Manhattan and London and Silicon Valley from its staunchly secular base in northern Tel Aviv. It is ethnically European, including Russian and North American immigrants. It has little contact with Arabs or Orthodox Jews, Israel's two large, poor minorities.
In a culture that disdains ostentation, there are few conspicuous displays of new money. Israeli techies appear to be working constantly -- "like crazy people," said Mr. Barkat, admiringly -- online and by telephone, across several time zones, late into the evening, six days a week.
"We spend 14 hours in the office, half of it not even in Israel," Mr. Shwed remarked, shifting in a leather chair in the 24th floor of a skyscraper in Tel Aviv's diamond district -- the center of what used to be the country's only global civilian business. "We care about what is going on here, but our focus has been looking outside of Israel, rather than looking inside. It is a very strange situation. You are very attached to something, but you are also detached from it."
Within 5 or 10 years, Mr. Shwed predicted, he and his peers will be devoting much of their time and money to private philanthropy, especially in education, now almost wholly financed by the government and by Jewish donors overseas.
But for the moment, he said, they are concentrating on "building their businesses" -- and, in a new experience for wealthy entrepreneurs here, they are being cheered on from the sidelines.
 
The Impact
From Success, A Change in Values
Historically, from its kibbutznik grass roots to its avowedly Socialist leadership, this was a culture that cherished communal endeavor and frowned on individualism. Patriotism, not profit, was the incentive.
The business community -- despite the wealth concentrated in a few family conglomerates -- was devoted mostly to state enterprises judged essential to the survival of the young nation. Tax policies, social mores and limited investment opportunities made entrepreneurial fortunes exceedingly rare -- and entrepreneurs themselves the frequent object of envy and suspicion.
Even now, the success of the new high-technology rich "inspires fear as well as admiration," said Yaron Ezrahi, a prominent social commentator. "Because the scale of the wealth these people have attained is almost surrealistic, and because it comes out of a market that is partly incomprehensible, this new elite looks in some ways like an undeserving elite."
Overriding such misgivings, though, is a powerful surge of national pride in the idea of young Israelis triumphing in world markets "on the basis of their brains alone," Mr. Ezrahi said.
"They are making it globally, and we are proud of them," he added, "like we are proud of our soccer and basketball players when they make it internationally."
If there was a turning point in Israeli attitudes toward business, it was the development in late 1996 of an instant-messaging system by four army friends in their early 20's who distributed their software free on the Internet.
Their tiny company, Mirabilis, with the real-time e-mail system they called ICQ, was soon serving an Internet following in the millions.
In the summer of 1998, America Online snapped up the 19-month-old company for $380 million in cash and stock, then the largest foreign purchase of a local company in Israeli history. The sale not only made the young founders very rich; it also transformed them into local media stars, with commentators comparing them to the Israeli commando heroes of Entebbe and the Six-Day War.
"In 19 months, starting from zero, they created $400 million in value," said Mr. Vardi, who as the father of Arik Vardi, one of the founders, became the company's first business manager.
"It galvanized the whole country and made us all a little insane," he said. "The whole country got into a frenzy of Internet projects. Everybody wanted to be an entrepreneur."
It is a measure of how much and how quickly expectations and ambitions have changed that the Mirabilis founders are now criticized as having sold out too soon, and for too little. They and their company are now merely a small, Israeli-based division of the expanding AOL empire.
Still, one immediate result of the "Mirabilis effect," as it was called on Israel's business pages, was that hundreds of affluent Israelis were suddenly willing to bankroll their brilliant nephews' computer doodlings; scores of professional investors followed.
Israel has since become one of the most prolific incubators of technology companies in the world. Hundreds were founded last year alone.
A new survey of 10 industrialized countries by Babson College and the London Business School showed that Israel is surpassed by only the United States and Canada on several measures of entrepreneurial initiative, from the prevalence of independent start-up companies to the share of the adult population -- 5.4 percent -- reporting direct involvement in new business ventures.
Perhaps more significant, the researchers found a big change in attitudes towards business here -- a shift that many people attribute to Mirabilis.
"Social norms now stress individualism, materialism and independence," they reported. "The entrepreneur has become Israel's newest cultural hero and role model, a figure to be respected and emulated by large parts of the younger generation."
 
The Money
An Ever-Rising Tide Of Foreign Capital
Israeli entrepreneurs are enjoying not only local social acceptance, but also unprecedented foreign financial backing.
The central bank reported that Israeli companies raised two-thirds of their funds abroad last year, largely from American stock offerings; a decade ago, barely 10 percent of private-sector capital was from overseas.
By some estimates, American venture capitalists alone pumped $1 billion into new Israeli businesses in 1999, outpacing the $900 million in official United States economic aid that Israel received.
This month, in just one sign of growing investor interest, the American Internet pioneers Marc Andreeson (formerly of Netscape Communications), Jerry Yang (Yahoo), and Pierre Omidyar (eBay) helped bankroll a new $180 million seed fund for Israeli Internet start-ups.
But the money comes with a condition. Almost all venture capitalists -- Israeli and foreign alike -- are requiring new companies to establish their headquarters in the United States, as a prelude to a Nasdaq offering or a takeover by an American multinational.
The largest of the high-technology expatriates is Amdocs, a voice mail and telephone billing specialist now allied with SBC Communications, the former Southwestern Bell. Once a small Israeli software developer, Amdocs is now worth about $13 billion. It employs more than 3,000 technicians and engineers here, but has its headquarters in Chesterfield, Mo.; it has also hired American senior managers.
Comverse, valued at more than $11 billion, has also lost much of its Israeli identity. "Comverse is not an Israeli company; it is an international company with a strong presence in Israel," said Mr. Alexander, pointing to its Woodbury, N.Y., headquarters and its recent inclusion in the Standard & Poor's 500. But, he quickly added, "the heart and soul of the company is in Israel" -- including the vital research and development division.
The trend is accelerating. By one common estimate, some 10,000 Israelis now work in Silicon Valley, many in companies that also originated in Israel -- including surging innovators like the DSP Group, a $1.2 billion software designer, and Vyyo, a wireless Internet broadcaster that is the latest venture of Davidi Gilo, a Tel Aviv entrepreneur who sold his previous company to Intel for $1.7 billion last year.
An American corporate identity is a better global sales strategy, many people contend, while the taint of political risk still associated with the Middle East is believed to depress stock values of companies registered here. Moreover, Mr. Vardi argued, integration into the American marketplace, with its technological ferment, is an inevitable and even desirable consequence of globalization.
"The whole success of the Israeli high-tech sector has been based on an alliance with the major American players," he said.
In any event, Israeli taxes and regulations are a disincentive for incorporating at home. Irked entrepreneurs cite what they see as archaic restraints on their management freedom; an Israeli public company sometimes cannot buy another business or give new employees stock options without convening a shareholders meeting, they complain.
"The rules are forcing every Israeli company with any brains to set up shop overseas," said Mr. Medved, the venture capitalist.
Check Point, with its headquarters here even though most of its 800 employees are stationed abroad, remains the most prominent exception -- one reason that Mr. Shwed, a vocal champion of Israeli registry, has such a following here.
"That is who we are," Mr. Shwed said. "We are a global company that operates from both Israel and the United States, and the fact that we are Israelis is a fact."
Check Point, like other companies here in the computer security trade, occupies a business niche where being identifiably Israeli may be an advantage. Even the company's name (unconsciously, Mr. Shwed says) evokes its Israeli military heritage.
Mr. Shwed says Check Point proves that young Israeli companies are wrong when they contend that they have to leave home to succeed.
"Obviously, I don't think it is good for Israel," he said. "But I also think it is not good for these companies. I think some of these companies are doing it because they don't look at building a real business as their goal. The idea is to be sexy for two years and sell out for a lot of money. I don't believe in that business model."
A better model, he suggested, would be Nokia of Finland or Ericsson of Sweden -- global companies competing successfully from small countries.
Some American industry leaders concur.
"If I were a government adviser, I would devote a lot of attention to ensuring that the success stories stay here," said Charles B. Wang, the chairman of Computer Associates International, on a visit to Israel earlier this year.
Mr. Wang is no detached bystander. He recently paid $600 million for three Israeli companies -- all of them Internet security specialists -- and added their 250 employees to his global work force of 17,000.
Israel "has all the technological know-how to become a major player," he said, but it needs comparable marketing expertise -- something best developed by building its own multinationals.
"Otherwise," Mr. Wang warned, "you become a minor league system," developing talent and technology for others.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yair Goldfinger, left, chief technical officer of Mirabilis, and Sethy Visiger, its president, in the Internet start-up's Tel Aviv office in 1998. (James Estrin/The New York Times); Danny Lewin, foreground, an Israeli mathematician, has flirted with billionaire status as a co-founder of Akamai Technologies. He studied a screen in the company's network operations center with Paul Sagan, Akamai's president. (Jim Bourg for The New York Times); Through their venture capital firm BRM, Yuval Rakavy, far right, and Nir Barkat own a portfolio of shares in public and private technology companies, including 30 percent of Backweb Technologies. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)(pg. 12); Cell phones, a pervasive symbol of technological wealth, can even be seen at Jerusalem's Western Wall. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times); (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Yossi Vardi, a technology entrepreneur, says Israel's military engineering skills are useful in the Internet age. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)(pg. 13)
 
Charts: "Pioneering Spirit"
Based on polling in 10 countries, Israelis appear to be among the industrial world's most avid backers of entrepreneurship.
 
Start-up rate
Percentage of respondents involved in creating a new company in the previous year.*
 
U.S. -- 8.4%
Canada -- 6.8
Israel -- 5.4
Italy -- 3.4
Britain -- 3.3
Germany -- 2.2
Denmark -- 2.0
France -- 1.8
Japan -- 1.6
Finland -- 1.4
 
Investor participation rate
Percentage of respondents who directly invested in a start-up founded by someone else in the previous three years.+
 
U.S. -- 5.5%
Canada -- 3.4
Israel -- 6.4
Italy -- 2.2
Britain -- 2.5
Germany -- 4.4
Denmark -- 2.9
France -- 4.4
Japan -- 0.6
Finland -- 2.5
 
*Respondent expected to own all or part of a business which had not yet paid salaries for more than three months.
+Does not include investments in stocks or mutual funds.
 
(Source: Global Entrepreneurship Monitor: 1999 Executive Report,Babson College)(pg. 12)
 
AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES
Headquarters in Cambridge, Mass. Develops Internet software. Founded in 1998; went public in 1999.
 
1999 REVENUE: $4 million ($0 in 1998)
1999 LOSS: $58 million ($890,000 in 1998)
MARKET CAP: $6 billion
52-WEEK LOW, HIGH: $26, $345.50
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $64.875
 
BACKWEB TECHNOLOGIES
Headquarters in San Jose, Calif. Develops Internet software. Founded in 1996; went public in 1999.
 
1999 REVENUE: $23 million (up 144% from 1998)
1999 LOSS: $11 million ($15 million in 1998)
MARKET CAP: $583 million
52-WEEK LOW, HIGH: $12, $59.125
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $15.75
(pg. 12)
 
"Promised Land"
Technology start-ups are transforming Israel's economy, tapping American financial markets and turning their chief executives into national heroes. The Amidex35, an index of Israel's biggest companies by market capitalization -- mainly technology businesses -- has outperformed the Nasdaq over the last 16 months.
 
Gil Shwed, CHECK POINT SOFTWARE
Headquarters in Ramat Gan, Israel. Develops computer data security systems. Founded in 1993; went public in 1996.
 
1999 REVENUE: $220 million (up 55% from 1998)
1999 EARNINGS: $96 million (up 37% from 1998)
MARKET CAP: $10.9 billion
52-WEEK LOW-HIGH: $15.03, $295
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $149.625
 
Kobi Alexander, COMVERSE TECHNOLOGY
Headquarters in Woodbury, N.Y. Develops telecommunications systems and software. Founded in 1984; went public in 1992.
 
1999 REVENUE: $872 million (up 25% from 1998)
1999 EARNINGS: $170 million (up 53% from 1998)
MARKET CAP: $11.3 billion
52-WEEK LOW-HIGH: $25.75, $123.875
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $73.9375
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CHKP (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (93%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHECK POINT SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGIES GMBH (57%); CHECK POINT SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGIES LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (97%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (93%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ISRAEL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); TRENDS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); 

PERSON: RICK PERRY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



425 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Goldilocks And the Bears

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Investors buy because others are buying, sell because others are selling. When stock prices are rising, it's called "momentum investing"; when they are falling, it's called "panic." And panic, which had been building all week, broke out in full on Friday.
One of the biggest losers in the final sell-off was Tiffany's: the price of the jeweler's shares abruptly fell 13 percent, apparently because investors feared that it was especially vulnerable to a market decline. And they may well be right. ("He's your guy/ when stocks are high,/ but beware when they start to descend./ It's then that those louses/ go back to their spouses./ Diamonds are a girl's best friend.") But will the turmoil in the stock markets spill over, not just into jewelry, but into the real economy generally? Is this the end of the "Goldilocks economy"? 
 It's happened before. Never mind 1929 -- that stock slump occurred in an environment of institutional weakness and sheer policy stupidity that I think (I hope) no longer exists. We aren't going to raise interest rates to peg the dollar to gold, or allow banks to tumble like dominoes. The example to worry about is Japan in the 90's -- an economic juggernaut that stumbled badly after the burst of a financial bubble, and even a decade later has by no means regained its former vigor.
And indeed, some Japanese have been arguing for years that any day now the United States is going to go through the same comeuppance they experienced -- that our "new economy" is as fragile, perhaps illusory, as their bubble economy of the late 1980's. And after the last week a few Americans may be wondering if they have a point.
But I've been obsessed with Japan's economic problems for years -- it really bothered me to see a wealthy, politically stable country seemingly unable to pull itself out of a simple demand-side slump. I think I have some idea why in their case what started as a mere paper loss ramified into something much worse. And to me America's prospects of avoiding a similar fate look very good.
Broadly speaking, there are three ways that a stock slump can turn into a prolonged recession. First, a decline in stock prices can expose an underlying lack of good projects for businesses to invest in. Second, falling prices of assets can undermine corporate balance sheets, leaving companies unable to make investments no matter how justified. Third, a financial slump can inspire perverse government actions -- like raising interest rates to defend your exchange rate even as the real economy implodes.
On the first count: America is in the midst of a technological revolution -- unlike Japan, which in 1990 was at the end, not the beginning, of a productivity surge. And demography is on our side: a steadily growing work force, thanks in part to immigration, should help to sustain continuing high investment.
On the second count, things could be much worse. There has been some increase in corporate debt in recent years -- and some individuals have, of course, gotten overextended. But we don't need yet more dot-coms to keep the economy going, and by and large the prospect that companies other than dot-coms will find themselves unable to pursue profitable investment projects because they are unable to raise the cash seems remote.
On the final count: Sometimes it's good to be big. The United States has a huge economy, which despite growing international trade is not all that dependent on imports. So even if the new nervousness on Wall Street drives down the value of the dollar -- certainly a possibility --- the Federal Reserve won't feel that it has to raise interest rates to prop up our currency. Nor need we fear, the way smaller Asian countries did in 1997-98, that we will be crushed by the burden of foreign-currency debts: we do have debts to foreigners, but relative to the size of our economy they aren't that large -- and anyway (shhh! don't tell anyone) they're in dollars.
So the best bet has to be that our real economy will come through this nervous period more or less unscathed; it's been ugly in the markets, but it isn't the end of the world; Goldilocks is still alive and well. And anyone who has been selling on the belief that it is the end of the world ought to take a deep breath and calm down. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PRICE INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



426 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: A Market in Need of a Broker

BYLINE: By Ron Chernow; "Ron Chernow, the author of "Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr.," is currently writing a biography of Alexander Hamilton.

 BODY:
As the Nasdaq plunged into bear market territory this week, we suddenly beheld the dark side of democratization on Wall Street. The speculative bubble in technology stocks may be the first in history to feature small investors as the driving force behind the mayhem instead of its belated, gullible recruits.
For most of Wall Street history, the proverbial "little people" regarded stock investing as a form of black magic and followed the lead of market insiders. A vintage image of the 1920's is of a chauffeur or bootblack eavesdropping on rich clients and rushing off to profit on hot stock tips. Figures like John J. Raskob, financial adviser to the Du Ponts, and William C. Durant, founder of General Motors, assumed heroic stature as market buccaneers. 
 Investors flocked to investment trusts, precursors of today's mutual funds, that often traded at absurd premiums to their underlying assets. Why? Because investors glorified the trusts' managers as infallible founts of financial wisdom. In this unregulated market, professional speculators, organized into pools, openly manipulated more than 100 stocks on the Big Board. Far from being unnerved by these gamblers, small investors welcomed them as public benefactors who considerately kept prices high.
Like the Nasdaq ebullience of the 1990's, the "irrational exuberance" of the 1920's was a case of rational exuberance run amok. Production, employment and wages steadily advanced while inflation remained subdued. Investors thrilled to dazzling new technologies, including radio, motion pictures, automobiles and airlines. In this innovative age, chain stores pioneered new distribution methods while electric utility holding companies experimented with new corporate forms. Investors had ample reason to celebrate.
As in every stock bubble, the speculative tempo accelerated, culminating in a final phase in which the market soared vertically. Investor attention narrowed to a handful of allegedly foolproof stocks -- Radio Corporation of America, United States Steel, Westinghouse and Montgomery Ward -- much like Microsoft, Cisco, Yahoo and Intel today.
This pattern recurred in the aftermath of the protracted 1960's boom, when growth stocks dubbed the Nifty Fifty -- boasting technology leaders like Xerox, General Electric and I.B.M. -- formed an indispensable part of every portfolio. Small investors still deferred to Wall Street demigods, whether "gunslinging" money managers like Gerald Tsai of the Manhattan Fund or corporate chieftans like Harold Geneen, president of I.T.T. and leading architect of the conglomerate boom.
Once again, in the Reagan boom, professional traders and raiders (Carl Icahn, Boone Pickens, and Michael Milken spring to mind) set the frothy tone that lured in small investors.
As we all know, by the early 1990's, small investors possessed the means to vie with professionals on an equal footing. The Internet and other information technologies slashed stock commissions, glutted investors with information and provided instant trading quotes. The advent of 401(k) plans shifted the investing onus from corporate managers to often unsophisticated employees.
The trend, we were told, promised manifold blessings. Vast flows of money into the market would give it new depth and balance, demoting the swashbuckling speculators of old. And in a country that preened itself on its populist roots, who couldn't cheer a development that divided profits more equitably?
At first, the novice investors proved surprisingly mannerly. Tutored to buy and hold good stocks, they turned to broad-based mutual funds for professional management and diversification.
But the giddy annual rises in the market averages persuaded many that the risks in common stock were overblown. They began to switch money from stodgy mutual funds into fast-growing companies or funds dedicated to high tech, biotech and telecommunications. Main Street began to drive Wall Street, inverting the power structure and dethroning brokers, investment bankers and money managers as ultimate market arbiters.
Unlike the 1920's, 1960's and 1980's, the current Nasdaq bubble has lacked those oracular professionals and storied insiders who symbolized earlier booms. (Perhaps the best claimant to certified guru status is the analyst Abby Joseph Cohen of Goldman, Sachs, who has cooled on the market of late.) Welded together by Internet chat rooms and nonstop cable television coverage, legions of retail investors have formed a critical mass of opinion, rudely casting aside the wisdom of such value investors as Warren Buffett.
Should Wall Street be absolved of responsibility for the lunatic levels reached by tech stocks? By no means. Our most prestigious investment houses have invented bogus mathematical formulas to justify stratospheric stock prices and have fed the inexhaustible appetite of small investors for Internet businesses that are little more than concepts dressed up as companies. Yet at the same time, many Wall Street veterans have repeatedly warned of the insane valuations of tech stocks. And the industry is rife with asset managers coerced by competitive pressures into buying stocks they knew were overvalued.
The widespread involvement of ordinary Americans has made this bubble more volatile and hazardous than its predecessors. Adding further worry is that many high-flying companies lack any pretense of profitability -- a small defect that would have deprived them of a decent stock market listing before the 1970's.
This is not to say that there are no redeeming factors in the current scene. The tech boom depressed many old economy stocks whose recent resurgence may act as a stabilizer (although Friday's performance of the Dow dimmed hope for this prospect). The structure of many 401(k) plans dictates that money will flow into other financial assets as it flows out of the bloated tech sector, buoying the bond market and undervalued stocks.
The Nasdaq mania has shattered the hierarchy of Wall Street, with the professionals forced to abdicate authority to the amateurs. While brokers and financial planners are scarcely saints and have contributed to past bubbles, they can, potentially, provide historic perspective to temper the wilder excesses of new investors. Perhaps if the Nasdaq continues to tumble, professional expertise will actually come back into vogue, and the dull imperatives of profit and loss will again govern stock prices.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Ulriksen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); X (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); US 401K PLANS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: CHERNOW, RON MICHAEL MILKEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



427 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Why Is This Man Smiling?;
Executive Pay Drops Off the Political Radar

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
IN 1992, Bill Clinton denounced the soaring salaries of America's chief executives and vowed to do something about them if he won the presidency. Sure enough, in his first year in office he pushed through a law that slapped a new tax on some companies paying their top executives more than $1 million. At the time, the typical chief executive of a large company was making about $3 million a year in salary, bonus and stock awards.
In the eight years since, chief executives' average pay has more than tripled to $11.9 million, according to Pearl Meyer & Partners, a pay consulting firm in New York. The average corporate chieftain now makes more in a single day than the typical American worker makes in a year. 
 Along the way, executive pay has managed to disappear as a political issue.
George W. Bush and Al Gore do not mention it. Even as they battle over the next seven months to position themselves as reformers, executive salaries seem unlikely to enter the debate.
Their vanquished rivals paid it scant attention, too. Bill Bradley said the rich have a right to get richer but should feel a moral obligation to spread the wealth. And John McCain even disavowed a bill he had co-sponsored in 1997 that would have made it more difficult for companies to pay their executives with stock options.
These days, however, the populist issue has paled. The media's annual lists of the fattest corporate cats, which have been appearing in recent weeks at the same time many stocks have turned south, have caused little protest. The political paradox is fascinating: a candidate makes hay out of a perceived problem and wins an election; the problem worsens but the issue vanishes.
Part of the explanation is simple. The American economy has been the envy of the world in recent years as it has enjoyed the longest expansion in its history. Executives, be they savvy bosses like General Electric's John F. Welch or Internet wunderkinds, are getting much of the credit. In the last two years, European companies have begun to pay their bosses more like American executives in an effort to produce similar results.
Even in the current volatile stock market, where many stocks are worth less today than they were a year ago, executives have persuaded corporate boards and shareholders to fork over bigger and bigger awards -- some of which do not depend on share prices. Still, outrage is minimal.
"Who wants to criticize a nine-year boom?" said Ira T. Kay, an executive compensation consultant at Watson Wyatt Associates in New York and a prominent defender of current C.E.O. pay levels. "You want to hold your breath until it continues to a 10th or 11th year."
Opponents of sky-high salaries say they cannot argue. "As long as the economy stays good and most people are very hopeful about their personal economic future, no one's terribly concerned about excessive C.E.O. pay," said Robert B. Reich, who served as Mr. Clinton's secretary of labor.
It helps, too, that the new mega-millionaires have donated liberally to both Governor Bush and Vice President Gore. If there is one issue on which Silicon Valley executives will brook little dissent, it is the generous accounting rules for stock options. The laws on options "have become the new third rail of American politics," said Patrick S. McGurn, a vice president at Institutional Shareholder Services of Rockville, Md., which advises large investors.
But the speed with which the political winds have shifted suggests that more than economic indicators and political gifts are at work. Early in 1996, after a series of layoffs at big companies around the country, Newsweek ran a cover article titled "Corporate Killers," which pilloried businessmen who had fired workers but still earned millions of dollars. A few days later, Pat Buchanan won the New Hampshire Republican primary while blasting American business and credited his victory to "peasants with pitchforks" storming the Republican establishment. The next year, Mr. McCain made his proposal on stock options.
On its face, the political situation seems similar today. Big layoffs, like those announced at Coca-Cola and Xerox earlier this year, continue to accompany the economic expansion. And the average pay for a C.E.O. has more than doubled since 1996, according to Pearl Meyer. But there is nary an article on the new Corporate Killer nor have pitchfork-wielding peasants appeared.
THE changing attitude of Americans toward money may be responsible. Since the 1996 election, hundreds of recent college graduates and mid-level workers have become millionaires, thanks mostly to the Internet boom.
Suddenly, an $11.9 million pay package looks less unusual. The attitude has spread to popular culture. To paraphrase the television hit, most Americans want to be millionaires, not criticize them.
Over the long term, however, such feelings could set the stage for a new political firestorm over executive pay. When the economy eventually slows -- and the plunge of technology stocks last week suggests that the time may not be far off -- struggling workers are more likely to reconsider their views on big pay packages. "We're in a rare moment of history in which there seems to be a gulf between money and effort," said Mr. Reich, a professor at Brandeis University.
If that gulf seemed like an inviting political target in 1992 when the typical chief executive made 100 times what the typical employee did, it could be irresistible when the multiple is closer to 400. At that point, C.E.O.'s could face a choice between accepting a large pay cut or waging an unpopular political fight. They might then look back at the early months of 2000 as that unusual period when they could enjoy both record paychecks and the presidential campaign.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The average C.E.O. makes more in one day than the typical worker makes in a year. Paging Donald Trump. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION WAGES & SALARIES (95%); EXECUTIVES (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRENDS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); STOCK OPTIONS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BONUS PAY (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID BILL CLINTON (88%); DONALD TRUMP (59%); AL GORE (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JACK WELCH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



428 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Ousting Snowmobiles From Yellowstone

 BODY:
Most midwinter days, a triple or quadruple line of snowmobiles gathers on the snow-packed roadway at the West Yellowstone, Mont., entrance to Yellowstone National Park. In some ways, the scene looks much the same as it does in midsummer, when the entrance is crowded with cars and R.V.'s. But there is a difference. Snowmobiles are much noisier. They snarl and whine and pop. They also run on two-cycle engines, which emit far greater amounts of hydrocarbons and particulate matter than automobiles do. In winter, fresh air is pumped to the ranger station at the entrance, so bad is the pollution there. Once inside the park, snowmobilers travel snow-packed highways that are the main corridors for bison, which find it hard to negotiate Yellowstone's deep snows. Encounters between machine and beast occur every day, and harassment is routine.
Yellowstone is studying a plan to ban snowmobiles in the park beginning in 2002. Snowcoaches -- snow-going buses -- would still operate, carrying cross-country skiers and other tourists. Snowmobile enthusiasts, some businesses in West Yellowstone and most members of the Congressional delegations from Montana, Idaho and Wyoming oppose the ban. They argue that it would seriously impair West Yellowstone's economy and that such decisions should be made at a local, not a federal, level. The logic of the ban is buttressed by Environmental Protection Agency studies of snowmobile pollution and a report by the air resources division of the National Park Service. Snowmobiles make up only one-sixteenth of Yellowstone's vehicular traffic. But they generate up to 68 percent of all the carbon monoxide and up to 90 percent of all the hydrocarbons emitted in the park. This is to say nothing of the noise pollution they cause. 
 In fact, West Yellowstone does not need to fear the loss of snowmobiling in Yellowstone National Park. According to research by the Greater Yellowstone Coalition, a local conservation group, the town receives just 30 percent of its annual sales-tax revenues between November and April, the months when snowmobiling dominates the economy. The park's roadways form only a small part of an enormous web of snowmobile trails that also crisscross Bureau of Land Management and National Forest acreage. So far, the number of cross-country skiers coming to West Yellowstone to ski in the park has been kept to a minimum simply because it is so unpleasant to ski among snowmobiles. When they are gone, the skiers are expected to come in droves. A snowmobile ban actually promises increased economic diversity and winter prosperity in West Yellowstone. It also promises that rare quality -- something that should be innate to Yellowstone in winter -- silence.
The Congressional delegations from the neighboring states have begun to close ranks against the ban in response to pressure from snowmobilers. Only Senator Max Baucus, from Montana, has taken the trouble to schedule meetings with residents and business owners from West Yellowstone. What he will hear in those meetings is that resistance to the snowmobile ban is less uniform than it appears. As many of their owners know, the welfare of West Yellowstone businesses depends on the welfare of the park, which is best served by this ban. This may look to some like a local issue, but Yellowstone remains a national park. Snowmobiling conflicts with the ideal of unimpaired nature it embodies. And by claiming a right of access to Yellowstone Park, snowmobilers deny it to anyone else who would go there in winter, unless they can tolerate urban levels of air pollution and noise. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (54%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (54%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST YELLOWSTONE (MONT); UNITED STATES (94%); MONTANA, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK; EDITORIALS; SNOWMOBILES; SKIING; NOISE; AIR POLLUTION; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); NATIONAL PARKS (92%); SNOWMOBILING (90%); SKIING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); PARTICULATE MATTER (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); NOISE POLLUTION (74%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); CARBON MONOXIDE (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); SALES TAX (61%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



429 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Access to Airports

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your April 10 editorial "Hope on the Transit Horizon" praises planners who dare to think about "big new transportation schemes" for New York City. But it sounds a sour note when it asserts that a rail link to La Guardia Airport "needs better justification than it has so far been given."
The economic and cost benefits of a rail link to La Guardia far outweigh those of a Second Avenue subway or a Long Island Rail Road link to Grand Central Terminal. A one-seat ride to both La Guardia and Kennedy Airport -- similar to what London, Paris and Rome already offer -- should be the first priority for enhancing the city's tax base. 
 It should not take another quarter century to build a rail link to two locations that pump billions of dollars into our region's economy, employ tens of thousands of workers and serve travelers who make New York the commercial, communications and financial capital of the world.
 
CLAIRE SHULMAN
Queens Borough President
Kew Gardens, Queens, April 10, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (53%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; AIRPORTS; LA GUARDIA AIRPORT (NYC); RAILROADS; GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL (NYC) AIRPORTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (71%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: SHULMAN, CLAIRE (BORO PRES)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



430 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: A Weakened I.R.S.

 BODY:
Years of pummeling by Congress have so weakened the Internal Revenue Service -- eroding its budget, staff and spirit -- that the agency has largely abandoned efforts to detect tax fraud among the rich and powerful, or even among ordinary taxpayers. The threat that the agency will audit an individual's tax form is shrinking toward zero. The odds that the I.R.S., having caught you in a mistake, will seize property or even levy a fine are also plummeting. Even the threat that a diligent collection agent will pressure people who owe back taxes is quickly disappearing.
Perversely, the agency's priorities have been so distorted by Congress that it is now more apt to audit a poor person than a rich person, and a small business than a large corporation. Nobody knows how much tax cheating is going on because Congress has also eliminated the random audits once used to estimate the extent of tax evasion. The sad result is that a tax system that has long relied on Americans to calculate honestly how much they owe the government -- and is the envy of other nations -- is at risk of being subverted. 
 The source of the problem is Congress, which has slashed the agency's budget by almost 30 percent since the 1980's. As a result, the number of I.R.S. employees has dropped about 15 percent over the past seven years, even though the number and the complexity of returns are rising quickly, in part because soaring stock values and a fast-rising economy have generated many more forms from many more high-income families. The agency's job has also been made more difficult by an explosion of clever new tax dodges designed by corporations -- a problem that has grown large enough to qualify, according to Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers, as the agency's primary enforcement issue.
Congress and the Clinton administration directed the agency to spend a disproportionate share of its dwindling resources on monitoring overpayment of tax credits to low-paid workers. It is true that many recipients of the earned-income tax credit, out of confusion or malice, claim more than they are truly owed. But that is hardly a central tax collection issue. Meanwhile, Congress, fired up by anecdotal reports of taxpayers being abused, passed a bill in 1998 that requires the agency to fire agents who harass taxpayers. Enforcement of that provision has left unclear the line between harassment and diligence, causing some agents to say they have backed off from vigorously collecting taxes out of fear of punishment.
The harm done by Congressional cutbacks and antagonism can be seen in data to be posted today by researchers on a Syracuse University Web site, and reported in today's Times. The poor are now more likely to be audited than the rich. One in every 74 taxpayers reporting income below $25,000 and filing an uncomplicated return was audited last year. By contrast, 1 in every 87 taxpayers whose income was above $100,000 was audited. A dozen years ago, one in every nine of those high-income taxpayers would have been audited. The same skewed priorities have permeated business audits. Proprietorships with small sales volume were audited more frequently than those with high volume.
Audits of the self-employed with gross receipts over $100,000 were cut by about 55 percent between 1988 and 1999. Only 1 in every 66 corporations was audited last year, the lowest rate in 86 years.
Collection of delinquent taxes has also fallen precipitously. Levies on bank accounts and other assets have fallen about 85 percent since 1992 and seizures of property have fallen 98 percent, from 10,000 cases as recently as 1997 to just 161 last year. The amount of money collected through enforcement actions has fallen 13 percent since 1996.
The question arises whether the drop in enforcement effort has diminished compliance. Compliance is hard to measure. Congress eliminated the program in 1995 by which the agency used to conduct extensive -- and invasive -- audits on a large sample of taxpayers to determine how well they complied with the tax laws.
The commissioner of internal revenue, Charles Rossotti, has struggled hard to correct as many problems as his budget allows. He has also provided the data that allows the academics at Syracuse University and other outsiders to judge what is going on. The commissioner himself warns that the lack of audits threatens to "undermine our entire system of voluntary tax compliance." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; EDITORIALS; TAX EVASION TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX FRAUD (92%); TAX LAW (92%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (75%); FAMILY (64%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



431 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 20; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: Ways to Deflate the Bubble

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Action Plan for a Reluctant Greenspan" (Economic View, March 26), which discussed possible ways to take some air out of the stock market bubble:
What has led to the overvaluation of growth companies in the stock market is the lowering of the long-term capital gains tax -- to 20 percent for many investors -- without a commensurate decrease in taxes on dividends. The imbalance has prompted many people to shun dividend-paying companies and to value stocks only on the basis of the capital gains that they have generated recently. 
 In listing ways to curb market speculation, the column mentioned taxing short-term capital gains at a rate of 100 percent, thus encouraging more people to invest for the long term. But that idea does not address the root of the problem and is artificial. Why, for example, should an investment that is sold after 365 days be taxed differently from one sold after 364?
Another suggestion was to extend so-called suitability rules -- those requiring brokers to make sure that investments are appropriate for their customers -- to include day traders and online investors. But such a change would decrease the democratization of the capital markets by limiting investment choices for certain individuals.
On the other hand, lowering the tax rate on dividend income would make stock pricing more rational and would gradually end this era of irrational exuberance.
 
GLENN MILLER
Teaneck, N.J., March 26 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); DIVIDENDS (72%); BONDS (71%); 

PERSON: MILLER, GLENN

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



432 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Votes in Congress

 BODY:
Tally Last Week in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York.
 
Senate
 
1. Budget: Vote on a $1.87 trillion Republican budget outline for next year that calls for at least $150 billion in tax cuts over five years. It increases spending on the Pentagon and education, provides extra aid to farmers, cuts most domestic programs after taking account of inflation and sets aside at least $20 billion to help establish prescription drug coverage within Medicare. Approved 50 to 48, April 12.

	 		1	Connecticut	 	Dodd (D)	Nay	Lieberman (D)	Nay	New Jersey	 	Lautenberg (D)	Nay	Torricelli (D)	Nay	New York	 	Moynihan (D)	A	Schumer (D)	Nay	 

House
 
1. Crime: Vote on a bill that would send $100 million in block grants to states that impose mandatory minimum five-year sentences for criminals convicted of using or possessing a gun during a violent crime. The five-year sentence would be in addition to the sentence provided for the underlying crime. Approved 358 to 60, April 11.
 
2. Control: Vote on a $1.87 trillion Republican budget outline for next year that calls for at least $150 billion in tax cuts over five years. It increases spending on the Pentagon and education, provides extra aid to farmers, cuts most domestic programs after taking account of inflation and sets aside at least $20 billion to help establish prescription drug coverage within Medicare. Approved 220 to 208, April 12.
 
3. FM Airwaves: Vote on a bill that would curtail ambitious plans to open the FM airwaves to hundreds of new low-power stations for churches, community groups and schools. Approved 274 to 110, April 13.

	 	 	 		1	2	3	Connecticut	 	 	 	1. Larson (D)	Yea	Nay	Nay	2. Gejdenson (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	3. DeLauro (D)	Yea	Nay	Nay	4. Shays (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	5. Maloney (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	6. Johnson (R)	Yea	Nay	Yea	New Jersey	 	 	 	1. Andrews (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	2. LoBiondo (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	3. Saxton (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	4. Smith (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	5. Roukema (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	6. Pallone (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	7. Franks (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	8. Pascrell (D)	Yea	Nay	Nay	9. Rothman (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	10. Payne (D)	Nay	Nay	Nay	11. Frelinghuysen (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	12. Holt (D)	Yea	Nay	Nay	13. Menendez (D)	Yea	Nay	Nay	New York	 	 	 	1. Forbes (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	2. Lazio (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	3. King (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	4. McCarthy (D)	Yea	Nay	Nay	5. Ackerman (D)	Yea	Nay	Nay	6. Meeks (D)	Nay	Nay	Nay	7. Crowley (D)	Yea	Nay	Nay	8. Nadler (D)	Yea	Nay	Nay	9. Weiner (D)	Yea	Nay	Nay	10. Towns (D)	Nay	Nay	Nay	11. Owens (D)	Nay	Nay	Nay	12. Velazquez (D)	Nay	Nay	Nay	13. Fossella (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	14. Maloney (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	15. Rangel (D)	Nay	Nay	A	16. Serrano (D)	Nay	Nay	Nay	17. Engel (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	18. Lowey (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	19. Kelly (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	20. Gilman (R)	A	Yea	Yea	21. McNulty (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	22. Sweeney (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	23. Boehlert (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	24. McHugh (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	25. Walsh (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	26. Hinchey (D)	Nay	Nay	Nay	27. Reynolds (R)	Yea	Yea	Yea	28. Slaughter (D)	Yea	Nay	Nay	29. LaFalce (D)	Nay	Nay	Nay	30. Quinn (R)	Yea	Yea	A	31. Houghton (R)	Yea	A	A	
KEY: (A) Absent or did not vote; (P) Present. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US); SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); CRIME AND CRIMINALS; FIREARMS; FEDERAL AID (US); RADIO; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY SENTENCING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (86%); MEDICARE (76%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); CITIES (74%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (53%); POWER PLANTS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSA DELAURO (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



433 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Holiday Omits Diatribe Against U.S.

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, April 15

 BODY:
North Korea's drab capital city, Pyongyang, came to life today with thousands of North Koreans celebrating their biggest national holiday. But this year's festivities lacked the usual diatribe against the United States and South Korea.
The annual celebration of Sun's Day -- the birthday of the former president, Kim Il Sung -- came five days after North Korea agreed to hold a summit meeting with South Korea in June. The unprecedented agreement could bring the impoverished North badly needed economic aid. 
 North Korea, an isolated Communist state, usually marks the holiday with vows to battle what it calls American imperialist aggressors and their South Korean stooges.
"Pyongyang is transported with boundless joy on Sun's Day," said the North's official foreign news outlet, the North Korean Central News Agency, monitored in Seoul.
Long lines of people paid homage at the Kumsusan Memorial Palace, where Kim Il Sung, who founded and ruled North Korea for four decades until he died at age 82 in 1994, lies in state.
His son, Kim Jong Il, took power and faces the tough task of pulling his country out of a deep economic crisis.
The lack of anti-Western propaganda was all the more noticeable because the United States and its South Korean allies began a six-day joint military exercise today.
Military drills typically draw harsh rhetoric from the North, which considers them war preparations. This time, though, the reaction came from the South as 1,000 students and other demonstrators protested in a park in central Seoul. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

COMPANY: NORTH KOREAN CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

SUBJECT: NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



434 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Fighting to Help an Ohio City Shed Its Image as 'Crimetown U.S.A.'

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio, April 11

 BODY:
For all the pop culture amusement in "The Sopranos," "The Godfather" and their welter of bang-bang, ha-ha imitators, James B. Callen is decidedly not amused as he lives here through the reality as opposed to the entertainment of it all.
Mr. Callen, a 54-year-old lawyer, is rounding out two decades of trying to rouse outrage against this city's endemic bedevilment by organized crime. But he finds a benumbed citizenry all too casually expecting another indictment, No. 79 in a series, this time of its pugnacious and popular congressman, James A. Traficant Jr. 
 "I tell people it's not a question of personalities; it's a question of a community, its value structure, its culture," said Mr. Callen, the director of Ohio Legal Services. He noted that Representative Traficant campaigned quite successfully against Democratic primary challengers last month by positively predicting his own indictment and portraying himself as the victim of a Justice Department vendetta against this city and its people.
Mr. Traficant's success, in Mr. Callen's view, personifies the sorry tale of Youngstown, where another judge was indicted last week in the story line of reality, as opposed to escapist, entertainment.
Reality is a tired saga here that already includes a prosecutor gunned down after being deemed unbribable; the racketeering and murder-conspiracy conviction of Lenine (Lenny) Strollo, the local godfather worthy of central casting; the conviction of Mr. Traficant's late district manager as an admitted bagman for the mob; plus assorted county commissioners and patronage appointees gone bad, including a popular mob-busting prosecutor who was indicted on suspicion of being a secret agent of the mob.
And, most famously, there is the 1983 indictment of Mr. Traficant, who was then county sheriff, after he was recorded accepting $163,000 in bribes from organized-crime figures. A nonlawyer but a potent orator, Mr. Traficant defended himself in court and was acquitted as a folk hero who argued that he was secretly running a sting aimed at organized crime.
The specter of corrupted officials perennially vowing to root out corruption in this Mahoning Valley city prompted a bleak warning in 1997 from Thomas Moyer, the chief justice of the State Supreme Court: "The citizens of Mahoning County have reason to question whether the legal system is working for them."
The record shows that those who fight corruption put life and career at risk. Two county building inspectors were turned in two years ago by their superior, Stephen Berry, and he was soon targeted in a counterinvestigation. It proved fruitless, but he lost his job.
"I wouldn't play ball with these guys and look what happened to me," said Mr. Berry, who is suing for civil damages, presenting the ultimate Youngstown argument that government here amounts to a criminal enterprise. "My kids are going to grow up here," he said, articulating the outrage that Mr. Callen says is too often missing in this city's scandal story.
"They can put a thousand people in jail, but unless we change the culture in the community, the way we do business, it doesn't matter," said Mr. Callen, who began grass-roots organizing 19 years ago when he found the corruption of local government so pervasive that it was barely commented on by a passive citizenry.
"Unless the community culture changes, this place will be like 'Groundhog Day,' endlessly repeating itself," Mr. Callen predicted. The Citizens' League of Greater Youngstown, of which he is a founder, is a tenacious group that continues to believe that this dilapidated shell of a once-vital steel-mill city can someday shed its notoriety as "Crimetown U.S.A."
"We've been numbed by it all," said Bruce J. Beard, a business executive and a proud native of Youngstown. Like other area leaders, Mr. Beard now grieves for his city from the prosperous ring of nearby suburbia. But he works to help by bolstering the troubled Youngstown school system and volunteering through some resilient church groups.
"I remember Youngstown as a vibrant city, with an orange crust in the air from the open-hearth mills," Mr. Beard said of his youth 40 years ago. "But it was on the wane even then, and now we have written it off," he said of the city's failure to escape the mob image and, judging by the evidence of the continuing indictments, the mob itself.
Mr. Callen and other members of the Citizens' League fairly ache at the gruesome cliche of this city's life imitating gangster melodrama, down to the spates of car bombings and the car-bombing jokes that signal the public's impotence. The fact that the only obvious growth industry is in special federal task force indictments underlines Youngstown's failure to share in the suburban economic boom, which leaves it encircled like some ossified European city-state caught in a time warp.
That Old World image is at the heart of the blunt alarum to the city that has been delivered lately by Mr. Callen and his Citizens' League colleague Mark T. Shutes, an associate professor of anthropology at Youngstown State University.
"We support the ones who support our values," said Mr. Shutes, a specialist in the cultural ways of anachronistic hamlets in Ireland, Greece and Italy where the values of organized corruption in behalf of the powerless evolved as the antidote to despotic government. He noted that those values were seeded here across a century of immigration and blue-collar insularity, and when the steel mills failed and no new opportunity arrived, the old ideas stayed entrenched as a lucrative monopoly for organized crime.
"People here don't trust politicians who don't want to be brokers for them," Mr. Shutes said of the waves of reformers who come and go in this Democratic Party bastion. Some of them are incrementally successful, he noted, but others are finally corrupted in a pattern that reinforces the cynicism of the people. "They expect their politicians to do their dirty work and take their share in the bargain," he said.
There is no lack of calls for reform in the political arena. Mr. Traficant's chief primary challenger, State Senator Robert F. Hagan, made government corruption his main issue and went down fighting.
"I'm tired of dealing with this corruption," Mr. Hagan told voters. "I'm tired of people putting us down. I'm tired of the media showing up every time there's an indictment, and I think everyone here should be tired of it too."
Mr. Traficant maintains that the Justice Department, smarting from his earlier acquittal, is on a vindictive "fishing expedition" against him. He notes that task force investigators have been subpoenaing 15 years of his office records with a persistence that he predicts will find him indicted again.
"I have nothing to hide," he said during the primary, scrappy as ever as he contended it was he, not the Justice Department, who was Youngstown's anticorruption champion. "I have done nothing wrong," he declared, complaining that newspaper leaks about the investigation were efforts to influence the primary, which he won with 50 percent of the vote in a four-way race.
His critics find that relatively small percentage encouraging. But Mr. Traficant's Republican challenger, Paul Alberty, a computer consultant, ran against him on the corruption issue in 1998 and says he learned his lesson.
"Jim Traficant is a daunting figure in Youngstown politics," Mr. Alberty said. "This time out I'm emphasizing how the city has not been a part of the economic recovery going on all around us in Akron and other booming cities."
Youngstown has never seemed more jaded, in the view of Ray Butler, a 50-year-old native who is working for a long-shot victory by Mr. Alberty. "This city can be humorous, laughable," he said. "But after a while it's got to be seen as pathetic."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James B. Callen, a founder of the Citizens' League of Greater Youngstown, is concerned that his city takes corruption for granted. (Barney Taxel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: YOUNGSTOWN (OHIO); OHIO; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME; ETHICS; ELECTIONS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); INSPECTIONS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); CRIME RATES (76%); BRIBERY (76%); ETHICS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); COUNTIES (69%); SHOOTINGS (67%); ACQUITTAL (66%); DAMAGES (62%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; CALLEN, JAMES B; TRAFICANT, JAMES A JR (REPR) JAMES A TRAFICANT JR (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



435 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11; Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Backtalk;
Taking a Little Rest (When Testosterone Levels Are High)

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE

 BODY:
On a week when the Jets unaccountably jettisoned Keyshawn Johnson (was the new owner, a Johnson, afraid he might be confused with his wide receiver?) and the Rangers flirted with the possibility of fulfilling my wildest dreams and bringing back Mark Messier (but without his evil twin, Coach Mike Keenan, they will never make the pay-offs), a cybersports fan called Marcojcaputo questioned the decision of Mets Manager Bobby Valentine to "rest" Mike Piazza and Rey Ordonez during the first week of a season when it costs a family of four nearly $175 to attend a major league game. The first week? How had they exhausted themselves? Would they come out of the dugout in their robes and give the family its money back?
"All the more reason," declared Marcojcaputo, "that moms and dads should be the heros, and not the players. When was Cal Ripken rested? I can understand injuries. I remember Johnny Bench being rested, at either third base (or left field?) and Yogi was rested in the outfield as well. Valentine lost that game. Fitting?" 
 I love this e-mail. It feels like wandering outside the glass booth of the press zoo and sitting in the sun of the grandstand. The first week of TheLipsite@aol.com there was little response, many readers apparently thinking it was yet another lame joke from this corner. Who could blame you? But by the second week, the response was overwhelming. Keep writing, please, but don't be put off if some weeks I take the column back. It's mine.
Among the main threads of response have been to a magazine writer's suggestion that testosterone is the reason men usually beat women in most sports and to the manifesto from the academics of the Drake Group calling for an end to the "student-athlete" sham. Personally, I think the two threads may cross somewhere; college presidents drive the semipro sports show and it takes as much he-hormone to hustle big bucks as it does to buck the line.
Fiona Bayly of New York, who describes herself as a competitive runner and a sponsored triathlete, writes: "Many women can run faster/lift more weight/throw farther/aim better/use more skillful stick-work/balance longer and defend more tenaciously than many men. How come, when they have LESS testosterone?
"How come?
"I'll tell you how come: through hard work, through education, through desire, through experience, through talent, and through self-application towards fulfilling goals, that's how. Lots of sweat involved; lots of brain, too."
Karin Winegar, a member of the Frances Willard Society, named in honor of the author of "How I Learned to Ride the Bicycle: Reflections of an Influential 19th Century Woman," writes: "I'd like to point out that there are two sports where women compete equally with men: sailing (where men dominate, largely, because of economics) and riding (where women dominate, largely, because of passion for the sport). When we have horses or boats, the testosterone discrepancy is irrelevant."
Only money is considered more powerful than testosterone these days, and money is what college sports seem to be about. "Just license them!" cries Robert Britton of Richardson, Tex. "If colleges and universities license their names, logos and the like to apparel and other manufacturers, it's not a great leap to extend the concept to the teams. Let some corporation acquire rights to the Duke Blue Devils or whatever, and let the schools focus on what they're supposed to be doing -- educating people."
The idealism of the likes of Britton astounds me. Who says schools are supposed to educate people? If that were the case, why would Bob Knight, Jerry Tarkanian, John Thompson (add your own favorite student-coach) have been hired in the first place? In fact, toss in Coach K and JoePa, those saints of the sidelines (if you don't know who they are, write me privately.)
Greg Kannerstein, associate dean of Haverford College and director of athletics, has few illusions along with a certain Division III arrogance. He writes: "There's nothing wrong with the term 'student-athlete,' except the way it's been used as a cosmetic device in some Division I circles to cover up the presence of some athletes who are anything but students. The experience of a student who plays intercollegiate sports at any college is qualitatively different than that of a nonathlete and there's no reason to deny that.
"Rather than blaming the victims -- in this case, the alleged student-athletes, the Drake Group ought to go after the real culprit, the desire of many colleges to use athletic recognition for institutional prestige instead of focusing on its faculty, students and academic programs. Athletics is a convenient target but 'reform' will never succeed unless the mind-set which identifies Duke or Georgetown as teams, not colleges, and which seeks to evoke financial support for the institution through athletics no longer dominates."
Perhaps the problem is not with the athlete but with students such as ARIZJOE, who overwrites: "We are on the precipice of the Internet acting as a superego or a filter which will identify competitive sports as a fetish born of androgen and an antiquated vicarious pastime. This foofaraw was the etiologic agent in my matriculation to Ohio State University. In the dorm, I heard of the suppression of evidence in the case of a footballer who had committed a felony. When I questioned this aloud, an all-Big Ten defensive end lectured me, in his own way, that I had no standing. He bid defiantly, 'Athletes are better people than you.' His manner was unmistakenly truculent and threatening. He told me to shut up. At that moment I felt like I did when I learned there was no Santa Claus. Then the mantra of 'God is Dead' hit me. An epiphany of gridiron existentialism demeaned my soul."
As well it should.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Piazza of the Mets was given the afternoon off for a game in early April. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: DRAKE GROUP (61%); NEW YORK RANGERS (84%); NEW YORK JETS (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (84%); NEW YORK METS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS (84%); NEW YORK JETS (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (84%); NEW YORK METS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); WRITERS (69%); 

PERSON: MARK DOUGLAS MESSIER (58%); CAL RIPKEN JR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



436 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 4522 words

HEADLINE: SECRETS OF HISTORY: The C.I.A. in Iran -- A special report.;
How a Plot Convulsed Iran in '53 (and in '79)

BYLINE: By JAMES RISEN 

 BODY:
For nearly five decades, America's role in the military coup that ousted Iran's elected prime minister and returned the shah to power has been lost to history, the subject of fierce debate in Iran and stony silence in the United States. One by one, participants have retired or died without revealing key details, and the Central Intelligence Agency said a number of records of the operation -- its first successful overthrow of a foreign government -- had been destroyed.
But a copy of the agency's secret history of the 1953 coup has surfaced, revealing the inner workings of a plot that set the stage for the Islamic revolution in 1979, and for a generation of anti-American hatred in one of the Middle East's most powerful countries. 
 The document, which remains classified, discloses the pivotal role British intelligence officials played in initiating and planning the coup, and it shows that Washington and London shared an interest in maintaining the West's control over Iranian oil.
The secret history, written by the C.I.A.'s chief coup planner and obtained by The New York Times, says the operation's success was mostly a matter of chance. The document shows that the agency had almost complete contempt for the man it was empowering, Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlevi, whom it derided as a vacillating coward. And it recounts, for the first time, the agency's tortured efforts to seduce and cajole the shah into taking part in his own coup.
The operation, code-named TP-Ajax, was the blueprint for a succession of C.I.A. plots to foment coups and destabilize governments during the cold war -- including the agency's successful coup in Guatemala in 1954 and the disastrous Cuban intervention known as the Bay of Pigs in 1961. In more than one instance, such operations led to the same kind of long-term animosity toward the United States that occurred in Iran.
The history says agency officers orchestrating the Iran coup worked directly with royalist Iranian military officers, handpicked the prime minister's replacement, sent a stream of envoys to bolster the shah's courage, directed a campaign of bombings by Iranians posing as members of the Communist Party, and planted articles and editorial cartoons in newspapers.
But on the night set for Prime Minister Mohammed Mossadegh's overthrow, almost nothing went according to the meticulously drawn plans, the secret history says. In fact, C.I.A. officials were poised to flee the country when several Iranian officers recruited by the agency, acting on their own, took command of a pro-shah demonstration in Tehran and seized the government.
Two days after the coup, the history discloses, agency officials funneled $5 million to Iran to help the government they had installed consolidate power.
The outlines of the American role in the coup were disclosed in Iran at the outset and later in the memoirs of C.I.A. officers and other published accounts. But many specifics have remained classified, and the secret history obtained by The New York Times is the first detailed government account of the coup to be made public.
The C.I.A. has been slow to make available the Iran files. Two directors of central intelligence, Robert Gates and R. James Woolsey, vowed to declassify records of the agency's early covert actions, including the coup. But the agency said three years ago that a number of relevant documents had been destroyed in the early 1960's.
A C.I.A. spokesman said Friday that the agency had retained about 1,000 pages of documents related to the coup, besides the history and an internal account written later. He said the papers destroyed in the early 1960's were duplicates and working files.
The chief State Department historian said that his office received a copy of the history seven years ago but that no decision on declassifying it had yet been made.
The secret history, along with operational assessments written by coup planners, was provided to The Times by a former official who kept a copy.
It was written in March 1954 by Dr. Donald N. Wilber, an expert in Persian architecture, who as one of the leading planners believed that covert operatives had much to learn from history.
In less expansive memoirs published in 1986, Dr. Wilber asserted that the Iran coup was different from later C.I.A. efforts. Its American planners, he said, had stirred up considerable unrest in Iran, giving Iranians a clear choice between instability and supporting the shah. The move to oust the prime minister, he wrote, thus gained substantial popular support.
Dr. Wilber's memoirs were heavily censored by the agency, but he was allowed to refer to the existence of his secret history. "If this history had been read by the planners of the Bay of Pigs," he wrote, "there would have been no such operation."
"From time to time," he continued, "I gave talks on the operation to various groups within the agency, and, in hindsight, one might wonder why no one from the Cuban desk ever came or read the history."
The coup was a turning point in modern Iranian history and remains a persistent irritant in Tehran-Washington relations. It consolidated the power of the shah, who ruled with an iron hand for 26 more years in close contact with to the United States. He was toppled by militants in 1979. Later that year, marchers went to the American Embassy, took diplomats hostage and declared that they had unmasked a "nest of spies" who had been manipulating Iran for decades.
The Islamic government of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini supported terrorist attacks against American interests largely because of the long American history of supporting the shah. Even under more moderate rulers, many Iranians still resent the United States' role in the coup and its support of the shah.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, in an address in March, acknowledged the coup's pivotal role in the troubled relationship and came closer to apologizing than any American official ever has before.
"The Eisenhower administration believed its actions were justified for strategic reasons," she said. "But the coup was clearly a setback for Iran's political development. And it is easy to see now why many Iranians continue to resent this intervention by America in their internal affairs."
The history spells out the calculations to which Dr. Albright referred in her speech.
Britain, it says, initiated the plot in 1952. The Truman administration rejected it, but President Eisenhower approved it shortly after taking office in 1953, because of fears about oil and Communism.
The document pulls few punches, acknowledging at one point that the agency baldly lied to its British allies. Dr. Wilber reserves his most withering asides for the agency's local allies, referring to "the recognized incapacity of Iranians to plan or act in a thoroughly logical manner."
 
The Roots
Britain Fights Oil Nationalism
The coup had its roots in a British showdown with Iran, restive under decades of near-colonial British domination.
The prize was Iran's oil fields. Britain occupied Iran in World War II to protect a supply route to its ally, the Soviet Union, and to prevent the oil from falling into the hands of the Nazis -- ousting the shah's father, whom it regarded as unmanageable. It retained control over Iran's oil after the war through the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company.
In 1951, Iran's Parliament voted to nationalize the oil industry, and legislators backing the law elected its leading advocate, Dr. Mossadegh, as prime minister.
Britain responded with threats and sanctions. Dr. Mossadegh, a European-educated lawyer then in his early 70's, prone to tears and outbursts, refused to back down. In meetings in November and December 1952, the secret history says, British intelligence officials startled their American counterparts with a plan for a joint operation to oust the nettlesome prime minister.
The Americans, who "had not intended to discuss this question at all," agreed to study it, the secret history says. It had attractions. Anti-Communism had risen to a fever pitch in Washington, and officials were worried that Iran might fall under the sway of the Soviet Union, a historical presence there.
In March 1953, an unexpected development pushed the plot forward: the C.I.A.'s Tehran station reported that an Iranian general had approached the American Embassy about supporting an army-led coup.
The newly inaugurated Eisenhower administration was intrigued. The coalition that elected Dr. Mossadegh was splintering, and the Iranian Communist Party, the Tudeh, had become active.
Allen W. Dulles, the director of central intelligence, approved $1 million on April 4 to be used "in any way that would bring about the fall of Mossadegh," the history says.
"The aim was to bring to power a government which would reach an equitable oil settlement, enabling Iran to become economically sound and financially solvent, and which would vigorously prosecute the dangerously strong Communist Party."
Within days agency officials identified a high-ranking officer, Gen. Fazlollah Zahedi, as the man to spearhead a coup. Their plan called for the shah to play a leading role.
"A shah-General Zahedi combination, supported by C.I.A. local assets and financial backing, would have a good chance of overthrowing Mossadegh," officials wrote, "particularly if this combination should be able to get the largest mobs in the streets and if a sizable portion of the Tehran garrison refused to carry out Mossadegh's orders."
But according to the history, planners had doubts about whether the shah could carry out such a bold operation.
His family had seized Iran's throne just 32 years earlier, when his powerful father led a coup of his own. But the young shah, agency officials wrote, was "by nature a creature of indecision, beset by formless doubts and fears," often at odds with his family, including Princess Ashraf, his "forceful and scheming twin sister."
Also, the shah had what the C.I.A. termed a "pathological fear" of British intrigues, a potential obstacle to a joint operation.
In May 1953 the agency sent Dr. Wilber to Cyprus to meet Norman Darbyshire, chief of the Iran branch of British intelligence, to make initial coup plans. Assuaging the fears of the shah was high on their agenda; a document from the meeting said he was to be persuaded that the United States and Britain "consider the oil question secondary."
The conversation at the meeting turned to a touchy subject, the identity of key agents inside Iran. The British said they had recruited two brothers named Rashidian. The Americans, the secret history discloses, did not trust the British and lied about the identity of their best "assets" inside Iran.
C.I.A. officials were divided over whether the plan drawn up in Cyprus could work. The Tehran station warned headquarters that the "the shah would not act decisively against Mossadegh." And it said General Zahedi, the man picked to lead the coup, "appeared lacking in drive, energy and concrete plans."
Despite the doubts, the agency's Tehran station began disseminating "gray propaganda," passing out anti-Mossadegh cartoons in the streets and planting unflattering articles in the local press.
 
The Plotting
Trying to Persuade A Reluctant Shah
The plot was under way, even though the shah was a reluctant warrior and Mr. Eisenhower had yet to give his final approval.
In early June, American and British intelligence officials met again, this time in Beirut, and put the finishing touches on the strategy. Soon afterward, the chief of the C.I.A.'s Near East and Africa division, Kermit Roosevelt, a grandson of Theodore Roosevelt, arrived in Tehran to direct it.
The shah was a problem from the start. The plan called for him to stand fast as the C.I.A. stirred up popular unrest and then, as the country lurched toward chaos, to issue royal decrees dismissing Dr. Mossadegh and appointing General Zahedi prime minister.
The agency sought to "produce such pressure on the shah that it would be easier for him to sign the papers required of him than it would be to refuse," the secret history states. Officials turned to his sister for help.
On July 11, President Eisenhower finally signed off on the plan. At about the same time, C.I.A. and British intelligence officers visited Princess Ashraf on the French Riviera and persuaded her to return to Iran and tell her brother to follow the script.
The return of the unpopular princess unleashed a storm of protest from pro-Mossadegh forces. The shah was furious that she had come back without his approval and refused at first to see her. But a palace staff member -- another British agent, according to the secret history -- gained Ashraf access on July 29.
The history does not reveal what the siblings said to each other. But the princess gave her brother the news that C.I.A. officials had enlisted Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf in the coup campaign. General Schwarzkopf, the father of the Persian Gulf war commander, had befriended the shah a decade earlier while leading the United States military mission to Iran, and he told the agency "he was sure he could get the required cooperation."
The British, too, sought to sway the shah and assure him their agents spoke for London. A British agent, Asadollah Rashidian, approached him in late July and invited him to select a phrase that would then be broadcast at prearranged times on the BBC's Persian-language program -- as proof that Mr. Rashidian spoke for the British.
The exercise did not seem to have much effect. The shah told Mr. Rashidian on July 30 and 31 that he had heard the broadcast, but "requested time to assess the situation."
In early August, the C.I.A. stepped up the pressure. Iranian operatives pretending to be Communists threatened Muslim leaders with "savage punishment if they opposed Mossadegh," seeking to stir anti-Communist sentiment in the religious community.
In addition, the secret history says, the house of at least one prominent Muslim was bombed by C.I.A. agents posing as Communists. It does not say whether anyone was hurt in this attack.
The agency was also intensifying its propaganda campaign. A leading newspaper owner was granted a personal loan of about $45,000, "in the belief that this would make his organ amenable to our purposes."
But the shah remained intransigent. In an Aug. 1 meeting with General Schwarzkopf, he refused to sign the C.I.A.-written decrees firing Mr. Mossadegh and appointing General Zahedi. He said he doubted that the army would support him in a showdown.
During the meeting, the document says, the shah was so convinced that the palace was bugged that he "led the general into the grand ballroom, pulled a small table to its exact center" and got onto it to talk, insisting that the general do the same.
"This meeting was to be followed by a series of additional ones, some between Roosevelt and the shah and some between Rashidian and the shah, in which relentless pressure was exerted in frustrating attempts to overcome an entrenched attitude of vacillation and indecision," the history states.
Dr. Mossadegh had by now figured out that there was a plot against him. He moved to consolidate power by calling for a national referendum to dissolve Parliament.
The results of the Aug. 4 referendum were clearly rigged in his favor; The New York Times reported the same day that the prime minister had won 99.9 percent of the vote. This only helped the plotters, providing "an issue on which Mossadegh could be relentlessly attacked" by the agency-backed opposition press.
But the shah still wouldn't move against Dr. Mossadegh.
"On Aug. 3rd," the secret history says, "Roosevelt had a long and inconclusive session with the shah," who "stated that he was not an adventurer, and hence, could not take the chances of one.
"Roosevelt pointed out that there was no other way by which the government could be changed and the test was now between Mossadegh and his force and the shah and the army, which was still with him, but which would soon slip away."
Mr. Roosevelt told the shah "that failure to act could lead only to a Communist Iran or to a second Korea."
Still haunted by doubts, the shah asked Mr. Roosevelt if President Eisenhower could tell him what to do.
"By complete coincidence and great good fortune," the secret history says, "the president, while addressing the governors' convention in Seattle on 4 August, deviated from his script to state by implication that the United States would not sit by idly and see Iran fall behind the Iron Curtain."
By Aug. 10, the shah had finally agreed to see General Zahedi and a few army officers involved in the plot, but still refused to sign the decrees. The C.I.A. then sent Mr. Rashidian to say Mr. Roosevelt "would leave in complete disgust unless the shah took action within a few days."
The shah finally signed the decrees on Aug. 13. Word that he would support an army-led coup spread rapidly among the army officers backing General Zahedi.
 
The Coup
First Few Days Look Disastrous
The coup began on the night of Aug. 15 and was immediately compromised by a talkative Iranian Army officer whose remarks were relayed to Mr. Mossadegh.
The operation, the secret history says, "still might have succeeded in spite of this advance warning had not most of the participants proved to be inept or lacking in decision at the critical juncture."
Dr. Mossadegh's chief of staff, Gen. Taghi Riahi, learned of the plot hours before it was to begin and sent his deputy to the barracks of the Imperial Guard.
The deputy was arrested there, according to the history, just as pro-shah soldiers were fanning out across the city arresting other senior officials. Telephone lines between army and government offices were cut, and the telephone exchange was occupied.
But phones inexplicably continued to function, which gave Dr. Mossadegh's forces a key advantage. General Riahi also eluded the pro-shah units, rallying commanders to the prime minister's side.
Pro-shah soldiers sent to arrest Dr. Mossadegh at his home were instead captured. The top military officer working with General Zahedi fled when he saw tanks and loyal government soldiers at army headquarters.
The next morning, the history states, the Tehran radio announced that a coup against the government had failed, and Dr. Mossadegh scrambled to strengthen his hold on the army and key installations. C.I.A. officers inside the embassy were flying blind; the history says they had "no way of knowing what was happening."
Mr. Roosevelt left the embassy and tracked down General Zahedi, who was in hiding north of Tehran. Surprisingly, the general was not ready to abandon the operation. The coup, the two men agreed, could still work, provided they could persuade the public that General Zahedi was the lawful prime minister.
To accomplish this, the history discloses, the coup plotters had to get out the news that the shah had signed the two decrees.
The C.I.A. station in Tehran sent a message to The Associated Press in New York, asserting that "unofficial reports are current to the effect that leaders of the plot are armed with two decrees of the shah, one dismissing Mossadegh and the other appointing General Zahedi to replace him."
The C.I.A. and its agents also arranged for the decrees to be mentioned in some Tehran papers, the history says.
The propaganda initiative quickly bogged down. Many of the C.I.A.'s Iranian agents were under arrest or on the run. That afternoon, agency operatives prepared a statement from General Zahedi that they hoped to distribute publicly. But they could not find a printing press that was not being watched by forces loyal to the prime minister.
On Aug. 16, prospects of reviving the operation were dealt a seemingly a fatal blow when it was learned that the shah had bolted to Baghdad. C.I.A. headquarters cabled Tehran urging Mr. Roosevelt, the station chief, to leave immediately.
He did not agree, insisting that there was still "a slight remaining chance of success," if the shah would broadcast an address on the Baghdad radio and General Zahedi took an aggressive stand.
The first sign that the tide might turn came with reports that Iranian soldiers had broken up Tudeh, or Communist, groups, beating them and making them chant their support for the shah. "The station continued to feel that the project was not quite dead," the secret history recounts.
Meanwhile, Dr. Mossadegh had overreached, playing into the C.I.A.'s hands by dissolving Parliament after the coup.
On the morning of Aug. 17 the shah finally announced from Baghdad that he had signed the decrees -- though he had by now delayed so long that plotters feared it was too late.
At this critical point Dr. Mossadegh let down his guard. Lulled by the shah's departure and the arrests of some officers involved in the coup, the government recalled most troops it had stationed around the city, believing that the danger had passed.
That night the C.I.A. arranged for General Zahedi and other key Iranian agents and army officers to be smuggled into the embassy compound "in the bottom of cars and in closed jeeps" for a "council of war."
They agreed to start a counterattack on Aug. 19, sending a leading cleric from Tehran to the holy city of Qum to try to orchestrate a call for a holy war against Communism. (The religious forces they were trying to manipulate would years later call the United States "the Great Satan.")
Using travel papers forged by the C.I.A., key army officers went to outlying army garrisons to persuade commanders to join the coup.
Once again, the shah disappointed the C.I.A. He left Baghdad for Rome the next day, apparently an exile. Newspapers supporting Dr. Mossadegh reported that the Pahlevi dynasty had come to an end, and a statement from the Communist Party's central committee attributed the coup attempt to "Anglo-American intrigue." Demonstrators ripped down imperial statues -- as they would again 26 years later during the Islamic revolution.
The C.I.A. station cabled headquarters for advice on whether to "continue with TP-Ajax or withdraw."
"Headquarters spent a day featured by depression and despair," the history states, adding, "The message sent to Tehran on the night of Aug. 18 said that 'the operation has been tried and failed,' and that 'in the absence of strong recommendations to the contrary operations against Mossadegh should be discontinued.' "
 
The Success
C.I.A. and Moscow Are Both Surprised
But just as the Americans were ready to quit, the mood on the streets of Tehran shifted.
On the morning of Aug. 19, several Tehran papers published the shah's long-awaited decrees, and soon pro-shah crowds were building in the streets.
"They needed only leadership," the secret history says. And Iranian agents of the C.I.A. provided it. Without specific orders, a journalist who was one of the agency's most important Iranian agents led a crowd toward Parliament, inciting people to set fire to the offices of a newspaper owned by Dr. Mossadegh's foreign minister. Another Iranian C.I.A. agent led a crowd to sack the offices of pro-Tudeh papers.
"The news that something quite startling was happening spread at great speed throughout the city," the history states.
The C.I.A. tried to exploit the situation, sending urgent messages that the Rashidian brothers and two key American agents should "swing the security forces to the side of the demonstrators."
But things were now moving far too quickly for the agency to manage. An Iranian Army colonel who had been involved in the plot several days earlier suddenly appeared outside Parliament with a tank, while members of the now-disbanded Imperial Guard seized trucks and drove through the streets. "By 10:15 there were pro-shah truckloads of military personnel at all the main squares," the secret history says.
By noon the crowds began to receive direct leadership from a few officers involved in the plot and some who had switched sides. Within an hour the central telegraph office fell, and telegrams were sent to the provinces urging a pro-shah uprising. After a brief shootout, police headquarters and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs fell as well.
The Tehran radio remained the biggest prize. With the government's fate uncertain, it was broadcasting a program on cotton prices. But by early afternoon a mass of civilians, army officers and policemen overwhelmed it. Pro-shah speakers went on the air, broadcasting the coup's success and reading the royal decrees.
At the embassy, C.I.A. officers were elated, and Mr. Roosevelt got General Zahedi out of hiding. An army officer found a tank and drove him to the radio station, where he spoke to the nation.
Dr. Mossadegh and other government officials were rounded up, while officers supporting General Zahedi placed "known supporters of TP-Ajax" in command of all units of the Tehran garrison.
The Soviet Union was caught completely off-guard. Even as the Mossadegh government was falling, the Moscow radio was broadcasting a story on "the failure of the American adventure in Iran."
But C.I.A. headquarters was as surprised as Moscow. When news of the coup's success arrived, it "seemed to be a bad joke, in view of the depression that still hung on from the day before," the history says.
Throughout the day, Washington got most of its information from news agencies, receiving only two cablegrams from the station. Mr. Roosevelt later explained that if he had told headquarters what was going on, "London and Washington would have thought they were crazy and told them to stop immediately," the history states.
Still, the C.I.A. took full credit inside the government. The following year it overthrew the government of Guatemala, and a myth developed that the agency could topple governments anywhere in the world.
Iran proved that third world king-making could be heady.
"It was a day that should never have ended," the C.I.A.'s secret history said, describing Aug. 19, 1953. "For it carried with it such a sense of excitement, of satisfaction and of jubilation that it is doubtful whether any other can come up to it."
 
'Gentleman Spy' at Helm
Donald Wilber, who planned the coup in Iran and wrote its secret history, was old-school C.I.A., a Princetonian and a Middle East architecture expert who fit neatly into the mold of the "gentleman spy."
Years of wandering through Middle Eastern architectural sites gave him the perfect cover for a clandestine life. By 1953, he was an obvious choice as the operation's strategist.
The coup was the high point of his life as a spy. Although he would excel in academia, at the agency being part-time was a handicap.
"I never requested promotion, and was given only one, after the conclusion of Ajax," Dr. Wilber wrote of the Iran operation.
On his last day, "I was ushered down to the lobby by a young secretary, turned over my badge to her and left." He added, "This treatment rankled for some time. I did deserve the paperweight."
He died in 1997 at 89.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: As the C.I.A.-backed royalist coup seemed to be failing in Iran, the shah and Empress Soraya arrived in Rome on Aug. 18, 1953. (Corbis Bettmann)(pg. 1); Royalists, carrying a picture of the shah, rode a commandeered bus in Tehran on Aug. 19, 1953, when the coup became a success. (A. Rashki/Associated Press)(pg. 14); (Photograph from "Adventures in the Middle East" by Donald N. Wilber, Darwin)(pg. 15)
 
Chart/Photos: "Decades of Turmoil in Iran"
1941 -- Britain and the Soviet Union invade western Iran to counter the threat of expanding Nazi influence.
 
1951 -- Mohammed Mossadegh, an ultranationalist, is elected prime minister, under the shah. He angers the British by trying to nationalize the oil industry.
 
1953 -- American and British intelligence services overthrow Mossadegh. The coup consolidates power under the shah, ensuring cooperation on oil and discouraging Communist expansion.
 
1963-64 -- Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, a religious leader, is exiled to Turkey after his arrest for speaking out against the shah's relationship with the United States.
 
1978 -- Turmoil sweeps Iran. Khomeini establishes an opposition movement in Paris.
 
1979 -- The Iranian revolution forces the shah to leave. A month later, he is allowed into the United States for cancer treatment in New York City.
 
1979 -- Khomeini returns to proclaim an Islamic republic.
 
With his support, Iranian students occupy the American Embassy in Tehran. Fifty-two Americans are held hostage for 444 days. The United States freezes Iranian assets.
 
Broken Ties With the United States
 
1980 -- The United States breaks ties with Iran, bans American exports to the country and expels Iranian diplomats.
 
A secret American military mission to rescue the hostages is aborted because of bad weather. Eight servicemen die in a helicopter crash.
 
The shah dies in Egypt at age 60.
 
1981 -- The hostages are released minutes after President Carter's term ends. A United States-Iran claims tribunal is set up in The Hague.
 
1986 -- Revelations emerge of an American deal to exchange arms for Iranian help in freeing hostages held in Lebanon.
 
1988 -- The American cruiser Vincennes mistakenly shoots down an Iranian airliner over the Persian Gulf, killing all 290 aboard.
 
1989 -- Ayatollah Khomeini dies and is replaced as the nation's spiritual leader by Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. The speaker of Iran's Parliament, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, is elected president.
 
1993 -- The Clinton admin 2/3istration starts a campaign to isolate Iran, accusing it of supporting terrorism, seeking nuclear arms and trying to derail Middle East peace.
 
1995 -- The United States cuts off all trade and investment with Iran.
 
1996 -- President Clinton signs a law that imposes sanctions on foreign companies investing heavily in "terrorist" Iran or Libya.
 
1997 -- Mohammad Khatami, a moderate cleric, wins Iran's presidential election. Clinton calls the election hopeful, but insists that ties are not possible until Iran renounces terrorism, opposition to the Middle East peace effort and weapons of mass destruction.
 
Shifting Toward Reconciliation
 
1998 -- Khatami proposes cultural exchanges as a way to end mistrust, but rules out a government-to-government dialogue.
 
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright invites Iranians to join with the United States in drawing up "a road map leading to normal relations. Iran responds that such a step must be followed up by acts.
 
1999 -- The Clinton administration announces it will let American companies sell food and medical items to three countries off-limits as terrorist -- Iran, Libya and Sudan.
 
1999 -- Clinton asks Khatami for help in solving the 1996 bombing of a Saudi building in which 19 American servicemen died and hundreds were wounded.
 
The Clinton administration renews an offer for talks "on the basis of equality and mutual respect." Iran rejects the offer two days later.
 
The United States agrees to let Boeing provide Iran's national airline with parts to ensure the safety of its 747's.
 
2000 -- Albright announces the lifting of a ban on American imports of Iranian luxury goods. She acknowledges America's role in the 1953 coup, coming closer to apologizing for it than any Ameri 2/3can official ever has.
(pgs. 14-15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology; Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAN (90%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); TURKEY (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAN (90%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); TURKEY (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAN; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT COUPS (92%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); ARMED FORCES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); RELIGION (54%); 

PERSON: RISEN, JAMES; MOSSADEGH, MOHAMMED; WILBER, DONALD N (DR); PAHLEVI, MOHAMMED RIZA (SHAH) (1919-80) BILL CLINTON (79%); JIMMY CARTER (73%); ALI KHAMENEI (73%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



437 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1819 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. MORE LIKELY TO AUDIT THE POOR AND NOT THE RICH

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Last year, for the first time, the poor were more likely than the rich to have their tax returns audited, new Internal Revenue Service data compiled by Syracuse University researchers shows.
The I.R.S. audited 1.36 percent of all tax returns filed by people making less than $25,000 last year, compared with 1.15 percent of returns filed by those making $100,000 or more. Since 1988, audit rates for the poor have increased by a third, from 1.03 percent, while falling 90 percent for the wealthiest Americans, from 11.4 percent. 
 The need to audit the highest income taxpayers is somewhat less today than in 1988, I.R.S. officials say, because more of these individuals are wage earners whose pay is fully reported by employers and because Congress has eliminated some of the deductions most likely to be abused.
But there has been no reason to reduce audits of corporations and the self-employed, which fell to record low levels last year because Congress did not authorize funds to keep up with the increased number of such taxpayers. These taxpayers received less scrutiny even though the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, said in 1997 that they are more likely than the working poor to pay less in taxes than they owe.
The focus of I.R.S. audits on the bottom of the income ladder extended to businesses as well.
In 1999, unincorporated businesses with less than $25,000 in sales, classified by the I.R.S. as Schedule C enterprises, were more likely to be audited than larger unincorporated businesses. The I.R.S. audited 2.7 percent of the tiny ventures, more than double the 1.3 percent rate for those with $25,000 to $100,000 in sales and more than the 2.4 percent rate for those with more than $100,000 in sales.
The intensified focus on low-income taxpayers resulted from pressure on the I.R.S. beginning in 1995. Newt Gingrich, who was then House speaker, and other Republican Congressional leaders were concerned about misuse of the earned income tax credit, a program that allows the working poor, especially those with children, to receive money from the government through a form of negative income tax. They proposed to sharply reduce the credit, prompting President Clinton to counter with a plan to bolster audits to reduce fraud and mistakes.
The I.R.S. was also far less likely to take action last year against those who did not pay their income taxes, the new data shows. Levies on paychecks and bank accounts were down 85 percent from 1997, and liens to secure the government's interest were down 69 percent.
Seizures of property to pay back taxes, the most severe enforcement action, were down 98 percent, to 161, from about 10,000 annually the previous 10 years. Auditors recommended $4.5 billion in taxes and penalties last year, down from $6.3 billion in 1993.
Much of the decline in enforcement is because of shrinking staff and complex new rules enacted by Congress in the I.R.S. Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998. Seizing property, for example, now requires a 54-step process that more than two dozen revenue officers have described as virtually impossible to navigate. And the permanent I.R.S. staff is the same size now as in 1983, even though the total number of tax returns has increased one-third and the number of complex returns by high-income individuals has grown even more.
Over all, one of every 66 corporations of all sizes was audited, a level of scrutiny significantly lower than the one in 37 audit rate for Schedule C businesses with less than $25,000 of revenue. Among the largest corporations, those with more than $250 million of assets, the audit rate was 34.5 percent last year, down from 54.6 percent in 1992.
These findings emerge from an exhaustive compilation of tax data posted on the Internet by the Syracuse researchers. The data, covering I.R.S. audit and enforcement actions through last Sept. 30, the end of the government's 1999 fiscal year, was provided to the university's Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse by the I.R.S.
Charles O. Rossotti, the commissioner of internal revenue, said that overall audit rates had fallen so far that he feared the tax system could not bear any more cuts.
Last week, asking a House subcommittee to support a 9 percent increase in his budget, Mr. Rossotti said that "we're really risking the entire tax system" by continually slashing audit rates.
In an interview, Mr. Rossotti said: "I am not going to make the claim that at this moment the system is threatened because I don't know at what point it is threatened by falling audit rates. But longer term, the threat is there if a belief begins to develop that, 'Hey, I am paying my taxes but the guy next door or the business across the street isn't, and the I.R.S. is not, or cannot, do anything about it.' "
Mr. Rossotti said that the only reason audit rates for the working poor had risen while the rates for wealthier taxpayers had declined was a mandate from the White House and Congress for close monitoring of the earned income credit.
A couple without children can use the credit to eliminate all income tax liability and get back an additional $347, but working parents can wipe out their liability and collect as much as $3,816 more. Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, said studies had showed that more than 20 percent of returns claiming the credit had misused it.
But John Karl Scholz, a University of Wisconsin economist who studied the earned income credit in 1995 when he was a Clinton administration tax policy adviser, said that while fraud was a continuing problem, most of the issues uncovered in audits tended to be disputes over who got the credit when a couple with children had separated or divorced. Mr. Rossotti expressed the same view in an interview.
Mr. Scholz said that "if you consider the amount of noncompliant behavior uncovered for a dollar of I.R.S. enforcement resources, the amount of attention being given to the earned income tax credit is much too large."
Excluding the special audits of the working poor and people who fail to file a tax return, the audit rate for those making less than $25,000 would fall from 1 in 74 to 1 in 300. For businesses with sales under $25,000 the rate would fall from one in 37 to one in 588.
Mr. Rossotti said, "The issue of whether you are more likely to be audited if you make less than $25,000 than if you make more than $100,000 is totally distorted by the presence of the special earned income tax credit program."
Senator William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who heads the Senate Finance Committee and who was the sponsor of the restructuring act, said he was troubled by many of these statistics. "The tax laws must be applied with integrity and fairness," he said, adding that "I am hopeful that with adequate resources, better training, the leadership of Charles Rossotti and continuous modernization of the agency, the I.R.S. will improve."
Mr. Archer, the chief tax writer in the House, said he had found no flaw in the I.R.S. audit priorities and criticized the Syracuse researchers.
"This entire analysis is terribly misleading and cynical," Mr. Archer said in a statement. "Ninety-seven percent of all the so-called 'audits' relating to the earned income credit are correspondence audits, which is a relatively simple matter of mailing additional information to the I.R.S."
For now, though, the I.R.S. is scrutinizing the earned income credit with such wariness that it is sometimes denying the credit to people who are legitimately owed it on nothing more than suspicion, according to several low-income taxpayer clinics run by law schools.
Last week in Los Angeles, a tax court judge heard the case of Maritza Reyes, a cleaning woman who earns $7,000 annually and who was denied the credit after an audit. She had separated from her husband, and each had taken one child and applied for the earned income tax credit. The I.R.S. rejected Ms. Reyes's application for the credit but at trial produced no evidence to support its position that she and her husband had not actually separated. A ruling is expected in three months.
Professor Frank J. Doti of the Chapman University law school in Orange, Calif., who with Pallavi Shah, a law student, represented Ms. Reyes, said that many low-income people audited by the I.R.S. wound up in worse straits than did Ms. Reyes. Few have access to low-income legal clinics, and they give up when they are wrongly denied the credit. Then their cases are added to the statistics on fraud and errors on which Congress relied when it financed the increased audits of the working poor.
"There is fraud in this program, but the handling of this case is bizarre," Professor Doti said, adding that the situation was not unique. The I.R.S. declined to comment on the Reyes case, as it does in all cases involving individual taxpayers. "Our policy is to rely on the facts and the law in determining eligibility," said Frank Keith, an I.R.S. spokesman.
To identify tax cheating by high-income taxpayers and those with complex returns the I.R.S. relies on face-to-face audits by highly trained revenue agents. The number of such audits fell sharply again last year.
In 1981, the earliest year for which data is available, one in 63 tax returns received such an audit, but last year only one in 322 did, down from one in 217 in 1998. This decline partly reflects the shrunken I.R.S. audit staff, which has less time to examine complex returns.
But a second factor, perhaps more significant, is also at work, said David B. Burnham, who with Professor Susan Long is co-director of the Syracuse research organization. The I.R.S. relies on data at least 11 years old to select returns for audits based on patterns of income and deductions, Mr. Burnham said.
Changes in the economy, including companies offering more stock options in lieu of cash compensation and taxpayers deducting interest on home equity loans and margin debt, make much of this data useless for identifying cheating.
But since 1995 Congress has barred new studies to measure taxpayer compliance by the I.R.S.
The Syracuse University Web site, trac.syr.edu, also lists data from the Administrative Office of the United States Courts that shows that criminal prosecutions for tax crimes, long a minor government activity, continue to decline. Last year, there were just 722 such prosecutions in the nation, half the figure in 1981, when there were one-third fewer taxpayers.
The I.R.S. data also showed an area of increased activity that may foreshadow the government's ability to collect taxes in the years ahead. The number of cases opened on people who have stopped filing returns has soared. In 1997, the I.R.S. initiated 822,898 taxpayer delinquency investigations. Last year, that number nearly doubled to 1.58 million.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graph: "Less Scrutiny for High Incomes . . ."
Low-income individual tax returns were audited by the IRS last year* at a higher rate than returns with high incomes.
 
Low-income unincorporated businesses were also audited at a higher rate than returns with high incomes.
 
. . . and for Corporations
Audits of corporations have also declined sharply since 1992.
 
CORPORATE ASSETS
 
Less than $250,000
AUDIT RATES 1992: 1.18%
AUDIT RATES 1999: 0.44%
PERCENT CHANGE: -62.7%
 
$250,000 to $1 million
AUDIT RATES 1992: 4.00
AUDIT RATES 1999: 1.65
PERCENT CHANGE: -58.8
 
$1 million to $5 million
AUDIT RATES 1992: 9.93
AUDIT RATES 1999: 4.86
PERCENT CHANGE: -51.0
 
$5 million to $10 million
AUDIT RATES 1992: 18.78
AUDIT RATES 1999: 10.09
PERCENT CHANGE: -46.3
 
$10 million to $50 million
AUDIT RATES 1992: 23.20
AUDIT RATES 1999: 14.75
PERCENT CHANGE: -36.4
 
$50 million to $100 million
AUDIT RATES 1992: 28.48
AUDIT RATES 1999: 16.05
PERCENT CHANGE: -43.6
 
$100 million to $250 million
AUDIT RATES 1992: 31.31
AUDIT RATES 1999: 18.51
PERCENT CHANGE: -40.9
 
$250 million or more
AUDIT RATES 1992: 54.63
AUDIT RATES 1999: 34.55
PERCENT CHANGE: -36.8
 
(Source: Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY; INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE; GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (91%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (91%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (82%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY; INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE; GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (91%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (91%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (82%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; RESEARCH; TAX EVASION; TAX DEDUCTIONS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX AUDITS (90%); AUDITS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (85%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY BILL CLINTON (52%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



438 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Fulton Journal;
New Regulations Weighed as Shrimp Stocks Fall

BYLINE: By ROSS E. MILLOY 

DATELINE: FULTON, Tex., April 15

 BODY:
Along the harbor docks of this windswept village of 1,000 on the Texas coast, where several dozen shrimp boats rock on their moorings in a steady southeasterly breeze, shrimpers are facing two unwelcome changes -- declining shrimp stocks and the likelihood of tougher government regulations.
But faced with the shortage of shrimp in the Gulf of Mexico, the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department is considering stringent new measures for an industry already reeling from decades of government intervention. 
 "I am not going to preside over the death of a fishery," said Hal Osburn, director of the department's coastal fisheries program, noting that an 18-month study shows that shrimp have dwindled to 30 percent of their historical levels and may soon reach a point that makes it impossible for the remaining shrimp to reproduce fast enough to replenish the stocks.
"When that happens the entire fishery collapses and everyone loses -- the shrimpers, the sports fishermen and the public," he said.
Among the measures being contemplated by the agency are increased regulation of net mesh sizes, reduced catch limits, and seasonal and area closures of some fishing grounds, he said.
But for many shrimpers, more regulations of the industry only mean more problems.
"Too much laws already," Haun Nguyen, a 32-year-old Vietnamese shrimper lamented. Working aboard his battered 42-foot wooden vessel, the Saint John, Mr. Nguyen said: "Somebody in Austin need a job so they make up rules. They make it too hard to make a living."
Mr. Nguyen, a father of three who works 12 hours a day seven days a week fishing alone in the waters of Aransas Bay, says that there are plenty of shrimp in the bay if only the government would allow shrimpers to harvest them. Any perceived shortages, he says, are the result of environmental pollution from pesticides off farmlands draining into the bay, or more likely, he says, an increase in trout and redfish resulting from restocking programs managed by area fishermen.
But Mr. Osburn said two major changes over the last 20 years have made increased regulatory efforts necessary: an influx of primarily Asian refugees like Mr. Nguyen seeking a livelihood from the shrimping industry, and the invention of "peeler technology" which created a market for extremely small shrimp that would otherwise be unprofitable to harvest.
Texas bay and Gulf shrimpers harvest about 70 million pounds of fish annually worth nearly $160 million, with a total $500 million impact on the state's economy, he said.
"Throughout most of a shrimp's life, there is a fleet of commercial vessels out there in active pursuit," Mr. Osburn said.
He said 1,400 bait shrimp vessels target the small shrimp in the back bays. As shrimp grow and move into the primary bays, a bay shrimping fleet of another 1,400 vessels seeks them. Finally, as the shrimp reach maturity and move out to the Gulf, they are hunted by a fleet of 2,300 licensed Gulf shrimping vessels, plus many out-of-state boats.
"The shrimping industry obviously doesn't like increased regulation, but you can't keep doing that forever," he said.
But Kenneth Jackson, 68, says he retired after 41 years of shrimping in the bays and out in the Gulf of Mexico because, "I just couldn't make a living at it."
Mr. Jackson said shrimpers face a bewildering tangle of state and federal regulations and licensing requirements.
"Some times of the year you can only fish from sunrise until 2 in afternoon, sometimes you can't fish at night, sometimes you can only catch certain sizes and only so much of that," he said. "In the Gulf, if you catch the wrong size at the wrong time of year, you have to throw them back even though they're already dead. It's a mess."
Mr. Osburn says another program, buying back licenses from fishermen while limiting new entries to the industry, offers the best hope for future regulation. Despite the possible new rules, Mr. Nguyen has no intention of quitting the shrimping industry, though he says he would never let his children enter the business. "It's too hard."
Regulations are only part of the many difficulties feeding Mr. Nguyen's frustration.
Mr. Nguyen, who says he makes about $10,000 a year shrimping, says fuel costs have soared to $100 of his average daily earnings of $150. And without warning, the owner of the docks here at Fulton Harbor notified him on April 1 that slip rentals would double from $50 to $100 a month.
And on Friday, a key pulley that hoists his nets from the water broke. As he climbed up among the nets to replace it, he pointed to the shiny new pulley he had just bought.
"Fifty bucks I pay for this," he said. "No money for me today. No milk for my kids. Tell somebody in Austin about that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The shrimp boat Star of the Sea in Corpus Christi Bay. Texas shrimpers may face increasing regulation by the state Parks and Wildlife Department. (Corpus Christi Caller-Times)
 
Map of Texas highlights Fulton: The Gulf Coast shrimp industry is under considerable pressure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; GULF OF MEXICO; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SHRIMP; SHORTAGES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY FISHERIES (92%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (89%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (77%); FISHING LAW (77%); WILDLIFE (76%); FISHES (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); DEREGULATION (71%); SPORT FISHING (70%); WATER POLLUTION (68%); PESTICIDE POLLUTION (50%); PESTICIDES (50%); 

PERSON: MILLOY, ROSS E; OSBORN, HAL HAUN NGUYEN (91%); HAL OSBURN (71%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



439 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1862 words

HEADLINE: Amid the Stock Market's Losses, A Sense the Game Has Changed

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON and PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
In a sweltering second-floor office of a midtown Manhattan branch of Quick & Reilly, a discount brokerage, Sean M. Mullin, a 23-year-old broker, tugged at his tie as he explained how he had spent much of Friday afternoon. As the market plummeted, Mr. Mullin was making "margin calls" on investors who had bought losing stocks with borrowed money. Those investors now had to put up more cash as collateral or sell their shares to pay off their loans.
Mr. Mullin said he disliked making margin calls, although he had no choice. "You get people on the phone and they're just upset," he said. "They'll call you and say, 'How much do I owe?' " 
 As for his own portfolio, "I'm holding tough," Mr. Mullin said. "It's painful."
Pain was everywhere Friday as the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell almost 10 percent, capping its worst week ever, and the Dow Jones industrial average declined more than 5 percent. There was a sense of shock among many investors on Friday, a suggestion that the game had run its course, at least for a little while. And few sounded eager to step in and buy.
In other market declines over the past decade, investors have been quick to follow experts' exhortations to buy on dips. That buying has driven United States stocks, especially technology stocks, to unprecedented levels.
The buying could resume when the market opens on Monday. But as investors reviewed the damage wrought last week, their uncertainty about the market's near-term prospects was palpable.
Friday's selling, which came at the end of a week when the Nasdaq fell 25 percent and United States stocks lost $2 trillion in value, did not reflect panic. It was worse, a steady and relentless decline that showed few signs of letting up as the 4:00 p.m. bell finally rang to end the action, closing a one-sided bout that finished several rounds too late.
Among individual investors, panicked sellers were hard to find, except for people who had to pay taxes or who faced margin calls. Figures from Birinyi Associates, a stock market research firm in Connecticut, confirmed the anecdotal evidence, showing that big institutions, not individuals, accounted for most of Friday's selling.
But no one seemed to be bargain hunting either. The aggressive buyers who drove technology stocks up to all-time highs last month seem to be out of fresh cash, and more conservative investors still think the highfliers are too expensive.
The dynamic was clear Friday afternoon at Quick & Reilly. There, clusters of investors were talking to brokers, making trades and checking the stock prices displayed on computer monitors. Above them, a muted television played CNBC, the business news cable channel, as a series of pundits talked and the Dow skidded south.
Sitting at a desk at the front of the branch, Dmitri Jones, a Quick & Reilly consultant, said he did not expect the sell-off to end soon. Despite sharp declines, technology stocks are still overvalued, and many conservative investors will not be interested in buying them until they fall much lower, he said. "A lot of people are waiting on the sidelines," Mr. Jones said.
Others are too badly bruised to step up right now, he said. "You look at people's accounts," he said. "It's straight carnage."
Mr. Jones said he had bought 200 shares of Microsoft on Tuesday. "I thought I was getting a bargain," he said ruefully. Since then, shares in the software company have plunged, costing Mr. Jones more than $2,000.
"I'm just looking at my future getting smaller and smaller," he said.
"It's very bad," Vinod Malhotra, another investor, said as he worriedly checked the ever-changing prices displayed on the computer screens near the branch's front entrance.
Mr. Malhotra said he owned shares in several of the Internet and technology highfliers that have been hardest hit in the last month, including Internet Capital Group, down from $147 on March 6 to $52.0625 at Friday's close, and Exodus Communications, which has fallen from $179.625 on March 23 to $85.5625 on Friday.
All in all, it has been a very expensive couple of weeks, Mr. Malhotra said. He has accounts at several brokerage firms and said his largest portfolio, at Prudential, had fallen from $1.8 million to under $1 million.
Still, Mr. Malhotra has no plans to sell. "I have no choice," he said. "I have to hold on until they come back."
A few investors started unloading stocks before last week. Norman Nouskajian, a San Diego lawyer, said the irrational behavior of other investors drove him to sell most of his stocks six weeks ago. "When I saw some of my clients who were in businesses having nothing to do with finance divert their time and money into the market, to me that pointed to a type of excess," he said.
Instead of keeping half of his assets in the stock market, as he usually does, Mr. Nouskajian said he cut back to 20 percent. His remaining stocks have lost half their value, erasing 10 percent of his net worth.
Now he is in no particular hurry to get back into the market. "Next week, I might nibble a little," he said. "I feel sorry for people who have taken a lot of money and thrown it at the overpriced tech stocks."
Donald F. Zele, a retired auditor who lives in Farmington, Conn., told a similar story. Mr. Zele said he had called his stepdaughter on Tuesday and told her to sell her mutual funds, and had then sold all of his own stocks and funds. "Today's debacle proved me right," he said Friday.
Now Mr. Zele wants to get back in. But not yet. "People are panicking and getting out at all costs," he said. "This thing could get a lot uglier. I can't wait to get back in, but right now I am not going to touch it."
The nervousness is hardly confined to individual investors.
Kim S. Fennebresque, chief executive officer of SG Cowen, an investment bank that specializes in underwriting stock issues for the health care and technology companies that have been hardest hit in the last month, held a conference call Friday to reassure his employees that Cowen's future remained bright. But afterward, Mr. Fennebresque confessed that he was less sanguine about the overall stock market.
Investors who buy too soon may "catch a falling knife," Mr. Fennebresque said. "One cannot help but be a little sober about the playing field in which we find ourselves."
Mr. Fennebresque said he worried about a "poverty effect" as investors who have lost money cut back on purchases. It is probably too early for that, especially since both the Dow and Nasdaq are still higher than they were even six months ago. Several real estate brokers and travel agents who cater to wealthy clients said that as of Friday, they had not lost any business.
But the plunge seems to have hurt sales of at least one luxury item. At the Wall Street Humidor, a cigar shop in lower Manhattan that caters to wealthy traders and investment bankers, the owner, Richard Hu, said business had been terrible.
"It is an absolute disaster," Mr. Hu said. "The last thing they want is a cigar. A cigar will kill them too slowly."
Meanwhile, longtime bears like Seymour Rosen, 65, a cabinet maker from Monroe Township, N.J., remain wary.
Mr. Rosen said he had been warning for more than a year that the run-up in technology stocks was "smoke and mirrors." He got really worried when a waitress at a diner in East Windsor, N.J., boasted about her purchase of shares in ViroPharma, a drugmaker that has lost more than 85 percent of its value in the last month. "I said you haven't made a nickel until you sell it," he recounted.
"Everyone wanted to jump in and make a million dollars," Mr. Rosen said. Now all he wants to do is jump out.
"If it does bounce back, I want to get out," he said, adding that he would settle now for bonds that guarantee him a return of 6 percent a year. If the market continues to decline, he said, he might sell anyway. "It's better to lose some than to lose it all."
But not everyone was displeased with Friday's action. Even some investors with big losses expressed a certain relief. "We've certainly seen a lot of paper wealth disappear," said Joseph Chung, chairman of the Art Technology Group, an Internet software company that went public in July. Art Technology shares fell 46 percent last week, and Mr. Chung's net worth fell by more than $200 million. "But I think it's healthy," he said from his San Francisco office. "I honestly do."
Mr. Chung had been worried that investors and entrepreneurs had become more focused on quick financial returns than on actual business development. "Now that the tar's been knocked out of the market a bit, people may get back to some of the reasons why we're actually here," he said.
Short-sellers, who profit when stocks decline, said the sell-off confirmed warnings that many technology companies are overvalued.
Indeed, by most measures, technology stocks have been in a bubble for years, with many priced at 100, 200, or even 300 times their annual earnings. In less heady times, most stocks sport price-earnings ratios of 30 or less, although technology bulls note that many technology companies are growing at very fast rates.
Friday's plunge was needed to wring excesses out of stock prices, said Marc Cohodes, general partner of Rocker Partners, which manages $600 million. Mr. Cohodes is among the short sellers, bearish investors who borrow what they believe are overpriced shares and then sell them, betting that their prices will decline and they will be able to buy them back later at the lower price.
"Today was a day I would like to see repeated a few more times," Mr. Cohodes said. "I think what this is, it's the start of a change that's going to happen in the markets."
Mr. Cohodes said that change would be healthy for both Wall Street and the economy as a whole, by keeping capital out of the hands of money-losing dot-com businesses.
"People who burn cash and have no business model -- that game is over," he said.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Clinton Sees 'Good Year'
(By The Associated Press), SEQUOIA NATIONAL FOREST, Calif., April 15 -- President Clinton reassured Americans today about the economy after Wall Street's sharp plunge, saying that "I still think we're going to have a very good year" with modest inflation and strong growth.
The president said the investment markets "will take care of themselves."
"I think that they'll go up and they'll go down," Mr. Clinton said. "But I think long-term trends are quite positive."
He spoke with reporters briefly after setting aside 388,000 acres of land to protect giant sequoia trees.
"Everybody that invests their money will tend to look at what it is likely to look like over the year," the president said. "All I can do is try to keep the economy strong and that's what I'll do."
He said projected inflation for the year "is still quite modest and the projected growth rate for the year is still strong."
Vice President Al Gore also responded casually today when he was asked about the downturn.
"Markets go up and markets go down," he said. "You've got to keep focused on the fundamentals, and the fundamentals of our economy are sound."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Watching the closing prices on a Nasdaq display in Times Square. (Stuart Ramson/Associated Press)(pg. 1); Brokers reported a steady stream of calls on Friday from investors like Sam Bernstein, who was at a Charles Schwab office in Houston. (Associated Press)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (78%); BONDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); CONSERVATISM (62%); CABLE TELEVISION (61%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX; MCGEEHAN, PATRICK SEAN M MULLIN (72%); VINOD MALHOTRA (70%); DMITRI JONES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



440 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Wealthy Nations Agree On Changes in I.M.F.

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
The Group of 7 wealthy nations agreed today on proposals for change at the International Monetary Fund that would discourage nations from borrowing too often from the fund and encourage them to pay back their loans quickly.
The proposals -- put forward by the United States and given the stamp of approval at a meeting today of finance ministers from France, Britain, Canada, Germany, Japan, Italy and the United States -- go part way to address the concerns of some critics of the fund, including members of Congress. 
 Lawmakers, academics and some private interest groups have urged the fund to phase out long-term lending in favor of short-term emergency loans, which was the fund's original mandate when it was founded just after World War II. Protesters have gathered in Washington this weekend to demonstrate against the fund and the World Bank, its sister institution. Some protesters have urged that the fund focus exclusively on crisis-management, not long-term advisory and lending programs.
Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers put forward a plan for streamlining the fund late last year, and has been lobbying European nations and Japan to back his proposals. Together, Europe, Japan and the United States control a majority of the votes on the fund's board, so their endorsement makes it likely that the fund will institute changes to its lending programs.
The G-7 nations agreed that the fund should explore the use of graduated interest rates on its major loan programs. Borrowing nations would be charged variable interest rates that fluctuate depending on how often they turn to the I.M.F. for help, how much they borrow, and how long it takes to pay back the loans. Those nations that borrow the least money the least often and for the shortest terms would get the lowest rates.
The fund already uses graduated interest rates on some lending programs. But many poor and middle-income nations borrow from the fund for long durations at concessional interest rates -- and return repeatedly for more help when the money runs out -- as part of what the fund refers to as structural adjustment lending. They often do so without seeing interest rates rise based on the quantity, duration or frequency of their borrowing.
"We agreed to put priority on the creation of a streamlined, incentive-based structure for I.M.F. lending," Mr. Summers said after the meeting of G-7 finance ministers tonight.
Though the move by the ministers might reduce some long-term borrowing by I.M.F. client nations, it seems unlikely to satisfy many of the critics of the fund's long-term loan programs. Some critics have called on the fund to completely eliminate such lending, arguing that it is ineffective and that the I.M.F. uses long-term loans to interfere in the domestic policies of borrowing nations.
Finance ministers, who often discuss currency values at their conclaves, also focused this time on the stock market plunge in the United States and the potential impact on the world economy. All major Wall Street market indices declined sharply on Friday, ending a week of bloodletting that seemed to confirm European finger-waving about the American stock market bubble.
Though the rout, if it continues, would almost certainly reduce economic growth abroad as well as in the United States, there is a silver lining. If the decline reduces consumer demand in this country, that might help even out growth between the United States and its major trading partners. Lopsided growth has been a preoccuption of finance ministers because it shows up in the giant United States trade deficit, which many fear has become unsustainably large.
Mr. Summers said that there was agreement at the meeting that economic fundamentals remain strong in all the G-7 countries, despite the volatility in equity markets. But he also emphasized that mismatched growth rates between the United States and its peers remain a pressing concern.
"If you compare the discussion today with the discussion of only six months ago, there was much more general agreement on the importance of policies to allow rebalancing of global growth," Mr. Summers said. He added that the adjustment should take place by raising growth in Europe in Japan rather than by lowering growth in the United States. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND LAWRENCE H STEIN (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); WORLD WAR II (54%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH LAWRENCE SUMMERS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



441 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Police Move Against Trade Demonstrators

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
In a pre-emptive show of force, the police this morning shut down the headquarters of protesters who were determined to stop the World Bank meeting, and as darkness fell tonight they arrested several hundred demonstrators they had penned in for more than an hour.
Lines of police officers in riot helmets stamped their feet rhythmically and pumped their nightsticks in front of their chests as they moved in on the protesters a few blocks from the bank headquarters. 
 "They're afraid we're going to shut down the World Bank, and we are," shouted a protester who identified herself as "Maggie Lawless," as she and others were led in plastic handcuffs to waiting buses.
By late evening, the authorities said, about 600 people had been arrested. They faced charges of parading without a permit and possibly with obstructing traffic, although the march, under continuous police escort, caused little serious disruption on the city's streets as the marchers mainly stayed on sidewalks..
The group of demonstrators had been marching through downtown streets -- progressively blocked off by the police during the day -- when they found themselves blocked, then surrounded by city police officers on a block of 20th Street, between K Street and Pennsylvania Avenue.
As the standoff continued, police reinforcements, including the riot-equipped Emergency Response Team, two armored cars and squadrons of motorcycles, poured in.
Although the marchers and their supporters on nearby sidewalks chanted for the police to let them go, Police Chief Charles H. Ramsey said later that the crowd had refused police orders to disperse. Reporters who had observed the march had not heard any such order.
The arrested demonstrators were to be photographed, fingerprinted and held overnight before arraignment, a process that Mr. Ramsey said would make it unlikely that they would be freed by early morning. Many demonstrators have said they had intended to be arrested on Sunday morning, the main day of their planned protests.
The day began with the police, contending that the ramshackle warren of warehouses known as the "Convergence Center" was a fire hazard, evicting more than 200 protesters shortly before 9 a.m and sealing it off indefinitely.
The site was the nerve center for demonstrations planned for the next two days as a repeat of the chaotic Seattle protests against the World Trade Organization in December.
"The fire marshals were concerned about the safety and well-being of the people who are staying at that location," Chief Ramsey said. "It's a safety issue."
Under an umbrella organization called Mobilization for Global Justice, adherents of a number of causes plan two days of demonstrations here against the annual spring meeting of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, beginning on Sunday. The protesters contend that the freer flow of money, goods and labor across borders and the financial institutions' development policies are destroying the environment and hurting poor people.
The unexpected shutdown of their headquarters and the arrests today threw their plans in doubt, although many of the demonstrators were expecting to act on their own in small groups. They have vowed to block finance ministers and other delegates from attending the meetings.
"The finance ministers and international bureaucrats who shape the world economy to make the rich richer and the poor poorer need to know that Seattle was not just a bump on their road to global domination," the mobilization declared on its Web site, one of the demonstrator's primary organizing tools.
But, as today's standoff demonstrated, the protesters will be facing an armada of at least 1,500 police officers from a half-dozen city and federal agencies determined to prevent any repeat of the chaos at the meeting last year in Seattle. .
Shortly after 8:30 a.m., two fire marshals, accompanied by two Metropolitan Police officers who said they were with the Nuisance Abatement Task Force, appeared at the protesters' headquarters, where the activists had been holding workshops in nonviolent tactics and making other preparations. The officials said they were checking for a possible fire hazard.
Within minutes, the area was sealed off by the officers of the Emergency Response Team. Shouting demonstrators clutching their sleeping bags and backpacks were escorted to the streets, and ranking officers briefed the news media.
Chief Gainer said the fire marshals had found "numerous" violations, including clogged stairwells, propane cooking stoves and jury-rigged electrical wiring. He denied that the shutdown was intended to thwart the protesters, saying, "No, the real purpose was that these kids don't burn themselves up in a fire."
The protesters, clustered outside the police lines, differed.
"This just indicates how the police are in league with corrupt governments, the I.M.F. and the World Bank," said Han Shan, a member of the mobilization, calling the talk of possible conflagration "spurious."
Clusters of mostly young demonstrators wandered the city's streets this morning, many of them having organized protest groups at their colleges in recent weeks.
The headquarters for the protesters was a set of old warehouses down an alley in the Columbia Heights neighborhood. In one corner of the alley on Friday, young mechanics worked on donated bicycles to be used by couriers during the demonstrations.
Early arrivals diligently painted banners, while another group practiced with giant puppets dressed in banker's suits, representing their targets. To the beat of drums and muffled giggles, the banker-puppets high-fived one another.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators in Washington who tried to stop a meeting of the World Bank protested the closing of their headquarters by the police yesterday. About 600 protesters had been arrested by late evening. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE (WASH); WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); RIOTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (84%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FINGERPRINTING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); TRENDS (73%); CITIES (67%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); 

PERSON: KIFNER, JOHN CHARLES H RAMSEY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



442 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 8; Page 4; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Cardinals Must Rely On Pitching Coach

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The scenario is ripe for a recurring nightmare. Darryl Kile escapes from Colorado after being trapped there for two grueling, punishing, agonizing years. Just when he begins to flourish in his new home, he finds himself back in Colorado and again spends a grueling, punishing, agonizing night.
Unfortunately for Kile, it was not just a nightmare. After winning his first two starts for St. Louis, he pitched against the Rockies on Thursday night and did not survive the second inning. The team with which he struggled the past two years pummeled him for 11 runs (8 earned), including 10 in the second. He gave up two consecutive home runs, hit three batters and threw two wild pitches. 
 "I think he went into that game with some apprehension," said Dave Duncan, the Cardinals' pitching coach. "Even in the first inning, it looked like he was trying too hard. I think he was affected by being back in Colorado. You can't get distracted like that. Being in that ballpark and trying to do so good, he lost his concentration."
Kile is one of Duncan's two pet projects this season. Pat Hentgen is the other. How successful the Ph.D. of Pitching is could determine how far the Cardinals go in the National League Central race.
Duncan's goal is to return Kile and Hentgen to their better days, when Hentgen won the American League Cy Young award (1996) with Toronto and Kile won 19 games (1997) with Houston. With the lusty hitting the Cardinals have unleashed on the league, they could win the division title if their pitchers do their part.
Until the Rocky Mountain nightmare, the Duncan developments seemed promising. Although Kile and Hentgen did not pitch shutouts, each won his first two starts.
"Kile had been throwing the ball real good, and I think he'll continue to throw the ball real good," Duncan said.
Hentgen, he said, has improved steadily. "He still hasn't picked up that velocity that I think he has a chance of regaining," the coach said, "but he's been getting himself into a better position to throw the ball, a more powerful position. In two or three more starts I think he'll be really good."
Duncan said Hentgen had steadily altered his delivery to the point that it affected the speed of his pitches. A study of videotapes from better years showed that Hentgen, a right-hander, was leaning toward first base and not moving directly toward home plate when he prepared to throw his pitches.
"We're trying to bring that delivery back into balance," Duncan said. "If we can do that, I think what we'll see is Pat pick up some velocity. There's no reason he should have dropped off in velocity. He's as physically strong as he's ever been. But his delivery was not enabling him to take advantage of his strength, putting him in a position where he can have his maximum arm speed. If we can get him back into balance, then everything else is going to fall into place."
Kile had a different problem, Duncan said. It is the free-agent syndrome. A player moves to a new team with a lucrative contract and thinks he has to justify the contract by doing more than he had done to warrant the money. Instead, he winds up performing poorly.
"Darryl may have varied off the path of success simply because he tried to do more than he had done before when he pitched good," Duncan said. "He tried to add to his game and it probably took him away from the things that he had done consistently before."
Kile has two poor seasons to overcome, two seasons in which he compiled a 10-12 record with a 6.76 earned run average at Coors Field. A trade to the Cardinals freed him from that nightmarish park, but the schedule and the Cardinals' pitching order brought him right back to it.
 
Home Run Ho-Hum
The National League's Home Run Central has not taken off the way it was expected to. Mark McGwire has a bad back, and Sammy Sosa and Ken Griffey Jr. have started slowly, although Griffey hit his first three home runs in three consecutive games last week.
The big hitter in the Central Division has been Jim Edmonds. Rumors in the winter and spring had him heading from Anaheim to the Yankees or Seattle or any number of other places, but he wound up in St. Louis. In the team's first 11 games he amassed 16 hits in 35 at-bats, slugged 5 home runs, walked 13 times and compiled a 1.000 slugging percentage (same number of total bases as at-bats) and .612 on-base percentage to go with his .457 batting average.
 
Thomas Starts Fast
Frank Thomas was probably the most maligned player of the spring, receiving critical comments from former teammates and undergoing unusually close scrutiny in news media reports. It did not help that his performance the past two years did not live up to his production in his first seven full seasons.
Determined to get back to those All-Star seasons and silence his critics, Thomas is off to a dazzling start for the Chicago White Sox. In the team's first 11 games (through Friday night), he had 22 hits in 46 at-bats for a .478 average, 3 home runs and 10 runs batted in.
 
Slow Starts
Last season, Mike Hampton, pitching for Houston, lost only four games and Rey Ordonez, the Mets' shortstop, committed only four errors. In the same game last week, Hampton, now a Mets pitcher, lost his third game of this season and Ordonez made his third error.
Mike Morgan holds the unenviable record of having lost games for more teams (11) than any other pitcher in major league history. But Morgan, a 40-year-old right-hander pitching for his 12th team, has found a new career. Filling in for Matt Mantei, the Diamondbacks' injured closer, Morgan relieved three times and earned three saves in a span of six Arizona victories. In the first 18 years of his career, Morgan gained three saves in his 71 relief appearances. He has not added the Diamondbacks to the lengthy list of teams with which he has lost games.
 
Double Duty
Mike Piazza needed extra innings, but he kept this season's most intriguing streak alive Friday night by hitting his second home run of the Mets' game in Pittsburgh in the 12th inning. Each day since the season really began (that is, excluding the two games in Japan), at least one player entering yesterday's schedule had hit two home runs in a game.
Piazza was the 31st player to perform the double (Kevin Elster is the only one of the group who hit three in a game). In the corresponding period last season, 16 players had done it.
Piazza was the 17th in the National League, which had 11 a year ago. The huge leap has been in the American League, 14 as against 5 a year ago.
 
Ball of Fire
With home runs flying out of parks more frequently than ever, Commissioner Bud Selig has directed that the baseballs be tested again. They have been tested the past couple of seasons, officials have said, and found to be no different from their predecessors.
Selig does not expect the results of the new tests to show anything new but wants to be in position to answer the charges that the ball is more potent. He is not necessarily looking to defuse the bombs that are falling on the poor pitchers. Fans like home runs and high-scoring games.
"There's nothing wrong with pleasing your customers," Selig said.
That's what the Houston Astros and the San Francisco Giants seemed to have in mind when they built their new parks. Fans like home runs? O.K., keep the fences close. The distance down one foul line in each park is shorter than the minimum 325 feet the rules call for. But both clubs say they had other reasons for the abbreviated distance.
The right-field line at the Giants' Pacific Bell Park is 309 feet. "It wasn't a matter of wanting to do it that way," said Bob Rose, the team's vice president for communications. "It was a matter of what's behind it, which is water. Literally they couldn't go any farther."
The Astros said their 315-foot distance down the left-field line at Enron Field stemmed from an economic decision. They said a greater distance would have required the span across the retractable roof to be longer and therefore cost significantly more.
Both teams had approval of the commissioner's office for the shorter lines. The Astros nevertheless defended their left-field line by saying the rule book provides only a guideline on distances. The wording, however, is stronger than a guideline. Rule 1.04 states that any park built after June 1, 1958, "shall provide a minimum distance of 325 feet from home base to the nearest fence, stand or other obstruction on the right and left field foul lines."
 
Coming Events
John Rocker is eligible to return from his two-week suspension Tuesday night when the Atlanta Braves play at home against Philadelphia. The Braves hope he will concentrate on his pitching.
The owners will meet in Houston tomorrow and Tuesday but will not vote on realignment. That step is expected to come at their June meeting. However, John Harrington of Boston and David Montgomery of Philadelphia will make a presentation on realignment. Barring an unforeseen development, Arizona will move to the American League West, Tampa Bay to the National League Southeast and Texas to what will become a six-team A.L. Central. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ST LOUIS CARDINALS ST LOUIS CARDINALS (94%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS CARDINALS ST LOUIS CARDINALS (94%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); COLORADO, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; DUNCAN, DAVE DARRYL KILE (94%); DAVE DUNCAN (93%); PAT HENTGEN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



443 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Global Storm: Loan Agencies Under Siege

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15

 BODY:
As the police built barricades and wrapped razor wire over the gleaming glass front of the World Bank headquarters here, James D. Wolfensohn, the bank's Australian-born president, gathered his staff members this week and told them to "remember to stand tall, because we are way ahead of the protesters."
It was a telling moment of defiance in the battle over who is to blame for the widening economic inequities that thousands of people are arriving in Washington to rail against, and that led the police to shut down the demonstration's headquarters today and arrest about 600 people. 
 "What I find demoralizing is that there is no organization on earth that is doing more for the poor than we do," Mr. Wolfensohn said in a hurt tone this week. "Globalization is not something the World Bank can turn back. It's not something the International Monetary Fund can stop. We can only help people and countries adjust to it, to try to close the gaps."
Mr. Wolfensohn paused and then, referring to the head of the World Trade Organization, the initial target of the protesters' ire in Seattle late last year, he added, "You know, Mike Moore said today that blaming us for civil strife and poverty is like blaming the Red Cross for war."
Perhaps so, but second-guessing generals and doctors is hardly new, even in economic wars. The television videotape on Sunday is likely to focus on the noisiest and most vociferous of the street protesters, who call for closing the bank and the fund, regardless of the impact that may have on lending money to countries that the markets shun or intervening in the next global economic crisis. But they are hardly the only critics taking aim at the half-century-old institutions.
Barely a week goes by in Washington these days without an environmental group criticizing the World Bank's 650-mile-long oil pipeline project in Chad and Cameroon, or a development project on the fringes of Tibet that has been caught up in the politically sensitive question of whether the bank is helping China dilute the proportion of Tibetan people in the area.
Commissions galore are re-examining whether the bank still lends too much to middle-income nations and not enough to the world's poorest. The I.M.F. is still embroiled in battles over whether it did more harm than good when it placed strict budget-balancing and interest rate requirements on nations hit by the Asian contagion. And then there is the World Trade Organization, which is not meeting in Washington but is a target nonetheless.
In Europe and Asia, the W.T.O. is seen as a tool of Washington, forcing countries to ingest hormone-treated beef or allow in American manufacturers. In Washington, it is seen by many on Capitol Hill as a rogue bureaucracy intent on setting labor, environmental and trade rules that override national laws.
"I think one of the common complaints is that many of these organizations don't listen as well as they say they do," said Andrea Durbin, director of international programs for Friends of the Earth, who frequently deals with the institutions. "The Indonesians have a new saying for dealing with the World Bank: they invite us, they inform us, and then they ignore what we have to say."
But it is also clear that the criticism is having some effect. The I.M.F. now publishes far more data about the economic condition of its member countries than ever before. And Mr. Wolfensohn comes to today's meetings brandishing charts showing that big power projects, once 25 percent of the World Bank's lending, now account for just 2 percent and that spending on nutrition, education and "microloans" to small businesses, many run by women in the third world, has skyrocketed.
He talks about new partnerships with the World Wildlife Fund in Brazil. For the first time, the top issue for the Development Committee, the bank's main policy-setting body, is a review of programs to fight AIDS, taking the bank into areas previously handled by the United Nations and the World Health Organization.
But it is also clear that many of these changes do not strike at the core of the bank's operations and that the pressure for far bigger reform is growing. Twice in the last few months Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers has given speeches calling for "a new division of labor between the I.M.F. and the World Bank."
While Mr. Summers hedged his comments to avoid fueling more extreme critics, he is clearly worried that the bank lent far too little money for humanitarian purposes during the Asian crisis, and should get out of some lending that could be handled by the private sector.
A careful reading of Mr. Summers's speeches suggests that he harbors considerable skepticism that the bank's talk of reforms is matched by reality. But in an interview on Thursday, he insisted that "the people who work at the international institutions are as concerned with reducing hunger, disease and poverty around the world as anyone in the streets." And he added: "There may be differences about what kind of economic approaches work best. But it's wrong to suggest that anyone has a monopoly on moral virtue here. What we should be doing is finding the strategies that work in raising living standards for desperately poor people."
In fact, to wander the halls of the bank and the fund this week was to run into people who sounded a bit shellshocked. The bank in particular is heavily staffed with people who, in the words of one of Mr. Wolfensohn's top aides, "10 years ago would have been more likley to be on the outside of the barricades, and then decided they could get more done inside." And naturally there are bureaucratic rivalries between the institutions.
While many of the proposals to reform the bank and the fund appear to be at cross purposes, there is rough agreement that both have strayed from their main missions.
"Everyone wants the bank and the I.M.F. to return to their core competencies," said Nancy Birdsall, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, who participated in a study with the Overseas Development Council. "The question is how to do it."
The I.M.F. should lend to poor countries, she said, but "not for too long, because they get sucked into other issues, from reforming education to bank supervision to designing the medical care system."
"Let's put poverty reduction in the World Bank, and managing crises back in the I.M.F.," she concluded.
But another major study, commissioned by Congress and headed by Alan Meltzer, a Carnegie Mellon professor who until recently called for the elimination of the fund, concluded that the I.M.F. should lend money to countries in distress for no more than 120 days, with perhaps one renewal. Fund officials say that is ridiculous; they would have been pulling money out of Thailand, Indonesia and South Korea before their recoveries had gathered any steam.
"Some of these ideas don't make any sense," said Stanley Fischer, the fund's No. 2 official. "It's fine to say that countries shouldn't rely on the I.M.F., just the way it would be nice if people didn't need to rely on psychiatrists. But sometimes you need some outside help, and it's usually when all the private money is pulling out."
Because the fund's track record has been mixed at best -- not surprising, since countries come to the fund only when they are in dire financial straits -- it has been a ripe target. Moreover, there is little question that some of its policies in recent years made bad situations worse.
Moreover, the fund is at a vulnerable moment. Its longtime chief, Michel Camdessus, just retired, and a bruising battle over the selection of his successor divided its board.
As the new chief, Horst Kohler of Germany, arrived in Washington this week, he was greeted with a vituperative blast by Joseph E. Stiglitz, the former head of President Clinton's council of economic advisers and then chief economist at the World Bank. The protesters on the street, Mr. Stiglitz wrote in the magazine New Republic, will "say the I.M.F.'s economic 'remedies' often make things worse -- turning slowdowns into recessions and recessions into depressions."
"And they'll have a point," he said.
The fund, he added, "undermines the democratic process by imposing policies" in return for its emergency cash. But his main complaint appeared to be that it was not willing to adopt his approach to handling the Asian crisis when he was at the bank.
The I.M.F. and economists have shot back. "When countries arrive at the I.M.F., on a stretcher, this is not the time for cute ideas," Rudiger Dornbusch, an M.I.T. professor and a critic of the fund, wrote in response. "Drastic politics are necessary to avoid hemorrhage, currency collapse and irreparable meltdown."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Washington police arrested 600 people demonstrating yesterday against the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Page 6. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Chart: "THEN AND NOW: Shifts in World Bank Lending"
Lending by the World Bank increased to $29 billion in 1999 from $11.5 billion in 1980. Here is how that lending breaks down.
 
TYPE OF LENDING
 
Education, health, nutrition and social programs
CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS (1990-1999): +20
 
Finance
CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS (1990-1999): +17
 
Economic policy and reform
CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS (1990-1999): +11
 
Administrative and regulatory reform
CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS (1990-1999): +4
 
Transportation and telecommunication
CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS (1990-1999): -3
 
Water and urban development
CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS (1990-1999): -4
 
Industry, oil & gas and mining
CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS (1990-1999): -6
 
Electric power and energy
CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS (1990-1999): -19
 
Agriculture and the environment
CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS (1990-1999): -20
 
(Source: World Bank)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TIBET (92%); CAMEROON (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (72%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (72%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND F IS (62%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); TIBET (92%); CAMEROON (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (72%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (72%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RIOTS (73%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); TRENDS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); BEEF (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; WOLFENSOHN, JAMES D JAMES D WOLFENSOHN (66%); LAWRENCE H SUMMERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



444 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-18
 
C.I.A. Document Reveals Role in '53 Iran Coup
A copy of a classified document from the Central Intelligence Agency reveals America's role in the military coup that ousted Iran's elected prime minister and returned the shah to power. 1 

World Bank Protesters Held
Washington police, in a pre-emptive strike against thousands of protesters determined to shut down the World Bank meeting, closed the demonstration's headquarters and arrested more than 600 people. 6
 
Relief Stalled in Venezuela
Government flood relief in Venezuela has slowed for reasons ranging from political squabbling to lack of organization. Now official reconstruction efforts appear to have been slowed by a dispute between the state and federal governments. 4
 
Diplomatic Embargo Failing
The Western diplomatic quarantine of Yugoslavia has broken down, with every major European country once again represented in Belgrade by senior diplomats. 10
 
U.S. Criticizes Kazakhstan
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright renewed American criticism of Kazakhstan over its sale of MIG fighter jets to North Korea. 10
 
Crisis Intensifies in Zimbabwe
Squatters in Zimbabwe occupying white-owned land shot to death a farmer and abducted four others, farm leaders said, intensifying a crisis over government plans to redistribute land. (AP)
 
NATIONAL 20-33
 
I.R.S. Is More Likely To Audit Poor, Not Rich
Last year, for the first time, the poor were more likely than the rich to have their tax returns audited, according to a study of Internal Revenue Service data. 1
 
Moderates in the South
Moderate Republican politicians in the South are at odds with a party that in many states has found itself dominated by religious conservatives. 20
 
Balancing Effort for Bush
Gov. George W. Bush is attempting a delicate balance: courting the middle while retaining his strong support among conservatives. 22
 
Gore and Soft Money
Vice President Al Gore is raising unrestricted soft money, even as he isproclaiming the need for a campaign finance overhaul. 24
 
Boy Scout Case
A Supreme Court case involving a Boy Scout leader expelled because he was gay has galvanized the religious right, on the Boy Scouts' side, and organizations like the American Bar Association on the former scoutmaster's side. 26
 
Record Gift to College
Wellesley College has received $25 million, in the largest donation ever to a women's college. 26
 
Clinton Signs Sequoia Directive
President Clinton signed a directive to increase federal protection of the ancient trees in California's Sierra Nevada. 25
 
NEW YORK/REGION 35-42
 
Some Contributors to Giuliani Primarily Oppose Mrs. Clinton
Many of the out-of-town donors to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's mayoral campaign know very little about him -- but they know his opponent, and want to prevent her from being elected. 1
 
Woman Raped on West Side
A woman was attacked by an assailant whose methods resemble those of a serial rapist who has struck seven times on the East Side of Manhattan. 37
 
Another Livery Driver Slain
Hours after a livery-cab driver was shot dead in Brooklyn Mayor Giuliani announced that several hundred police officers would be deployed to protect independent taxi drivers. 35
 
OBITUARIES 43-44
 
Edward Gorey
The artist known for his black and white drawings of hapless children and Victorian ministers was 75. 44
 
Chess 44
 
Weather 45
 
Cong. Vote 42 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SERBIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES COUPS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); SHOOTINGS (66%); TAX AUDITS (65%); RELIGION (63%); MAJOR GIFTS (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); AL GORE (57%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



445 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 3; Classified

LENGTH: 21 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Memorials
WESTCARR, MILDRED

 BODY:
WESTCARR-Mildred. April 12, 1981, Palm Sunday. In God always loving; in God forever loved. Daughters Shirley and Lorraine 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 20 about the proliferation of sexual enhancement drugs in the wake of Viagra, and the resulting competition among firms and inventors, misstated a doctor's involvement in the patent process for prostaglandin E-1, a cream for women. The doctor, Michael Wysor, did not challenge a patent application from a drug company, Vivus. He applied for a patent after Vivus did, but before its patent was granted. Both applicants were granted patents. A letter from the doctor, dated March 10, alerted The Times to the error, and patent research delayed this correction.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shaping the brave new world of sexual medicine: From left, Jennifer Berman, urologist; Laura Berman, sex therapist; and Irwin Goldstein, urologist.; The organ chamber at the urology lab of Boston University, where rabbit vaginas are tested by researchers. (Photographs by Clang for The New York Times); Sexual Healing: Soon, a variety of remedies for sexual dysfunction -- and ways to enhance sexual performance -- will become available to men and women.
 
Testosterone patch: This device, made by Procter & Gamble, delivers testosterone to the pelvic region. But it's not for men only. Several companies are working on a version for women whose testosterone production and sex drive have decreased after hysterectomies or other sex-organ surgery.
 
Viagra: The Granddaddy of pharmaceutical sex medicine, the little blue pill was introduced to the market in 1998. Its popularity has helped to make its producer, Pfizer, the second-largest drug company in the world.
 
Prostaglandin E-1 cream: To stimulate blood flow to the genital area, Vivus is developing a topical cream for women that contains this ingredient. It is intended to alleviate arousal and orgasm dysfunction and enhance vaginal lubrication.
 
Alprostadil cream: NexMed is working on its own topical cream for women, similar to prostaglandin E-1. It is also developing a topcial therapy for male impotence.
 
Clitoral device: Beyond pills or hormonal creams, one company is taking a nonpharmacological approach to treating women with sexual dysfunction. UroMetrics is developing the Eros Clitoral Therapy Device, a small pump with a cup, about the size of a thimble, that fits over the clitoris. It is designed to stimulate blood flow to the organ, thereby enhancing sensation and lubrication and enabling its user to achieve orgasm more easily.
 
Drawing (Tom Tomorrow)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Memorial Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SEX; MEN; WOMEN; VIAGRA (DRUG); IMPOTENCE SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (89%); EASTER SEASON (88%); 

PERSON: WESTCARR, MILDREDHITT, JACK

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000February 20, 2000



446 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: American Effort to Isolate Belgrade Falters

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, April 15

 BODY:
Despite the indictment of President Slobodan Milosevic on war crimes charges and the efforts of Washington to isolate his government, the Western diplomatic quarantine of Yugoslavia has broken down, with every major European country represented here by senior diplomats.
Only the United States has no diplomats here and has no plans to send any as long as Mr. Milosevic remains in power, even though it continues to retain a local staff of about 50 people. 
 Most NATO countries withdrew their diplomats during the war, but have slowly seen the need for some representation in Belgrade, generally regarding Yugoslavia as too important to ignore. But sending new ambassadors is awkward because convention requires a meeting with the head of state, who in this case has been indicted for war crimes.
On the French Embassy here, there is a sign that says, "Embassy of Switzerland, French interest section." The embassy functions with three envoys, who issue visas, provide consular services and also behave quite like diplomats. Similarly, the British, with a senior diplomat who had already served four years here, are formally represented by Brazil, the Germans by Japan.
And both France and Germany have issued limited visas, for European parliamentary meetings, to Yugoslav officials like the former Socialist Party spokesman, Ivica Dacic, who are on the European and American lists of people banned from traveling to the West.
In general, the Europeans want to distinguish between the isolation of the government and Serbian people, who still regard themselves as Western-oriented. The tension between the Clinton administration and the European Union over the efficiency of sanctions and how to bring down Mr. Milosevic surfaces regularly, with many Europeans believing that opening up trade, contacts and travel with Serbia will bring down Mr. Milosevic much faster than isolation, which his government manipulates in its propaganda of a brave Serbia surrounded by enemies.
This winter, for example, the Europeans went ahead with oil and energy aid for Serbian cities controlled by the opposition against strong initial American objections, and the Europeans also forced through the lifting of a ban on air travel to and from Belgrade -- one of the main requests of the democratic opposition here.
Just last week, Australia rebuffed sharp American complaints and sent a new ambassador to Belgrade who presented his credentials to Mr. Milosevic on Thursday, together with the new Russian ambassador, in a ceremony covered lavishly in the state news media here.
Washington and many European capitals are trying to avoid giving Mr. Milosevic that kind of propaganda opportunity, which would let him show that the world is coming to terms with his survival in power.
The Australian foreign minister, Alexander Downer, said Canberra had refused a direct American request, reportedly from Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, to drop the appointment, or at least to skip the meeting with Mr. Milosevic and fax the new ambassador's credentials instead.
But the Yugoslav Foreign Ministry has insisted that countries abide by the Vienna conventions governing diplomacy and present credentials to the head of state. The Americans "asked us if we would fax the credentials," Mr. Downer said. "The Yugoslav authorities made it clear they wouldn't accept faxed credentials."
The Greeks and Italians, NATO members with traditionally close historical and business ties to the Serbs, kept embassies open here during the bombing war, as did Canada. The Italians also want to send a new ambassador here, but are trying to negotiate a way to avoid a meeting with the indicted Mr. Milosevic.
But they are expected to have no more success than the Australians did, which will force them to either meet Mr. Milosevic or downgrade their official representation here to a charge d'affaires or deputy chief of mission ad interim, appointments that do not require the presentation of credentials to the head of state.
Diplomats here said they had hoped that the strange tale of the Portuguese ambassador, Antonio Tanger de Correa, would create a model. Portugal is the current president of the European Union, a six-month term that ends with June, and Lisbon asked Belgrade to approve the appointment before the war and Mr. Milosevic's indictment.
Unusually, given his European role, Belgrade agreed to accept his credentials at the level of the first deputy foreign minister. But the government does not invite Mr. Tanger de Correa to receptions or official meetings because his credentials have not been presented to the head of state; it invites the Portuguese deputy chief of mission instead.
"At first we thought there would be a 'Portuguese model,' " one diplomat said. "But we were wrong. The Portuguese ambassador is really treated like a nonentity here, not really like a diplomat at all."
A Yugoslav diplomat said: "We are a real country and not some African colony," stressing that diplomatic conventions require ambassadorial appointments to be accepted by heads of state.
Other governments have avoided the problem by not rotating ambassadors or by bringing in lower-ranking diplomats, effectively downgrading relations. This is what Washington had done even before the NATO bombing war, with the embassy here headed by a senior diplomat, Richard Miles, who had been an ambassador in other countries but had a deputy rank here. Mr. Miles is an ambassador again, now in Bulgaria.
The Czech Republic, which is applying to the European Union, has kept its ambassador here, Ivan Busniak, for about four years. But Prague is unsure if it will rotate him. If he leaves, Prague -- mindful of its Western orientation -- has decided to replace him with a deputy chief of mission ad interim "and wait for better times," the ambassador said.
The Clinton administration denied a report in the Sunday Times of London last week that it would send a low-level diplomat here by June. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 30, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 16 about the faltering United States effort to isolate the government of Yugoslavia referred incorrectly to the status of the Canadian Embassy in Belgrade during NATO's air campaign against Yugoslavia last year. It did not remain open during the bombing. The embassy suspended operations on March 23, the day before the campaign began, and reopened in October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); SERBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); KOSOVO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (52%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); EUROPE (98%); SERBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); KOSOVO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (52%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



447 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; Television

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: MOVIES: CRITIC'S CHOICE

BYLINE: By Anita Gates

 BODY:
No film has ever done more for the self-esteem of middle-aged men without gym memberships than THE FULL MONTY (1997), directed by Peter Cattaneo. Robert Carlyle heads a group of unemployed steelworkers in Sheffield, England, who decide to earn some much-needed money by becoming male strippers. Tom Wilkinson, as the dignified former foreman, is also memorable in this irresistibly endearing comedy - Thursday at 8 p.m. on Channel 5.
 
Some middle-aged men have other hobbies. Even those of us who swear by Adrian Lyne's 1997 remake with Jeremy Irons and Dominique Swain have to admit that Stanley Kubrick's original LOLITA (1962) is a haunting, provocative film. It was no mean feat to film a novel about an aging pedophile and the adolescent girl he worships, not from afar, at a time when an actress wearing a slip on screen was considered risque. James Mason is Humbert Humbert, Shelley Winters is Lolita's emotionally needy mother, and Peter Sellers, as has been noted elsewhere, steals the film as Quilty, Lolita's other admirer. But let's face it, Sue Lyon, 16 at the time, does look much too mature to be Nabokov's nymphet - Sunday at 6 p.m. on TCM.
 A tough Philadelphia cop needs a place to hide from the bad guys, so he moves in with the Amish. Only an actor as sure of himself as Harrison Ford could look as convincing raising a barn in the Pennsylvania sun as he does carrying a gun, and he does both in Peter Weir's physically gorgeous WITNESS (1985). Kelly McGillis is charminga s the young Amish widow who takes a sinful shine to him. And although you can't call it the film's finest scene, there's something particuarly satisfying about the moment when Mr. Ford, disguised as an Amish farmer, has had enough of tourists taunting his pacifist hosts and punches one (tourist) in the nose - Sunday at 2:30 p.m. on TBS.
 As long as we're talking about Harrison Ford, this year's recipient of the American Film Institute's Life Achievement Award, look for him in full hero mode in Phillip Noyce's CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER (1994). Mr. Ford plays Tom Clancy's C.I.A. agent hero, Jack Ryan, this time up against Colombian drug lords and with action sequences galore - Tuesday at 9 p.m. on USA.
 Were it not for Diane Keaton, BABY BOOM (1987) might have been sitcomishly silly. But she's outstanding as a single, career-driven Manhattanite who inherits a relative's baby girl and is not pleased - at first. Ms. Keaton's character is forced to restructure her life, which ultimately means packing up and moving to the country. Where the local veterinarian just happens to be tall, handsome, available and Sam Shepard. Ms. Keaton's character finds additional happiness as a devoted mother and big-time mail-order entrepreneur - Sunday at 1 p.m. on TNT.
 You probably thought single moms were an invention of the 20th century. Tell that to Marmee (Spring Byington), who has to do double duty with her houseful of daughters while Mr. March is away. Byington is only one of the joys in Little Women (1933), still the grandest of the three film versions of Louisa May Alcott's novel, set in 1860's New England. And how could it miss, with Katharine Hepburn as the beautifully headstrong Jo? Joan Bennett as Amy and Edna May Oliver as Aunt March as among her co-stars. And who else but George Cukor could have directed? - Saturday at 5 p.m. on TCM.
 - Anita Gates
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Snape, left, and Robert Carlyle star in "The Full Monty." (Fox Searchlight Pictures); Kelly McGillis and Harrison Ford in "Witness" (1985), on TBS. (Paramount Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (90%); COLOMBIA (67%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (90%); COLOMBIA (67%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (90%); FILM (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (68%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); 

PERSON: HARRISON FORD (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2000



448 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Towns Protest Proposed Water Rules

BYLINE: By NICOLE ITANO 

 BODY:
ASET of groundwater protection regulations being proposed by the State Department of Environmental Protection has come under fire from a few central Connecticut towns whose officials believe the rules will cripple their economic growth.
Local officials said the regulations weren't needed because businesses already obey a host of other environmental regulations, but the D.E.P. said current regulations aren't doing enough. With opponents predicting the regulations will make their towns inhospitable to business and environmentalists countering that the rules are needed to protect the state's drinking water, the issue is becoming a classic battle over the proper balance between business and environmental interests. 
 "If mobile pollutants are discharged in these areas, they are going into the wells, they are not going to Nova Scotia," said Supervising Sanitary Engineer Randy May. "What I keep saying to people is would you build a foundry on the banks of a public reservoir? They say of course not."
The regulations date to a 1989 bill that passed the State Legislature unanimously and applies to any aquifer that provides water for at least 1,000 people. The rules would prohibit businesses that use certain hazardous materials from moving onto land above aquifers that supply public wells. The list of businesses that could be affected by the new regulations includes gas stations, dry cleaners, chemical manufacturers and electronic circuit board producers.
Although the new regulations would apply to only 2 percent of the state's land, there are some towns above aquifers that feed public wells that said the rules would hinder development over large portions of their land. Most of the affected areas are concentrated along the Farmington and Quinnipiac River valleys and in a handful of central Connecticut towns.
The elected officials and business owners in these towns are the most vehement opponents to the proposal. Fifty-eight percent of Plainville and 36 percent of Southington will be affected by the rules, and officials there are worried that the effects will be drastic.
"If it was only 2 percent of Plainville, we could handle that," Town Manager Robert Jackson said. "But when you get to 60 percent, that's a major impact. What that means to us is tax dollars. It means that we won't be able to use that land for certain uses."
Mr. Jackson and other opponents of the regulations said they want clean water. They just believe pollution can be prevented through regulation rather than prohibition. A public hearing on the new regulations is scheduled for June 16 at the D.E.P. offices in Hartford.
It is in those areas where the regulations are most controversial that the need for them was most strongly seen a decade ago.
One of the bill's sponsors was Angelo Fusco, a former state representative from Southington who counts the aquifer protection program among his greatest achievements.
"I saw a town's drinking water being devastated by pollution, both past and present, and I wanted it stopped," said Mr. Fusco, a Republican. "My former district had two Superfund sites within five miles of each other, the old Southington land fill and Solvents Recovery Inc. I wanted to make sure that the damage that happened in my small community never would happen again."
The regulation's opponents, many of whom are Mr. Fusco's former colleagues and constituents, argue that times have changed and that businesses take their environmental responsibility seriously.
"The reality of the matter is that these regulations are 20 years behind the time," said Paul Marin, an environmental consultant who has been working with officials and business leaders in Plainville and Southington. "There are a whole host of best management practices that people use today to keep the pollutants out of the environment. And it works. It is working." Mr. Marin added that most of the state's contaminated wells were polluted decades ago, long before anyone recognized the hazards they posed to human health.
State officials and environmental groups counter that even industries that take strong environmental precautions pose a threat to groundwater. They point out that between 1998 and 1999 there were 1,800 to 2,000 in the state reported industrial and commercial spills and that the number of contaminated wells in the state is steadily increasing. The D.E.P. said that between 1989 and 1999, 12 new public wells were polluted severely enough to require treatment. There are 139 such wells in the state.
"This is the most common-sense response to the problem of aquifer pollution," said Daniel Lorimier, a spokesman for the Connecticut Fund for the Environment. "It is certainly much less expense to prevent the pollution than to treat it after it happens. These regulations are long overdue and sorely needed by the state of Connecticut."
The decade-long delay between the passage of authorizing legislation and the public release of the proposed regulations on March 27 is the result of a long debate, both within the D.E.P. and between it and other constituencies, over the best way to protect the state's aquifer water. Agency officials said the current draft represented a long evolution toward a set of regulations that balance environmental and business needs. Opponents said that balance is still skewed.
"There's going to be all kinds of chaos if this goes through as currently thought of," said Roger Klene, president and chief executive of the Mott Corporation, a metallurgical company in Farmington located on one of the biggest aquifers in the state. "The biggest problem here is not for the companies. We're mobile. But the community can't move. It's left holding the bag for the devastation caused by these terrible rules."
Much of the disagreement between the D.E.P. and those who oppose the regulations is rooted in the two side's conflicting predictions about how the department will interpret the rules.
Local officials like Mr. Jackson and business owners like Mr. Klene said they believed the regulations will drive away businesses and restrict the ability of existing businesses to expand and remain competitive. They worry that even though the regulations will allow existing business to expand and make provisions for new businesses that use nonpolluting procedures, the D.E.P.'s permitting process will be so onerous that it will stymie the ability of business to adapt and grow.
"Our experience with the D.E.P. is that the people you talk to when you're talking about a regulation like this all are very reasonable people," Mr. Klene said. "Then when you get into the permitting part, you're dealing with a bureaucrat who doesn't care about how much you have to spend to do what they're asking."
The Department of Economic and Community Development said it was still too early to determine the economic effect of the regulations, but emphasized that they had confidence that the D.E.P. will be able to balance economic and environmental concerns.
D.E.P. officials said Mr. Klene and others misunderstand the regulations and the agency's intentions.
"What dismays me is the lack of fact of some of the opposition," said Arthur J. Rocque Jr., the state commissioner of environmental protection. "They're basing their concerns on early drafts, sometimes drafts as many as two to three years old. Our position is that the way the regulations are drafted, with reasonable precautions against the inadvertent release of hazardous chemicals, virtually any activity can be located in these areas."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker at the Mott Corporation a metallurgical company in Farmington located on an aquifer. (Don Heiny for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION DEPARTMENT (CONN)

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION DEPARTMENT (CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WATER QUALITY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); TRENDS (72%); GAS STATIONS (66%); CHEMICALS (65%); CHEMICALS MFG (65%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ITANO, NICOLE ANGELO FUSCO (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2000



449 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Modern and Tate Team Up For Commercial Web Site

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
In an unusual marriage of the nonprofit museum world and the money-hungry e-commerce industry, the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan and the Tate Gallery and its branches in Britain have formed a partnership to create an Internet business for art, culture and design.
Plans for the company include a Web site to sell commissioned design products and to offer such educational programs as live Webcasts of lectures and concerts. It will also carry archival material on art. 
 Profits from the site will help pay the museums' escalating operating expenses. This will be the first time any art museum has used its reputation, expertise and outreach to start a profit-making company.
But the Modern and the Tate are not the first nonprofit institutions to do so. In the last few months several academic centers -- Columbia University, the New York Public Library, the British Library, the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History, the London School of Economics and Political Science and Cambridge University Press -- have teamed up to start Fathom.com, a Web site designed to provide specialized information and general knowledge.
To preserve the museums' tax-exempt status as nonprofit institutions, the venture by the Modern and the Tate (as yet unnamed) will be a separate entity with its own staff, board of directors and offices. A chief executive is being sought to run the business from New York.
"This venture is not just two guys dreaming in their garage, but a company built on two institutions' history, stability and knowledge," said Glenn D. Lowry, director of the Modern. "The Internet is a world of strange, overlapping and intersecting interests. We're all exploring how to operate in that world, and there's a scramble for the design and culture dot-com space. Between us we have the engine to found this new company, which will not only have a major presence in the United States but in England and Europe too."
The project comes at a crucial time for both institutions. The Tate is opening the $208 million Tate Gallery of Modern Art in Bankside, just opposite St. Paul's Cathedral in London, next month, while the Modern is embarking on a $650 million expansion.
"We both realized that to have a steady stream of income to ensure a strong future is crucial," Mr. Lowry said. "This company will have long-term value for both of us." Eventually, Mr. Lowry added, the company could go public.
While officials from both museums said it was too early to project how much money they could expect from the company, they expected revenues from advertising, licensing, merchandise sales, pay-per-view for certain types of events and information, as well as syndication of original content.
Mr. Lowry said he and Sir Nicholas Serota, director of the Tate, had been discussing ways they could collaborate beyond joint exhibitions when they realized that each was separately investigating the possibility of a profit-making Web site. "We were on parallel tracks," Mr. Lowry said.
Sir Nicholas said: "I don't think one should underestimate what a big move this is for us. For two fiercely independent institutions that hitherto have been competitors to join forces like this takes a huge degree of trust."
Though neither museum would discuss the costs needed to start the company or the profits it expected to earn, a source close to the venture said that the Modern had raised several million dollars. The next stage would involve raising about $50 million from investors.
The company is scheduled to set up its Web site later in the year or early next year.
Both museums have independent Web sites (www.moma.org and
www.tate.org.uk) that they plan to keep. Each museum had more than 5 million visitors last year, and each institution's Web site received an additional 4 million visitors. Together the museums manage retail operations with $50 million in annual sales.
Their joint site would be drastically different from either their Web sites or their stores, both directors said. For starters it would have ads, which the museum Web sites do not have. It would also sell products like furniture, design objects and books exclusive to the site and commissioned by designers and architects from many sources. The items would be more varied than those available on the Modern's current Web site, which offers merchandise mainly from its store on West 53rd Street. While the site would not offer original artworks, it would sell multiple-edition prints or photographs.
Among the educational programs it would offer are customized art tours, virtual-reality tours of collections and exhibitions, archival material, Webcasts of live lectures, concerts and performances from around the world and critical essays. There will also be ticketing for art events and courses.
Mr. Lowry does not see the venture as a conflict of interest to the museums' missions as educational institutions. "We have built in all the appropriate fire walls," Mr. Lowry said. "No trustee or their family and no staff member of either museum can invest in this company should it go public. It will have an independent board. There will also be licensing arrangements to safeguard our interests." Still, the museums intend to control the site's content. Two members from the boards of the museums will sit on the company's board.
In the curatorial world the formation of such a company may be looked down upon by some as being overly commercial, but Mary Lea Bandy, chief curator of film and video at the Modern and its deputy director for curatorial affairs, thinks otherwise: "Museums, like libraries and universities, are filled with curators, professors and scholars who are eager to share their expertise to as many people as possible, which is something a project like this can do. For those of us in film, video, architecture, design or photography -- any art form that exists in multiple forms -- the possibilities are fantastic." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); TATE GALLERY (LONDON) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (56%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (56%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); TATE GALLERY (LONDON) NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (56%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (56%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ART; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); HISTORY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); LIBRARIES (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (76%); WEB SITES (76%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); WEBCASTS (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (71%); PAY PER VIEW (71%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (52%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: LOWRY, GLENN D; SEROTA, NICHOLAS (SIR); VOGEL, CAROL GLENN D LOWRY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



450 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 24; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Fed Expected To Continue Same Course

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
As the markets reopen today, one of the biggest questions weighing on investors' minds is what the Federal Reserve might do. The answer: no change in policy.
Certainly that is the expectation on Wall Street. Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has committed the central bank to a series of small interest rate increases until the economy slows and stock markets, in response, calm down. The sell-off Friday does not alter that policy. 
 "Unless there is evidence that the financial markets are under more strain than we have seen so far, there is no reason to believe that the Fed will alter course," said John Lipsky, chief economist at Chase Manhattan Bank. What is required is evidence of a panic in which lending and borrowing dry up and markets cease to function.
That did not happen Friday. As Albert Wojnilower, an economist at Craig Drill Capital and the Clipper Group, put it, "As long as you were willing to sell at $5 or $10 or $15 down, there were buyers."
Through statements and actions, Mr. Greenspan has locked the Fed into a fairly predictable approach. He has argued that investors' enthusiasm for stocks is largely a rational response to rising productivity and to expectations of rising profits. But even rational markets can get ahead of themselves, and investors' gains from rising stock prices have created more demand for goods and services than the economy can continue to supply. The result is likely to be inflationary pressure.
Or so Mr. Greenspan has argued. As a result, the Fed has raised rates by a quarter of a percentage point on five occasions since last June. In this context, Friday's sell-off can be viewed as part of the change that the rate increases are intended to bring about.
Even after Friday's tumble, the major indexes are still far from reversing the gains of the 1990's. The Dow Jones industrial average and the Wilshire 5000, a very broad stock measure, are now only back to where they were a year ago, Mr. Lipsky noted, and the Nasdaq is still up nearly 34 percent since last spring.
For the Fed to change course now -- either cutting rates or even failing to go up another quarter point at the next Fed policy-making meeting on, on May 16 -- would be a signal to investors that the Fed stands ready to bail them out, Mr. Roach and others on Wall Street argued yesterday. That would cause stock prices to shoot up again, most analysts believe.
"The typical risk taker will say, 'Oh, that is nice, the Fed will bail us out,' " said David M. Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston, a Wall Street bond firm.
The Fed has supplied relief to offset past panics, which it has defined as moments in which markets seize up. In panics, buyers all but disappear despite plunging stock prices. Lenders also pull back or seek the safe haven of Treasury securities. And markets, in effect, cease to function.
"Borrowers won't borrow, lenders won't lend and investors find themselves unable to buy and sell securities in the desired volumes, regardless of price," Mr. Lipsky said.
That happened on Oct. 19, 1987, when the Dow Jones industrial average fell by 21 percent -- far beyond the 5.66 percent decline on Friday. Reversing course -- then like now, Mr. Greenspan had been trying to slow the economy through interest rate increases -- the Fed cut rates and promised lenders plenty of liquidity to stay afloat if borrowers defaulted.
Mr. Greenspan, appointed Fed chairman only a few months earlier, fashioned that strategy, and he invoked the same rate-cutting policy again in the fall of 1998, after Russia defaulted on its debts and Long Term Capital Management, a hedge fund, almost failed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, in Washington yesterday. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); DOW JONES & CO INC (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INFLATION (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



451 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Technology Stock Sell-Off Causes a Wave of Anxiety
The steep drop last week in the price of technology stocks, punctuating a three-week slide, seems to mark a turning point in perceptions. Unless the technology shares rebound quickly, some experts say, the Internet industry will no longer be seen as a sure thing for investors and entrepreneurs hoping to cash in quickly.
A few bad days are one thing, but with the shares of many leading technology companies down by 40 percent or 50 percent in less than a month, the sell-off is causing anxiety across the New Economy. Page A1.
 
China Economy Surged in Quarter
China's economy showed surprising signs of strength in the first quarter, with gross domestic product rising 8.1 percent, suggesting that a slide in growth rate may be ending. C12. 

Finding Balance for E-Commerce
Alex Stark, a practicioner of feng shui, the ancient Chinese art of harmonious balance, brought his talents to cyberspace last week. He performed a feng shui ceremony at the Web site of Corcoran.com, which sells luxury homes, concluding that the site was not aligned to promote harmony -- or e-commerce. Dissonant elements included misplaced "help" and "dream" buttons. Barbara Corcoran, whose Corcoran Group runs the site, said that she asked her Web designer to retune the site. C4.
 
Rally Supports a Coke Settlement
Former employees of Coca-Cola and activists who want the soft drink company to settle a racial discrimination suit began a five-day bus trip that will end Wednesday at the company's annual shareholder meeting. C2.
 
New Efforts in Journalism Diversity
The Freedom Forum and the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation are underwriting at least $5.5 million of new efforts to increase the number of blacks, Asian-Americans, Native Americans and Latino journalists entering the profession. C2.
 
Canada Press Baron Assails Bishop
Conrad Black, the Canadian press baron, attacked the local bishop in Calgary early this month, writing in The Calgary Herald that the bishop was a Leninist-style "useful idiot," among other things. Calgary's Christian leaders condemned the statement. C21.
 
Parents Dispute a Daughter's Tale
The article "Party's Over" in the April issue of Allure is full of family intrigue, sex and alcohol abuse. In the article, Taylor Stein, a blonde habitue of the Manhattan party circuit, speaks at length about how the childhood neglect she suffered contributed to her alcoholism. But there is one question of ethics raised by the article: the magazine never checked out Ms. Stein's stories with her parents, and in fact points out that it obtained the interview on the condition that it would not do so. Her parents now say the tale is a fabrication. Media. C21.
 
Technology Hurdles to Online Music
The record companies BMG and Sony Music Entertainment recently announced long-awaited plans to sell their music online through digital downloads. But the fine print suggests mainstream Internet users are not going to buy their music digitally any time soon. Despite the promise of digital downloads for the masses, the technical challenges could continue to confine the audience mainly to college students. New Economy. C4.
 
New Approach to 'Affinity Portals'
A fresh spin is emerging on "affinity portals" -- gateways aimed at every slice of the Internet population. Rather than spend millions persuading group members to come to a portal designed for them, companies are working with associations that already cater to such groups to build portals for their members. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C16.
 
Second Careers for 'Seinfeld' Actors
The second bananas of "Seinfeld" are turning up in campaigns for products ranging from cars and candy to soft drinks and prescription drugs. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C26.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,305.77 down 805.71
Nasdaq composite -- 3,321.29 down 1,125.16
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.78% up 0.08
The euro -- $0.9596 up 0.0051
The dollar -- 105.09 yen down 0.29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ALBERTA, CANADA (86%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (54%); FREEDOM FORUM INC (53%); CORCORAN GROUP (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORCORAN GROUP (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); ALBERTA, CANADA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEW ECONOMY (79%); INTERNET & WWW (79%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); ASIAN AMERICANS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (70%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); ETHICS (68%); WRITERS (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); RACE & RACISM (64%); SOFT DRINKS (64%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (60%); NATIVE AMERICANS (55%); 

PERSON: TAYLOR STEIN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



452 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 24; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: After Weekend Lull, Investors Wait forOther Shoe

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON and LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
Investors large and small looked ahead over the weekend, nervously wondering if the selling that tore through United States stocks last week will resume when the markets reopen this morning.
With markets closed, Wall Street only appeared quiet Saturday and yesterday. But behind the scenes, securities firms and many investors were making preparations for today, which at the least promises to be volatile. Investment bankers said that mergers and initial public offerings are likely to be put on hold until the market settles down. Already, dozens of initial offerings have been canceled or postponed, including one for the AltaVista Internet portal. 
 Big mutual fund companies like Fidelity Investments mobilized employees to handle an expected surge in telephone calls from nervous investors. Money managers found themselves in their offices yesterday, talking to clients and considering whether to take advantage of last week's plunge to buy shares -- or preserve their remaining gains by selling more of their portfolios. In Silicon Valley, home to many of the New Economy stocks that have suffered the biggest declines, investors and technology company employees largely shrugged off their losses as to be expected in their volatile sector.
Indeed, outright panic was hard to find over the weekend, except among the minority of investors who have bought stocks with borrowed money and are facing margin calls, or demands from their brokers that they put more cash into their accounts as collateral.
But if hysteria was scarce, so was optimism about a quick turnaround. Many conservative investors still think that technology stocks are too expensive, and more aggressive investors are reeling from their enormous losses in the last month.
Frederic E. Rowe, a general partner in Greenbrier Partners, a money management firm in Dallas, said from his office yesterday that he was there "licking his wounds." Mr. Rowe, a value-oriented investor, said his conservative posture had helped him on Friday, when his portfolio fell less than the 5.8 percent drop posted by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Still, like many investors, Mr. Rowe said the speed and ferocity of the plunge had left him stunned.
"It happened so fast," he said. Instead of acting abruptly on today, Mr. Rowe said, he planned to "just sit there there and hold my breath."
Mark Rowland, an Atlanta money manager who has avoided buying the new technology names that led the Nasdaq market up last year and are leading it down this month, said that the that market remains expensive, despite its huge decline. "We used to sell dollar bills for $2," Mr. Rowland said. "Now we've cut the price to $1.50. An elevator dropping from the 100th floor to the 50th floor is not the bargain basement."
Like many cautious investors, Mr. Rowland said the Nasdaq sell-off was an important lesson for inexperienced investors whose aggressive bets on technology have been rewarded over the last couple of years. They are finally learning that stocks can drop as well as rise, he said.
"The stock market is an expensive place to go to grad school," Mr. Rowland said. "For the ready-fire-aim crowd, they need to do a little homework."
About the only Wall Street types who were working less than usual this weekend were investment bankers, who suddenly find few buyers for the companies whose shares they underwrite, or sell to the public. Their merger work has also faded, with many corporate executives reluctant to do deals when their share prices are swinging wildly.
Deal makers who would usually be working spent the weekend playing golf, at church services celebrating Palm Sunday, or soothing clients by telephone. But most bankers were saying that the merger pace will not slow dramatically unless the sell-off continues.
"There are certain sectors that will be disrupted but, in general, we are looking to the overall, real economy," Steve Munger, co-head of global mergers and acquisitions at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said. And while the downdraft in Internet stock values has to be dealt with, he added, "it's not like it was unanticipated."
A rapidly declining market can also cause deals that have already been struck to unravel. But few blockbuster deals are pending, and the most notable of this year, January's announced combination of America Online and Time Warner, seems immune to market turmoil. One deal that could hit snags if the stock prices fall further and stay down is MCI/WorldCom's announced acquisition of Sprint, traders said.
Meanwhile, some money-losing Internet companies are already concerned that they may have difficultly lining up new investments, bankers said. Several companies, have called venture capitalists in search of new capital -- including eToys, according to a person close to that company.
Larger companies that do have spare cash are meanwhile deciding whether to buy or invest in the Internet companies whose shares have fallen. But few are likely to rush in today, opting instead to see if prices of Internet companies fall further. Traditional retailers, for instance, have already embarked on plans to build their own Internet sites, and have less need to acquire fledgling Web retailers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Futures traders at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange on Friday reflected on a hectic day during which the Nasdaq fell 355.49 points. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (79%); BONDS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (70%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (55%); 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX; HOLSON, LAURA M MARK ROWLAND (75%); FREDERIC E ROWE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



453 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Strategists in a Strange Land

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Thomas McManus, equity strategist at Bank of America Securities, spent a lot of time on the phone over the weekend talking to clients and some time thumbing through two books from his library: "The Great Crash, 1929" by John Kenneth Galbraith and "Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds," Charles Mackay's 19th-century classic about investment mania.
"I'm looking for an analogous time," Mr. MaManus said yesterday from his home. "The behavior of individual investors at this juncture is a very important thing to consider, and all we have is anecdotal reports and our own conversations with clients." 
 Mr. McManus and other strategists are trying to divine what owners of technology stocks are likely to do today, after a weekend of brooding about the market's decline. But because their behavior is so hard to forecast, those in the predicting business are sticking with the outlooks they held before the market plunged on Thursday and Friday.
The technology rout sent the Nasdaq down 25.3 percent last week, its worst weekly decline. But many technology stocks have plunged much farther. Qualcomm, which makes wireless communications products, has fallen 33 percent the last two and a half weeks. Palm, which makes hand-held personal digital assistants, was down to $31.625 on Friday, off almost 67 percent from its March high.
"Some investors have seen a major portion of their investments vaporize," Mr. McManus said. "What does this cause them to do?"
He expects the low prices of old economy stocks -- the established industrial and consumer products companies -- will draw investors' attention and help offset further declines in technology stocks. And he will advise clients to raise the weighting of stocks in their portfolios to 80 percent from 75 percent. But, he acknowledges, big losses in technology might force some to sell other stocks to cover or offset losses.
Now is not the time to panic, said Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief United States strategist at Lehman Brothers and a longtime stock market bull.
"We're not gearing up for Armageddon," he said, noting that Lehman would not depart from routine this morning, beginning with a 7:45 meeting on the market's outlook. At 8:45, the firm's risk-management committee plans to hold its regular meeting.
Yet, Mr. Applegate said he did alter his routine on Friday by sending a note to clients as the Nasdaq was heading to a 9.7 percent decline and the Dow Jones industrial average was losing 5.7 percent.
"I told them this is not the end of the bull market," he said.
Byron R. Wien, United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, spent the weekend deciding what he would say at Morgan Stanley's Monday morning strategy session. "Some of us were looking for this for a long time," he said, alluding to his longstanding view that the stock market was just too overvalued.
"I am going to say that the market is much less overvalued than it was, but that I think that technology has further to go and that the overall market has farther to go," he said.
The key to the market's performance today, Mr. Wien said, would be whether last week's drastic plunge had finally "broken the psychology that every dip is a buying opportunity." The sharp declines of the last several years did not accomplish that, he acknowledged, since they were followed by significant recoveries. "But this looks more like the kind of move that could break that psychology." If it does, it will take away a cushion for stocks, he said.
At Merrill Lynch, David Bowers, chief investment strategist, and Richard McCabe, chief market strategist, will join the regular morning meeting of analysts, according to James Wiggins, a spokesman.
Mr. Wiggins added that Merrill would urge its brokers to "remind their clients that the best investment approach is to take a long-term view and to keep their long-term objectives in mind."
"We have been in periods of volatility before," he said, "and this is the approach we take."
Abby Joseph Cohen, chief market strategist at Goldman, Sachs, said on Friday that she was sticking to her modestly bullish outlook. "As we look at our expectations for earnings, economic growth and so on, nothing has changed during the past two weeks," she said in an interview on CNBC. Ms. Cohen's always careful comments will be scrutinized because some investors think that she helped sour the mood in the market.
On March 28, she said she had cut the share of stocks in Goldman's model portfolio to 65 percent from 70 percent. At the same time, she said that technology stocks were "no longer undervalued."
In the CNBC interview, Ms. Cohen said, "We are very comfortable with the mainline technology companies with fabulous product development, revenue and earnings."
Her comfort, apparently, does not include the dot-coms, which had led the market higher and are now threatening to pull it even lower.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart
As market stategists go to work on Monday, they will tread terrain that has become increasingly rocky.
 
Dec. 5, 1996 -- In a speech, the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, asks, "How do we know when irrational exuberance has unduly escalated asset values?"
 
PUB-DATE: March 25, 1997
 
Sept. 29, 1998 -- In response to Asian financial crisis, Fed begins reducing short-term interest rates, with a 0.25% cut, to 5.25%.
 
Oct. 15, 1998 -- Fed cuts to 5%
 
Nov. 17, 1998 -- Fed cuts to 4.75%
 
PUB-DATE: June 30, 1999
 
PUB-DATE: March 28, 2000
 
Aug. 24, '99 -- Raises to 5.25%
 
Nov. 16,1999 -- Raises to 5.5%
 
Feb.2, 2000 -- Raises to 5.75%
 
PUB-DATE: March 21, 2000
 
(Reuters)(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (72%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); QUALCOMM INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); BONDS (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (70%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (66%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



454 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metro Desk 

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: An Appraisal;
From the Guggenheim, a Bold Vision for a Lower Manhattan Museum

BYLINE: By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
How many ways can you say "Wow"? In the weeks ahead New Yorkers will certainly find more articulate words to describe Frank O. Gehry's design for a museum that the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation hopes to build along the East River in Lower Manhattan. Silence would be eloquent, too. But only for the repressed. Otherwise, this is the moment to look for noisemakers left over from New Year's Eve and give them one more toot. Here comes architecture.
Models of the design by Mr. Gehry, the architect of the acclaimed Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain, will be presented in "Project for a New Guggenheim Museum in New York City," which opens on Wednesday at the Guggenheim's main building on Fifth Avenue at 89th Street, designed in 1959 by Frank Lloyd Wright. The featured attraction is a large model, 12 feet long and 5 feet high, which displays the design in close-up detail. Other models present the project as it would appear in the Lower Manhattan cityscape, though there is no guarantee it will ever be built. The proposed site, near the foot of Wall Street, is occupied by three piers scheduled for development by the New York City Economic Development Corporation. 
 Even as a purely speculative idea, however, this museum project performs an important civic service. A steel-plated vessel, floating atop a vast outdoor skating rink, this is an icebreaker of a design, a plan for crunching through rigid streetscapes and frozen minds.
And it is a test of the city's willingness to think big. Will it get built? The question is a waste of energy. Like other sideshows that have kept New York in denial about the mediocrity of the buildings it puts up, the feasibility question distracts from the challenge presented by the design. This is the top form architecture comes in these days. Want some?
Thomas Krens, the director of the Guggenheim Museum, said that the institution is committed to building another museum in Manhattan. The Fifth Avenue building is too small to display more than a fraction of the museum's permanent collection, which also includes examples of large-scale contemporary art. Mr. Krens envisions an arrangement in which the Wright building would display work from the late 19th century to 1945 while the downtown building would present art from 1945 to the present.
"Project for a New Guggenheim Museum in New York City" presents the record of a creative process leading to the birth of an idea. If this one doesn't fly, we can count on Mr. Krens to have others. In 1998 he set his eye on another waterfront site, on the Hudson River. Local opposition helped deflate that dream and it could shatter this one, too. Financial and government support are also hurdles.
Lower Manhattan is well stocked with cherished landmarks like the Brooklyn Bridge, the World Trade Center, the Woolworth Building, Trinity Church and 70 Pine Street. But it has been some time since the district's architecture has risen to their iconic level. One of the charms of Mr. Gehry's design is that it would recast mediocre towers in the supporting roles for which they are better suited.
If New York is a perpetual gift to the future, this design is its bow: a flourish of titanium ribbons (Mr. Gehry calls them wrappers) curled around half a million square feet of gallery space. The composition is roughly triangular, a pediment on square columns. The triangle is anchored at the northern and southern corners by two low-rise structures of boxy silhouette. The southern structure houses a terminal for a ferry that would take visitors to a sculpture garden on Governors Island. The northern structure contains a 1,200-seat theater.
Thirty-six galleries, ranging from 1,300 to 20,000 square feet, would be housed on three levels within the cloudlike tangle of ribbon and a 450-foot tower rising above it. The galleries would serve various uses. In addition to the permanent collection and temporary shows, they would present exhibitions for three departments: education, architecture and design, and art and technology.
As at the Guggenheim in Bilbao, the previous collaboration between Mr. Krens and Mr. Gehry, the museum's major space would be an atrium bathed in natural light; 26,000 square feet of gallery space would overlook the atrium's well. Escalators, forming a dramatic diagonal at the base of the space, would move visitors up from the open areas beneath the museum into the building's heart.
Six massive square columns, steel and concrete superpylons, would hold the mass aloft. Gardens, bridges, a waterside promenade and other public spaces would occupy petal-shaped platforms extending into the river. The free-form rink, beneath the museum's soaring underside, would be equipped with "Knife Ship I," a kinetic sculpture by Claes Oldenburg that was the focus of a performance piece created by Mr. Gehry, Mr. Oldenburg and Coosje van Bruggen for the 1985 Venice Biennale.
Looking at the models could give you whiplash. In New York architects have spent the last two decades viewing the present through a rearview mirror, as if the city came to a halt in the Art Deco era.
As with the Bilbao Guggenheim, Mr. Gehry shows that one of the purest ways to honor context is to play against it. Many have seen the Manhattan skyline as a geological formation of cliffs, peaks and canyons. Mr. Gehry treats the site as a natural wonder, a spot where mountains cascade into the sea. He has raised the horizon of the water, in waves that lap against the base of the cliffs, and pulled the sky down to the canyons, with changing light reflected in the museum's wavy metal surface. Expanses of glass, articulated with diagonal mullions, splash upward like jets of water formed by a Manhattan-bound meteor's narrow miss.
With the tower, the vertical dimension of the skyline reverberates into the foreground. The tower's leaning silhouette and flaring top talk back to the World Trade Center's scaleless, impersonal thrust.
Some architects, who still regard the Trade Center as an aesthetic abomination, have championed a revival of building crowns, by which they mean paperweights blown up to skyscraper scale. Here is another way to top a tower. Rip off roof. Cut jaggedly above penthouse. Let curtain walls droop. Instead of hiding structural spines behind marble and steel, as Mies van der Rohe did with the Seagram Building, just let them hang out there in the breeze.
Ordered complexity, not chaos, is the fundamental principle of this work. We should be used to this by now. It has been 35 years since Robert Venturi introduced the concepts of complexity and contradiction as an alternative to the unified simplicity of the International Style. Mr. Gehry's work, like Venturi's and Denise Scott Brown's, aims for the maximum complexity that can be transmitted through habitable space.
The wrappers are the most eye-catching element of the Guggenheim design, but it would be a mistake to think the project's importance rests entirely on Mr. Gehry's ability to sculpture arresting shapes. What matters here is the physiognomy of the shapes.
Intersubjectivity -- the idea that multiple perspectives can render a truth -- is the central concept governing this and other projects that Mr. Gehry has designed for the last 25 years. It is also the idea that many people find hardest to take. We still look to architecture to embody some ideal of external authority: history, science, nature and religion, to name a few. This Gehry declines to provide. Though he makes fleeting formal allusions to other times, other buildings, these images are mutable. They rise to the surface and sink back. Tell me what you see and I will tell you -- with wild inaccuracy, no doubt -- who you are.
Scale and relationship to context are two of the Rorschach tests this project must pass in the eye of the beholder. But the Guggenheim faces even bigger obstacles. Some will object that the design looks too much like Bilbao; New York, ever mindful of its uniqueness, deserves better than a remake of something designed for provincial Spain. Some will not want to invest hope in a project that has yet to obtain the required permits and financial and government support.
I wouldn't worry too much about the design's uniqueness. To philistines all modern glass towers are identical. When you've seen one titanium wrapper, you've seen 'em all. A model of the Bilbao museum, included in the exhibition, will enable viewers to compare the designs. But carping about formal similarity may just be part of the Nimby syndrome. Architecture is fine for Bilbao, but we don't want it here.
Since the demolition of Pennsylvania Station, the troops can be counted on to protest tinkering with a lamppost. We've only begun to awaken to the loss of heritage that occurs when a city is frozen in time.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A view of the south corner of the proposed new Guggenheim Museum, looking north. The design is by Frank O. Gehry, the architect of the acclaimed Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain. (David Heald/Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum)
 
Map of Manhattan showing the proposed museum site: Three piers now occupy the proposed Guggenheim Museum site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC) NEW YORK CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (88%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS; DESIGN MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT; GEHRY, FRANK O FRANK GEHRY (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



455 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Entrepreneur Pushes Plan To Fix California Schools

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: REDWOOD CITY, Calif.

 BODY:
In Timothy Draper's world, change occurs at a breakneck pace. A billionaire venture capitalist, he finances Internet start-ups that grow from business plan to public company in mere months. He came up with the concept of "viral marketing," instantaneously circulating advertisements by e-mail the world over.
In Silicon Valley, the pace is known as Internet time. So it is no surprise that Mr. Draper wants to transform overnight an institution that has long been dragged down by myriad problems: California's school system. 
 Mr. Draper has spent $2 million to try to get the nation's most far-reaching school voucher plan onto the November ballot. Under it, parents would be eligible for $4,000 a year per child for tuition at private schools, including parochial ones.
"Education reform has to happen from the outside," said Mr. Draper, 41. "I have to be the one to make sure it happens."
Mr. Draper's mantra has a familiar ring in Silicon Valley, where free-market and libertarian strains and newfound wealth have inspired a rush of interest in California's initiative process. But, as they would say here, Mr. Draper's politics are a few standard deviations from the mean.
He calls public education "socialistic" and advocates free-market solutions at every turn, even advocating legalizing drugs. He said his plan would empower parents to act as consumers shopping for the best education possible for their children.
The plan reflects his extreme strain of laissez-faire economics. It calls for using existing educational money for the $4,000 vouchers. But according to the latest National Education Association figures, California spent $5,627 per student in 1997-98, 40th in the nation and roughly $1,000 less than the national average.
Critics call the plan a drastic and simplistic solution to difficult problems: overcrowded and outmoded buildings, a lack of qualified teachers, textbooks and equipment and a growing number of students for whom English is a second language.
"It's dealing with very complex subjects, and it runs the risk of totally undermining school funding in California," said Bob Cherry, associate executive director of the California Teachers Association, a powerful organization with 300,000 members.
The association will provide stiff opposition to Mr. Draper. In 1993 it spent $16 million to defeat a similar initiative that voters rejected, 70 percent to 30 percent. This year, it is gathering signatures to put on the ballot a measure requiring the state to spend as much or more per student than the national average.
Paradoxically, it is an earlier voter initiative that is blamed by many for creating the state's educational quandary. Proposition 13, passed in 1978, capped some property taxes, thus limiting a major source of school financing.
Mr. Draper's initiative does not even have the support of all proponents of vouchers.
Terry Moe, a professor of political science at Stanford University, supports vouchers, but said they should be narrower than Mr. Draper's proposal. "There is a reason why, around the country," Mr. Moe said, "the kinds of vouchers that are successful are targeted at low-income children, and are limited programs."
"It's unfortunate at this time when a well-designed voucher initiative could win," Mr. Moe added, "he comes up with this, and he does it on his own."
Officials from Mr. Draper's campaign said they were still gathering signatures on a petition to qualify for the November ballot though few contest that they will qualify.
Mr. Draper says his proposal will bring California spending up to the national average per pupil. But the language of the proposition does not guarantee that. Rather, it says it would "permit" the Legislature to amend the law to raise spending, leading some political scientists to say the measure implies that it will accomplish more than it can.
"It's a bait-and-switch," Mr. Cherry said. "It's not about raising it to the national average, it's about installing a voucher system."
Mr. Draper says he has an interest as a "frustrated parent" of four children in private schools and as a businessman who knows that high-tech firms cannot find sufficiently educated engineers and scientists.
He is not the first Silicon Valley entrepreneur to use the initiative process to seek change.
On the March ballot, California voters rejected propositions drafted or sponsored in Silicon Valley that would have banned corporate campaign contributions and allowed votes for "none of the above" in federal and state elections. Officials of high-tech companies also supported an unsuccessful measure that would have lowered the vote to pass a school bond measure to a simple majority from a two-thirds majority.
The campaign finance reform measure was sponsored by Ron Unz, a software millionaire, whose initiative against bilingual education was approved in 1998.
Dan Schnur, a Republican strategist in California and the former Republican political director of TechNet, a bipartisan Silicon Valley lobbying group, said the region's entrepreneurs did not have the patience for the political process.
"Going to subcommittee hearings gets boring really fast," he said. "They figure they can achieve the results through a ballot measure."
Mr. Draper said he planned to create a broader political coalition than the conservatives and religious groups that backed the 1993 proposition, though he has not disclosed any backers. He said he was prepared to raise $40 million, an atypically high amount, but would not say how much he was prepared to spend himself.
Mr. Draper is less the political novice than other referendum-backing valley residents. He has been a prominent fund-raiser for George W. Bush and has hired as his spokesman Barry Hutchison, the former press secretary for Newt Gingrich. Mr. Draper's father, William H. Draper III, ran for Congress in 1969, and in 1981 was appointed chairman of the Export-Import Bank by President Ronald Reagan.
The younger Mr. Draper spent a year on the state board of education, where, he said, he learned that "the system is failing the people."
Whether Californians will embrace such a far-reaching initiative, colleagues of Mr. Draper say he will put enough money and personal influence into the race to force people to think about it. Mr. Draper said he hoped the result would be a legacy that promoted his near religious belief in the free market.
"I will have lived a great life if I can be known for viral marketing and school vouchers," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Timothy Draper sees vouchers as an answer to school problems. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOUCHERS; PRIVATE AND SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; REFERENDUMS ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); STARTUPS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); TUITION FEES (75%); CHILDREN (75%); TEXTBOOKS (75%); REFERENDUMS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); BALLOTS (74%); MULTILINGUALISM (73%); EDUCATION REFORM (70%); STATISTICS (70%); DECRIMINALIZATION (66%); STATISTICAL METHOD (65%); PROPERTY TAX (61%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (61%); 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT; DRAPER, TIMOTHY C TIMOTHY DRAPER (96%); TERRY MOE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



456 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
An Unlikely Champion of a New Trade Pact With China

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
SANDER M. LEVIN hardly fits the classic free-trade profile. He is a liberal Democratic congressman from the Detroit suburbs who proudly owns a 94 percent career voting record with organized labor.
Yet with thousands of protesters in town to demonstrate against the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and what they view as the evils of globalization, Representative Levin will be lucky if he isn't hanged in effigy. 
 The 68-year-old legislator is fine-tuning a plan that could give wavering House Democrats the political cover they want to vote yes on the biggest trade deal in years, an accord with China. If Mr. Levin succeeds, Congress will help hand Beijing a diplomatic coup while opening new markets for American goods but will still keep leverage over China's behavior on human rights, religious tolerance and the environment.
"Members are searching for a way to both keep the heat on China and get the benefits of what we negotiated," Mr. Levin said in his Capitol Hill office, where photographs of Thomas P. O'Neill and Robert F. Kennedy adorn the wall. "We have to strive to combine active engagement with constructive confrontation."
For 20 years Congress has gone through the motions of an annual debate and vote to grant China the same trading privileges that Washington gives almost every other country. Congress has never refused to provide this plum.
But now China is on the verge of joining the World Trade Organization, and as part of a deal negotiated last fall, President Clinton promised to try to lift the annual review and grant Beijing permanent trading status.
The House will vote just before Memorial Day, but the outcome is too close to call. The fate of the agreement rests with about two dozen uncommitted Democrats. Passage in the pro-business Senate is considered certain.
Enter Mr. Levin, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, who is one of the fence-sitters and has long wrestled with trade issues. He voted against the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993 and opposed giving President Clinton fast-track authority to negotiate trade pacts. He has voted both for and against granting China normal trading status.
"I'm an activist internationalist who's worked on both sides: expanded trade and expanded issues of trade," said Mr. Levin, who banged on Japan's doors in the 1980's to pry open its market to American automobiles.
Mr. Levin came away from a 10-day trip to China in January convinced that this trade agreement would influence the future of U.S.-China relations for years to come.
"I came back feeling that changes in China are irreversible, but that the direction is not inevitable," said Mr. Levin, who talked to students, artists and intellectuals about how free trade could open up China's repressive society. "You have to shape globalization."
Mr. Levin sees himself as an organizer and a problem solver, and set out to steer all sides to a middle ground. He has drawn up a plan to monitor China once it joins the W.T.O., and to react swiftly to any violations. The proposal sets up a Congressional-executive branch commission to monitor China's behavior on human rights and trade -- the biggest concern of opponents to giving up the yearly review -- and arms it with a quiver of rewards and penalties.
THE plan would also write into law promises China made to the United States to avoid surges of Chinese exports into the American market.
At first, no one on Capitol Hill paid much attention to Mr. Levin's plan. But by the time lawmakers headed home last week for a recess and the administration anxiously sought to nail down undecided votes, the idea was catching on. Backers say Mr. Levin's plan could swing 10 to 15 votes.
Mr. Levin is not flashy, nor is the low-key, details approach he has used in shopping his plan to about 40 undecided Democrats and Republicans. A Democratic colleague once described him as "a pit bull with manners."
"What Sandy is doing is extremely helpful because he's trying to get some accountability over time," said Representative Tom Allen, a Maine Democrat whose vote is up for grabs.
The China trade wars have catapulted Mr. Levin into the limelight somewhat to the chagrin of his party's leaders. Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader who is strategically neutral on the vote, has been dismissive of Mr. Levin's efforts, choosing to broker his own third way with the White House.
The No. 2 Democrat in the House, David E. Bonior of Michigan, is leading the charge against the deal, and has called Mr. Levin's plan toothless.
In a rare flash of pique, Mr. Levin bristles at that criticism: "It has a lot of teeth in it, and I hope they're sharp and will bite when they need to."
Sander Martin Levin, the grandson of Russian and Polish Jews, was born and raised in Detroit. After earning degrees from the University of Chicago, Columbia University and Harvard Law School, he threw himself into the political arena.
Mr. Levin served in the Michigan State Senate for five years, but after two failed attempts to become governor in the 1970's, he thought he was washed up in politics. He was assistant administrator of the Agency for International Development during the Carter administration.
But in 1982, Michigan's 12th Congressional District opened up, and Mr. Levin has occupied it ever since, forming the lesser-known half of the Levin brother act in Congress. (Mr. Levin's younger brother, Carl, is the senior senator from Michigan and ranking Democrat on the Armed Services Committee.) Mr. Levin and his wife, Vicki, have four grown children.
For Mr. Levin, who worked one summer at a Dodge auto assembly plant, the China pact brings his trade career full circle: "My feeling on trade is that it's more than the humdrum of tariffs. A key part of economic life is rolling up your sleeves on a daily basis to work it out and to avoid the extremes."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Sander M. Levin is a liberal Democrat from Detroit. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 884 (91%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION ROBERT F KENNEDY MEDICAL CENTER (52%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ORGANIZED LABOR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); RELIGION (53%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; LEVIN, SANDER M (REPR) SANDER M LEVIN (92%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



457 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: In Havana, Official Stance And Many Conflicted Views

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: HAVANA, April 16

 BODY:
Elian Gonzalez was not only shipwrecked but kidnapped, in the official point of view here, which was on display in all its revolutionary fervor this weekend at a demonstration by thousands of people.
Despite a downpour, protesters of all ages brandished Cuban flags, danced, sang and spoke, with a sixth grader, Yisel Viamontes, taking on the question on many minds in the United States and to some degree here as well. Would Elian have a better life here or there? 
 "They say he could be a millionaire there," Yisel shouted from the stage at a rally on Saturday night in Las Tunas, 400 miles southeast of here. "Here he will be a millionaire, but with millions much different than over there, with more dignified millions. Here he has millions of brothers and sisters and friends and classmates."
Elian is certainly a cause celebre here -- the 39th anniversary of President Fidel Castro's proclamation of a socialist state perhaps has added to the ferment -- but in everyday conversation people do not speak about the case as much with revolutionary passion as with apparently conflicting emotions.
In the markets, squares and bustling streets of this capital -- its late 1950's cars and colonial buildings a backdrop both dreary and charming -- the latest twists and turns in the case have provoked a range of reaction.
Cubans acknowledge feeling frustration and confusion over the American justice system, puzzled that one judge may rule one way and another judge another way.
"All that has happened in the courts, it's very bureaucratic and hard to understand," said Fernando Suarez, an engineer who, like many professionals here weathering hard economic times, supplements his income by selling books at a market. "Can you explain to me why not even the attorney general could take the boy out of the house in Miami?" Mr. Suarez asked about Attorney General Janet Reno's failure last week to obtain the transfer of Elian from his great-uncle to his father.
Silvia Romay, 35, another vendor who is an engineer, said she could relate to the case because her father left Cuba in 1980 in the Mariel boatlift in which 125,000 Cubans left for Florida in a matter of months. Ms. Romay's father, with whom she has sporadic contact, now lives in New York City but she prefers to stay in Cuba.
"It's hard to be separated from your parent," Ms. Romay said. "The situation is so politicized now. Elian is just an instrument for all sides."
Miguel Hernandez, a construction worker, said the more time the boy spends out of Cuba the more likely he will become a national hero, "although I do not know that he should be."
"He is just a boy who by chance ended up in the United States and, sooner or later, will come back and go on," Mr. Hernandez said.
Cuban officials have said there are no plans to parade the boy when he returns, and few people doubt the case will end with Elian living anywhere but in Cuba. Celebratory rallies welcoming him back, however, seem inevitable, and a huge plaza was recently completed on the grand Malecon, the famous seaside drive in Havana, near the United States Interests Section.
Some may celebrate reluctantly, if at all.
For all the sympathy there may be for Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, there is also understanding of Elian's mother, Elizabet Brotons, who took the boy with her on her fatal boat trip to Florida. Those who say they understood why she took such a drastic move mention the lure of bountiful, higher-paying jobs in the United States and freedom merely 90 miles away.
"The thing is, he made it out and that is where he may belong," said a 24-year-old student who said he had thought about rafting to Florida but feared drowning. "Do you know how many people would like to switch places with him?"
Another man, a musician, referred to the increasingly prominent "Liberan a Elian" -- free Elian -- placards on display around town. " 'Free Elian' has two meanings, you know," the musician said. "There are people here who believe now he is free."
Not everyone here, despite the impression in much of the United States, is clamoring to cobble together a raft and flee. Many here appear to believe that the United States' economic embargo, now 40 years old, will ultimately end, opening the way to better economic times.
Mr. Castro, who has become closely involved in the Elian case, has not addressed the subject in recent days. Mr. Castro was the host of a summit meeting of third world leaders that ended here on Friday night. Today he was concluding talks with President Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria, who extended his stay after the summit meeting.
But the case did not escape the notice of some foreign leaders here for the meeting.
"I will be happy, as will the Venezuelan people, the day that child again breathes Cuban air and sets foot on this heroic Cuban soil," said President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, whose hard-line policies on the rich, affinity for military greens and criticism of the United States have drawn comparisons to Mr. Castro.
State-controlled media outlets like Granma, the official newspaper of the Communist Party, provide a daily dose of full-blown Elian news from the official standpoint. And for two hours every afternoon Cuban television broadcasts round-table discussions on the case.
Said the moderator on Friday evening: "Indignant and combative, we continue the fight for a boy who is all the children of the world." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; HAVANA (CUBA); MIAMI (FLA); CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; CUBAN-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS IMMIGRATION (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); REFUGEES (74%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); RIOTS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (53%); 

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; GONZALEZ, ELIAN; GONZALEZ, JUAN MIGUEL FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



458 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Together Again, Clinton and Gore Raise Millions

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., April 16

 BODY:
The sweet scent of jasmine wafted up the leafy hillsides, the lights of Los Angeles twinkled below, and the cash register ca-CHINGed until it was stuffed with $2.8 million.
The Bill and Al Show reopened on Saturday night, a star-studded gala under the baton of the DreamWorks SKG trio, after being dark for five months. 
 Now that Vice President Al Gore has wrapped up the Democratic nomination for president, his campaign has deemed it safe to start reappearing with President Clinton. Wearing light brown sports jackets and open-necked polo shirts, they ventured out on Saturday night for the first in a series of joint appearances to raise money for the Democratic National Committee. (The show goes to New York on April 24.)
Mr. Gore is relying on the successes of the Clinton administration to sweep him into office. As he told his audience here, the nation's prosperity is "the wind at my back."
But he has also been campaigning at a slight remove from the impeached president.
And on Saturday night, Mr. Gore still seemed not have resolved his feelings toward Mr. Clinton.
On the slate patio of the fortresslike Greystone manor, with amber lanterns slung from overhanging branches and celebrities like Jimmy Smits, Whoopi Goldberg, Kevin Spacey, Antonio Banderas, Melanie Griffith and Jay Leno listening, an odd ambivalence toward the president emerged in Mr. Gore's remarks. In trying to praise Mr. Clinton, Mr. Gore seemed to give him the back of his hand.
For example, he had wanted to say that the president was a man of big ideas. But he introduced that thought this way: "Of all the criticisms of President Clinton that I've heard, the one that rings the most hollow is that he has pushed small ideas, little proposals."
Later, he said that the job of president was so difficult, Mr. Clinton had nearly snapped.
"Of all the good things I could say about President Clinton -- I could tell you about the many, many times when I have seen him, especially in the early years, nearly buckle under the pressure of his office but never do so," Mr. Gore said. He paused here at length, as if surprised by what he had just said and wondering how to smooth it over.
"As I say this," he began anew, "I don't want to pretend that I know how heavy his burdens have been because there is no other position like the one that he has held on our behalf. But I've been close enough to it to see firsthand that those burdens are very heavy."
The audience was full of people infatuated with Mr. Clinton, and they seemed relieved when their man took the stage. He was casual and charming and had them laughing almost immediately.
The president played off a reference that Mr. Gore had made in which he disparaged one of Hollywood's biggest flops, the $35-million 1986 disaster "Howard the Duck." Saying that the news media wereralways "obsessively" seeking differences between Mr. Gore and Mr. Clinton, Mr. Clinton added: "I liked 'Howard the Duck,' " bringing chuckles from the audience.
Jokes aside, the buzz was whether Mr. Gore could live up to the Hollywood-friendly standards set by Mr. Clinton, a natural performer and movie fan. (As one production executive said of Mr. Clinton: "He is into the creative process.")
So far, Mr. Gore is doing just fine in the cash department. There was an assumption that the vice president, because of his high-tech proclivities and because DreamWorks is leaving the money-raising field, might find Silicon Valley more lucrative. And on Friday night, he raised an eye-popping $2.6 million from 70 venture capitalists at the Silicon Valley home of Joel Hyatt, a Democratic fund-raiser and successful entrepreneur.
But Saturday night's Hollywood haul was $2.8 million from 100 people who paid at least $25,000 a couple -- more than at any recent event for Mr. Clinton.
And in California, Mr. Gore appears ahead of Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, who is presumed to be the Republican nominee. The latest Field survey put Mr. Gore 10 points ahead, prompting speculation that Mr. Bush may not be able to wage a serious contest here.
That is essential in raising money. A top Democratic fund-raiser put it this way: "You have a tough act to follow with Clinton. But poll numbers help a lot. When polls show you're going to win, it's easier."
One of the biggest problems for Mr. Gore, and other Democrats, is that the DreamWorks trio of Steven Spielberg, David Geffen and Jeffrey Katzenberg, longtime Clinton promoters and experts at extracting millions from their friends in the entertainment industry, plan to retreat from the fund-raising when Mr. Clinton leaves office.
And Mr. Gore is just not as natural a guest here as Mr. Clinton. While Mr. Gore has visited California 66 times since he became vice president seven years ago, Mr. Clinton seems more at home here. And there is talk that he will spend much of his post-presidency in California.
"Clinton has a bond here, and Gore has just never worked California the way he has," one insider said. "There is no question that Gore can never get to the level Clinton has here among the two or three thousand people in the fund-raising world."
Even Mr. Clinton, Mr. Gore's biggest promoter, seemed worried that donors here might be lulled into complacency and flag in their commitment to getting Mr. Gore elected.
"When you think it doesn't matter, when you get tired, when you wish somebody wouldn't call you again between now and November," the president told them, remember that the Republicans ended the economic expansion of the 1960's. "Take a deep breath and bear down," he implored them.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Gore and President Clinton raised $2.8 million at a fund-raiser in Hollywood on Saturday night. The hosts of the event were the executives of DreamWorks, including David Geffen, center. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS SKG DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (72%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREAMWORKS SKG DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOLLYWOOD (CALIF); UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES CELEBRITIES (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (93%); DAVID GEFFEN (56%); JAY LENO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



459 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1906 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Gives Broad Plans For Health And Schools

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 16

 BODY:
Jon S. Corzine may be running only for the United States Senate, but his proposals sound as sweeping as any president's since Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society.
He envisions a national health care system, with insurance for everyone. A national program of long-term care for the aged and infirm. And enough new federal education spending to cover college tuition for every high school graduate with a B average or better, and preschool for every toddler. 
 Even a cursory look at this breathtakingly expansive platform raises some obvious questions: How much would it cost? Where will the money come from? And are New Jersey voters, historically moderate, ready for a candidate who seems so much like a throwback to the 1960's?
Mr. Corzine, the former co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company, says he is running "because it's time to get bold things done." In an era when fiscal conservatism is almost synonymous with patriotism, he has outlined programs that could cost hundreds of billions of dollars.
He has said much less about how he would pay for them.
His candidacy rests on two propositions: that a society awash in prosperity, its confidence in government buoyed by rising surpluses, should be ready to spend liberally to solve its most vexing social problems; and that the ideal guardian of the nation's purse strings is someone like him -- a Wall Street-hardened financier who has spent his career doing deals in dollar amounts of 9 and 10 digits.
Just four years after President Clinton, a Democrat, declared that "the era of big government is over," Mr. Corzine is perhaps the only prominent Democrat in America arguing forcefully for a reversal of the last two decades' steady shift in power from the federal government to the states.
"There's a generation of Democrats that is understandably afraid to get out on any tree limb at all," said Susan Estrich, who managed Michael S. Dukakis's 1988 presidential campaign and now is advising Mr. Corzine. "He isn't. He also brings the credibility, as a businessman, to say, 'We can do this, and your money will be well spent.' "
Mr. Corzine's stands on social issues, meanwhile, make his fiscal plans seem middle of the road. He supports allowing gays to marry legally and to serve openly in the military. He favors greater curbs on firearms than even the advocacy group Handgun Control. He opposes the death penalty and any restrictions on abortion rights, even for late-term procedures. And he supports affirmative action, including set-asides for minority contractors.
Not surprisingly, his opponent in the Democratic primary, former Gov. Jim Florio, is dying to meet Mr. Corzine head-on in a debate. "The people of this state do not want extremes," Mr. Florio said. "They do not want someone who's going to go out there promising them the moon."
But Mr. Corzine, 53, insists that more voters will be attracted by his authenticity than repelled by his positions. "Why should someone run for political office if they're only going to shape their views to poll-driven responses?" he said in one of two recent interviews. "I actually think that's why people are frustrated with politics in America. They know politicians tell them what they want to hear to get elected. I have to have a purpose in this exercise."
Mr. Corzine's purpose in running for Senate begins with the so-called social safety net. He endorses President Clinton's plan to allow investment of up to 15 percent of the Social Security trust fund in the stock market instead of only in safer, but possibly less lucrative, government securities. He supports setting aside $680 billion from future federal surpluses to cover rising Medicare costs.
"I want to take on getting these safety-net programs properly structured in a businesslike fashion," he said. "These things are vital. And if we don't pay attention to the details of how they are organized, our society's going to suffer."
It is on health care, however, that Mr. Corzine has focused the most attention in his speeches and television commercials. Unlike Vice President Al Gore, who wants to extend health care to the uninsured in increments, he speaks of "universal health care coverage" for all 44 million uninsured Americans as something that can and should be done immediately.
Like Hillary Rodham Clinton's ill-fated 1993 national health care plan, Mr. Corzine's proposal relies on employer mandates. All companies would be required to offer insurance to their workers, who would have to bear some of the cost themselves through premiums. Smaller businesses would join regional insurance pools to negotiate for discounts. The federal government would reimburse businesses with fewer than 200 workers for the costs through subsidies under a sliding scale.
But while Mr. Corzine continues to speak in universal terms, he leaves himself room to retreat to a half-measure. Pressed for weeks to detail his approach and its costs, he released late on Friday a one-page financial summary of two options. It stated that he favored making health insurance a matter of individual choice, and projected that half of America's uninsured would choose to remain uninsured, limiting the government's costs to $21 billion. To cover everyone, it said, would cost the government $42 billion and employers $36 billion more than they already spend.
Mr. Corzine said that more than half the uninsured might well choose to enroll up front, "depending on how aggressively the system markets itself."
"Once it is affordable," he added, "people will more willingly volunteer to take up the opportunity. We could ultimately move to some kind of requirement, but I don't think we should move there on the first step."
Still, Mr. Corzine's heart clearly is in truly universal health coverage. At a recent forum before nurses and other health care professionals, he was asked if he supported a single-payer system. He carefully avoided answering (though he later told a reporter that he opposed it). "Running around as a newcomer to politics and talking about what is generally labeled socialized medicine would probably be the kiss of death," he told the audience.
Mr. Corzine said he was proudest of his proposals for long-term care, an issue that has few champions in the national debate. "This is something that when I get there, I will be an advocate for the next 10 years, till we get something done," he said. "I think I can make a deal out of this, because I think it's something our society needs."
He supports Mr. Clinton's latest proposal for a $3,000 tax credit for patients or their caregivers, though he says it should be refundable and still dismisses it in the next breath as too little. "It's nuts," he said. "That's one month of assisted living."
As a more meaningful step, Mr. Corzine says he admires programs begun by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation in New York, Connecticut, California and other states that were intended to entice people to buy their own long-term care insurance. Those pilot programs, which under existing federal law cannot be expanded to other states, assure participants that they will not need to exhaust all their assets before qualifying for Medicaid in old age.
But reviews have been mixed. "Policy analysts like it a lot, but people don't like these policies," said Joshua M. Wiener, an expert on long-term care at the Urban Institute in Washington. "Insurance agents don't like to sell them, either. It's opposite the way they normally sell. They usually say, 'Buy this product and you'll never go on that horrible Medicaid.' Now, they're saying, 'Buy this and, should you use up your benefits, we'll get you on Medicaid faster.' "
Ultimately, Mr. Corzine said he believed that a national long-term care system should be folded into Medicare or a Social Security-like program. Mr. Wiener said that this could cost $70 billion or more.
Mr. Corzine said the tab should be much less, because individuals and employers would both contribute, but he could not elaborate. "I'm very admitting that it's the formative stage, but I think we've got to encourage our society," he said.
He said that he deliberately set his sights higher than his expectations but that he was not unrealistic. But his grand plans, outlined on his Web site at www.votecorzine.org, do come at a price.
In education, for example, Mr. Corzine said he would raise spending by $30 billion to cover initiatives for preschool and kindergarten through the 12th grade. Beyond that, he wants to copy a scholarship program in Georgia, which pays for two years of tuition at a state college for any student who maintains an average of B or better. If students qualify for a national scholarship program at the same rate they do in Georgia, the cost could reach $16 billion a year.
Mr. Corzine also favors a fully refundable college tuition tax credit for low-income families. That would cost more than $9 billion after three years, according to the Progressive Policy Institute in Washington. All told, his education programs alone could add $55 billion to the nation's annual budget, roughly five times what Mr. Gore has proposed.
Mr. Corzine, who talks of "holistic" solutions and speaks admiringly of the welfare states in Scandinavia and elsewhere in Europe, says he believes in an "activist" government. But like any Democrat who survived the Reagan years, he refuses to accept the "liberal" label.
"I don't think working to try to take some of the pressure off the property tax system by having the federal government take on a greater element of responsibility in education, particularly in our more troubled schools -- it's not a liberal or conservative issue," he said. "It's a responsible effort to try to break some of the cycles of poverty and human degradation we've got going on.
"People are not going to find my support for closing corporate tax credits and tax loopholes that have been won by special interests as a liberal point of view," he continued. "I think they're just going to find it a responsible point of view."
Mr. Florio, the combative former governor, says Mr. Corzine's proposals are irresponsible or naive. He adds that Mr. Corzine rarely mentions what they will cost.
"At the very beginning, when he was out there, I chastised him gently, saying, 'You've got to be specific,' " Mr. Florio said of his opponent. "Then he came forward with this set of specifics that are unaccounted for in terms of the costs, and that's the opposite extreme. It's irresponsible to say, 'I'm for everyone having a good life, elect me.' Or on the other side, 'I'm for everybody having 17 Cadillacs in their driveway,' without saying how they're going to pay for them."
But while Mr. Corzine's Web site does omit any bottom-line dollar figures, Mr. Corzine asserted that his proposals could all be paid for with the $750 billion in non-Social Security surpluses projected by the federal government over the next 10 years. Where necessary, he said, senators could always cut pork-barrel spending. And in an economic downturn, he would favor deficit spending, he said.
"I don't think this is a budget-busting set of proposals," Mr. Corzine said. "And that's before the fact of whether I can get these implemented. I'm not expecting that everybody's just going to accede to everything that I've proposed. My whole point is, if you don't have an advocate for these kinds of positions, they'll never happen."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jon S. Corzine (pg. B1)
 
Chart: "KEEPING TRACK -- The Corzine Platform: A Greater Society"
 
Cost estimates for health care are Mr. Corzine's; others are based on expert analysis and comparable proposals.
 
UNIVERSAL HEALTH CARE: $21 BILLION TO $42 BILLION
Mr. Corzine favors requiring employers to offer insurance but letting individuals decide whether to participate. He projects that half the nation's uninsured would voluntarily remain uninsured, limiting the government's cost to $21 billion out of $44 billion, the rest to be paid by employers and workers through premiums. To cover all the uninsured would cost the federal government $42 billion out of a $90 billion total.
 
For businesses with fewer than 200 workers, the federal government would subsidize employer premiums on a sliding scale. For the self-employed, premiums would be fully deductible.
 
UNIVERSAL LONG-TERM CARE: $10 BILLION TO $70 BILLION
Expand Medicare to cover America's long-term care needs. Price: $70 billion.
 
As a short-term step, approve President Clinton's $3,000 tax credit for patients or caretaking family members, but make it fully refundable. Price: $10 billion.
 
As an intermediate step, expand pilot programs in a few states where people can protect their assets from future Medicaid spend-downs by buying private long-term care insurance through state-sponsored plans.
 
UNIVERSAL QUALITY PUBLIC EDUCATION: $55 BILLION
Increase federal aid for preschool, primary and secondary schools. Price: $30 billion.
 
Two years of free tuition at public colleges for students with a B average or better. Price: $16 billion.
 
Refundable tuition tax credit of up to $2,500 for low-income families. Price: $9 billion.
 
(Sources: Corzine 2000; Georgia Student Finance Commission; National Center for Education Statistics; Progressive Policy Institute; Urban Institute; White House budget proposal for 2001.)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGED; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TUITION; HEALTH INSURANCE; EDUCATION (PRE-SCHOOL) HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (69%); GUN CONTROL (63%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (62%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (62%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (62%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M; CORZINE, JON S JON CORZINE (94%); BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



460 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Miami Area's Mayors Ride a Volatile Political Wave

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 16

 BODY:
What excites Miami's Cuban-Americans about Elian Gonzalez is that his case presents the best opportunity in decades, since the failed Bay of Pigs invasion in 1961, to humiliate Fidel Castro. But domestic conflicts are stirring this pot, too, and threatening Miami and its two top politicians with their own Bay of Pigs.
Alex Penelas, 38, a Democrat, was elected mayor of Miami-Dade County four years ago with the huge support of Cuban-Americans, who normally vote Republican, as well as the support of many blacks and non-Hispanic whites. Once perceived as a future governor or senator, Mr. Penelas faces a re-election race in the fall against a Republican Cuban-American, Miguel Diaz de la Portilla, a county commissioner who is more conservative than than he. 
 Joseph Carollo, 45, a Republican, was elected mayor of the city of Miami three years ago. In a city where Cuban-Americans make up the majority of voters, he survived an effort by the city commission to oust him in a special election last year that the courts overruled. Accused of taking his Cuban-American support for granted, Mr. Carollo faces a challenge next year from the former mayor, Xavier Suarez, who is also a Republican and a Cuban-American.
In local politics, "Fidel Castro is not even an issue," said Prof. Kenneth W. Goodman, director of the ethics program at the University of Miami. Alberto Duran, a board member of the Cuban Committee for Democracy, which favors Elian's return to his father, said, "This is a political struggle, a show of political muscle more than a stance against Castro."
"They want to prove they can keep this child here," Mr. Duran said. "Penelas is in a very tough political race, so he's taking extreme stands to get the Cuban-American vote, and Carollo is going to have a tough race in November next year."
The turning point in both mayors' role in the dispute came late last month when Mr. Penelas, with Mr. Carollo beside him, revived the 37-year-old image of George Wallace, Alabama's segregationist governor, as they stood on the steps of the federal courthouse here to lash out at federal law and its enforcers.
Mayor Penelas, until then a man known as a consensus-building moderate, declared that he would not let the Miami police help federal agents move Elian from his temporary home and would blame President Clinton and Attorney General Janet Reno for any violence and civil disorder that might occur. He and Mayor Carollo, who is known as a firebrand, have since promised to maintain order. But they will not let their police forces join federal marshals in moving Elian.
Analysts say the mayors have alienated all other ethnic groups, sullied their images as emerging leaders of their national political parties and further diminished the stature of a turbulent city that often ranks near the top of the cities with the highest murder rates and at the bottom of the cities that banks like to lend to. At moments in the latest twists of the Elian saga, analysts say, the mayors have let emotions trump federal law.
"What they both have at stake," said Dario Marino, a pollster and an associate professor of political science at Florida International University here, "is the good name of Miami and the ability to attract business. No one in the business elite wants civil disobedience." But as passions over Elian have begun to boil over, Mr. Marino said, "their first priority is not to alienate their Cuban-American base. If they alienate their Cuban base, they're both gone."
Hugh Gladwin, director of the Institute for Public Opinion Research at F.I.U., said: "The first level of political impact, until it's resolved and people start reflecting on it, is this huge polarization. People are going to remember." Because of the mayors' "pandering to popular sentiment," said Mayor Neisen O. Kasdin of Miami Beach, "Miami has taken it on the chin. It's not going to stop Miami's emergence as the capital of the Americas. But this is a setback for two or three years."
The two mayors have impeccable Cuban and American political credentials. Mayor Penelas's father, a labor organizer in Cuba, was in a Cuban prison facing a death sentence when he escaped with his family to Florida, where Alex was born. Joseph Carollo came at the age of 5 or 6, one of nearly 14,000 Pedro Pan children whose parents dispatched them to the United States and then followed months later.
The two soaked up American culture and education and began careers in politics. Mr. Penelas was elected to the Hialeah City Council at 25. Mr. Carollo, briefly a Democrat and a police officer, was elected a Miami city commissioner at 24. Both dress in the crisp suits and tightly knotted ties favored by members of the board of a chamber of commerce.
Early in the Elian case, after his rescue at sea in November, the mayors stood on the fringe of the custody debate while their Cuban-American constituents weighed the issues. In interviews then, the views expressed covered the spectrum of grays, including allowing Elian's father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, custody if he came Miami to collect him and bowing to federal court rulings.
But as the community's views coalesced, to the point now where many support Lazaro Gonzalez's defiance of a federal order to release Elian to his father, the mayors have declined to intervene.
In a poll this month that stunned analysts here, The Miami Herald found an acutely polarized city, with 83 percent of Miami-Dade County's Cuban-Americans supporting efforts to keep Elian in the United States and 55 percent of other Hispanics agreeing, but 92 percent of African-Americans and 72 percent of non-Hispanic whites supporting his return to Cuba.
With a Cuban majority in the city and a plurality in the county, said Lisandro Perez, director of the Cuban Research Institute at F.I.U., "Carollo and Penelas want to make sure they're in the front of this movement."
The 4,000 or 5,000 people who demonstrate in front of Lazaro Gonzalez's home may represent only a fraction of the county's 743,000 Cuban-Americans in a total population of 2.1 million, Mr. Perez said, but when things get emotional, the mayors will have to take up the banner or get trampled by others carrying it. "The fact that this is foreign policy is academic," Mr. Perez said. "They're doing what their constituency wants them to do."
In responding to the passions of a single constituency, the mayors have alienated blacks and non-Hispanic whites. Marvin Dunn, a black who is the chairman of the psychology department at F.I.U. and the author of a book about the black experience in Miami in the 20th century, said the Miami Herald poll showing that 92 percent of blacks want Elian repatriated was stunning.
"We see far too many fathers abandoning their children," Mr. Dunn said. "When we see a dad stand up for his son, that's impressive." That such views are ignored, he said "is for me, for a lot of African-Americans, reprehensible. We feel we are a less important part of the community."
That may not hurt Mayor Carollo because of the city's Cuban-American majority. "But Penelas has more of a problem," Mr. Dunn said. James W. Corey, a political scientist at the University of Miami and a veteran of the Bay of Pigs, said, "I would say strategically, he's put himself in a precarious position."
The Cuban-Americans, said Susan MacManus, a professor of political science at the University of South Florida in Tampa, "forced him to go so far over to the right that it makes it difficult for him to win."
The only winners, she said, are the aging leaders of the Cuban exile community, who had been losing influence. The Elian affair, she said, "has galvanized them and emboldened them."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Joseph Carollo of Miami, left, and Mayor Alex Penelas of Miami-Dade County at a prayer service for Elian Gonzalez. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN CUBAN-AMERICAN (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; MIAMI (FLA); MIAMI-DADE COUNTY (FLA); UNITED STATES (99%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CUBAN-AMERICANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (84%); IMMIGRATION (79%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); REFUGEES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (76%); COUNTIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TRENDS (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); MARSHALS (71%); ETHICS (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); ETHNICITY (50%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T; GONZALEZ, JUAN MIGUEL; GONZALEZ, ELIAN; CAROLLO, JOSEPH (MAYOR); PENELAS, ALEX (MAYOR) FIDEL CASTRO (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



461 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Points to Big Accomplishment: It Met as Scheduled

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16

 BODY:
Delegates looked bleary-eyed after their predawn wake-up calls, and a handful arrived several hours late. But the member nations of the International Monetary Fund achieved a major breakthrough today: They met.
That was perhaps the one definitive accomplishment the world finance ministers could announce after a full day of meetings to discuss global financial stability and to set the course for the fund. After globalization-wary protesters briefly shut down world trade talks in Seattle last year and threatened to do the same to finance ministers gathered in Washington today, the simple fact of the meeting was presented as a triumph. 
 "The meeting went on as normal," announced Gordon Brown, Britain's chancellor of the exchequer and the chairman of the fund's steering committee. "It started on time, and it was completed in a normal way."
That included a relaxed lunch in the I.M.F.'s soaring marble and glass atrium, where formally attired waiters served jumbo shrimp and offered a selection of red and white wines.
The shouts of protesters could not be heard inside the earth-tone conference rooms of the fund's downtown Washington headquarters. But participants said the varied complaints of the fund's many critics in Congress, in academia and on the streets resonated in many of the policy proposals discussed during the sessions, including those for streamlined lending procedures and expedited debt relief for poor countries.
A carefully worded communique at the end of the day gave credit to outside critics for stoking a public debate about the future of the fund. And many of the finance ministers stressed that they had heard the protesters' messages.
"The world is going through a period of profound change, and that has made for debate here and some debate outside," said Paul Martin, Canada's finance minister. "Ultimately our aims are the same." He added that both parties want to figure out how best to deal with poverty.
There appeared to be modest progress on a range of issues confronting the fund, some of which are high on the agenda of outside critics. The finance ministers asked the fund's managers to continue a review of their lending programs with an eye to eliminating some. The fund was also told to review whether to use variable pricing on some loan programs so as to discourage repeated, long-term borrowing. The United States favors those proposals.
But some poor and middle-income nations expressed strong reservations about proposals that would make it more difficult for them to obtain loans or force them to pay the loans back faster. Their opposition highlighted how difficult it is to make quick changes at the fund, which has 182-member nations, though its board is in effect controlled by the United States and Europe.
"We find some of these proposals unacceptable and have serious concerns about them," said German Suarez, who heads a coalition of developing countries known as the Group of 24. He was referring primarily to a proposal put forward by a Congressional commission that studied ways of changing the I.M.F. and the World Bank, its sister lending agency.
The finance ministers' communique ruled out the possibility of completely eliminating the fund's long-term lending programs and expressed strong support for the fund's involvement in working to reduce poverty. The Congressional panel, known as the Meltzer Commission, had urged that the fund cease both types of lending.
On debt relief, finance ministers reiterated their longstanding pledge to free the world's poorest countries, including many in Africa, of crushing foreign-debt burdens. One problem is that some legislatures around the world, most notably Congress, so far have not allotted all the necessary funds to allow the fund and the World Bank to forgive past loans.
Jubilee 2000, a religious coalition, has called for stepping up the effort and for total forgiveness of debt owed by the world's 40 poorest nations.
Participants in the discussions today said the ministers had also considered proposals that would make it easier for the poorest countries to qualify for debt relief and to put the plans into effect faster once they do.
Of 27 nations considered under a debt-relief program approved in Cologne, Germany, last summer, only five have begun a qualification process and just one, Uganda, has actually had some debt forgiven. Many others have faced difficulties in proving to the fund and the bank that they have the good governance and adequate programs to meet the criteria for debt forgiveness.
Most finance ministers, traveling in police-escorted bus convoys, had little trouble winding their way through barricades to the fund's headquarters. Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, the top-ranking American official at the meetings, was whisked by limousine from his office a few blocks away.
But the protests made life difficult for some officials. The Japanese delegation, fearing a tardy arrival, left its quarters at the Madison Hotel a few blocks from the I.M.F. at 4:30 a.m., arriving a short time later and waiting more than three hours for the start of the formal proceedings, a Japanese official said.
The French finance minsiter, Laurent Fabius, who had told I.M.F. and World Bank staff members that he wanted to conduct a dialogue with demonstrators during his stay, got full exposure. Protesters surrounded his limousine just before the 8 a.m. start of the morning session, forcing him to turn back. He waited for nearly six hours at a luxury hotel for bus transport through the barricades, arriving just at the conclusion of lunch. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (79%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); RIOTS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH GORDON BROWN (54%); PAUL MARTIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



462 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1828 words

HEADLINE: Against All Odds, a Complicated Casino Proposal Advances

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

DATELINE: MONTICELLO, N.Y.

 BODY:
Robert A. Berman stalked across the cavernous grandstand at Monticello Raceway on a recent afternoon just as the trotters breezed across the finish line to the desultory cheers of two dozen bettors and a couple of children scattered among the box seats.
He winced when the tote board showed that a mere $6,223 had been bet on the race, including the off-track action. It had hardly been worth the effort. 
 With the scruffy racetrack, and the empty parking lot, it was hard to picture the tens of thousands of vacationers who once flocked here from borscht belt hotels. But it is here that Mr. Berman wants to build a $500 million casino for the St. Regis Mohawk tribe, a project that he says will bring prosperity back to the Catskills and a windfall to him and his partners.
And on April 7, after six years of public hearings, environmental reviews, negotiations and nearly $30 million, he finally won the federal Interior Department's approval for his plan to donate 30 acres to the Mohawks for the casino. He and his partners would build and operate it under a management contract with the tribe.
"There's nothing here," said Mr. Berman, who grew up here and heads an investment group that owns the track. "This area has been devastated. The casino would create thousands of good-paying jobs. It'll drive demand for hotels and the people who work there will spend money in the community."
But even with the victory in Washington -- one that many thought would never happen -- Mr. Berman still feels embattled.
The casino venture still needs the approval of Gov. George E. Pataki, whose longstanding support for the project is now open to question, and possibly the State Legislature. Although Mr. Berman's partners include top Republican campaign contributors with close ties to the state's top economic development official, Charles A. Gargano, the battle in Albany will be joined by a combative group of gambling opponents, Atlantic City casino interests, unions and real estate developers.
To add to the intrigue, casino proponents and tribal officials say that a new force has sought to curry favor with the Mohawk tribe in an effort to gain control of the casino, or kill it: Arthur Goldberg, president of Park Place Entertainment, the largest gambling operator in the country, and his adviser, Alfonse M. D'Amato, the former senator.
"The casino could revive an historic area," Mr. Berman said. "We hope the governor will judge this project on the merits and ignore all the political noise in the background."
Mr. Berman's friends and critics in Sullivan County described him as a "wheeler dealer" who was always trying to get some project going in the county, even after business took him to New York and across the country.
"He was always very enterprising," said Ira Jay Cohen, the Sullivan County attorney. "Very inventive. I wasn't surprised years later when he surfaced as the head of this casino venture. He was always willing to take a chance."
The son of a local contractor, Mr. Berman, 40, was 19 when he opened the Bananas nightclub in nearby Woodridge at one of the county's many shuttered hotels. In 1981 and 1982, he ran Music Mountain, a successful concert series that included the Allman Brothers Band and the Grateful Dead at Avon Lodge, a former hotel owned by his girlfriend's family.
In 1987, he and four partners revived a twice-failed ski resort in Sullivan County called Davos. The county's resort industry had foundered badly in the competition with Atlantic City and relatively inexpensive air fares to Europe. But there was a boomlet in second-home construction. Mr. Berman's group expanded the ski trails and built a clubhouse, a lodge and hundreds of condominiums, town houses and single-family homes.
The recession in the early 1990's, however, brought construction to a halt, and the project's lender pushed Davos into bankruptcy court, leaving some residents and local contractors angry with Mr. Berman over unfulfilled promises. Mr. Berman eventually wrested back control of the property.
For much of the 1990's, Mr. Berman was involved with Watermark Investments, a holding company based in Manhattan that invested in real estate projects, an Internet lottery and hotel renovations. He said he stepped down from those ventures last month to concentrate on the casino.
The origins of that project date back to 1994, when the State Legislature once again did not approve casino gambling in New York. Mr. Berman told Cliff Ehrlich, whose family had owned the Pines hotel and was an advocate of gambling as a way to revive the county's beleaguered economy, that he had a way to get around the state's prohibition.
Mr. Berman, who had worked with the Coeur d'Alene tribe in Idaho on an Internet lottery venture, said that a seldom-used provision of federal law allowed for the creation of a casino on land donated in trust for a tribe. The trust would establish a tax-free sovereign Indian territory outside tribal lands expressly for a casino.
Mr. Berman and Mr. Ehrlich bought the failing racetrack in Monticello and approached the Oneidas, one of only two tribes in New York that had a gambling contract with the state and the wherewithal to both finance and operate a casino. When a deal with the Oneidas fell apart in 1995, Mr. Berman and Mr. Ehrlich struck an alliance with the St. Regis Mohawks, whose reservation is on the Canadian border, 350 miles north of Monticello. But the Mohawks could not finance or operate the casino.
For financial support, Mr. Berman enlisted an old friend, Joseph Bernstein, a developer based in New York City who had gained notoriety in the 1980's when he secretly bought skyscrapers in Manhattan on behalf of President Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines.
Mr. Berman also picked up another partner, Alpha Hospitality, a gambling company that already had a deal with the Mohawks to run an off-reservation casino. Alpha was run by Stanley S. Tollman, a New York businessman who owned a number of hotels. Its directors and major stockholders included Mr. Gargano, who was appointed chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation in 1995. Mr. Gargano's connections to Alpha, whose casino project was being reviewed by the state, set off a storm of protest in the Legislature. He ultimately resigned from Alpha and sold his stock, although he and Mr. Tollman remain good friends.
"Mr. Gargano divested his holdings many years ago so there wouldn't be any reason to question anything," said Thomas Aro, executive vice president of Alpha. "But you don't resign your friendships."
Mr. Berman added: "Nobody is doing anybody any favors on this deal."
But Mr. Tollman may have other problems that could reflect poorly on Alpha and the contract with the Mohawks. The United States attorney in Manhattan is investigating his Tollman-Hundley Hotels company, which bought the Days Inn chain in 1989 in a highly leveraged $765 million deal. Less than two years later, Days Inn filed for bankruptcy protection.
Prosecutors recently obtained indictments of a former company executive, Howard Zukerman, on charges of tax evasion. In a declaration filed in that case, an assistant U.S. attorney, Stanley J. Okula Jr., stated that he was investigating Mr. Tollman's friend and former partner, Monty Drew Hundley, and three other unnamed executives at Tollman-Hundley in connection with "a massive scheme to defraud certain financial institutions."
Mr. Hundley was a founder of both the hotel company and Alpha. Mr. Tollman did not return numerous telephone calls requesting comment and Larry Horn, a lawyer for Mr. Hundley, declined to comment.
"It has nothing to do with Alpha," Mr. Aro said. "I have no knowledge of it."
In any event, the group drew up plans for the casino over the last five years and met with county legislators and federal regulators. Mr. Berman promised to expand the track when the casino was built. The two-story gambling and entertainment complex, which would include 200 gambling tables, a 12,000-square-foot poker room, a bingo room and 3,000 video lottery terminals, is expected to attract 9 million visitors a year and generate 5,300 people. In a series of negotiations, the tribe has agreed to give the county $5 million a year and to provide the state with up to 25 percent of the gross revenues from electronic gambling machines.
After 30 years of talk about gambling in the Catskills, few people thought the Monticello casino would ever materialize. But last year, David Flaum and Louis R. Cappelli, developers who are also heavy Republican campaign contributors, began buying property for resorts the likes of which had not been seen in Sullivan County. Gambling foes and Atlantic City casino owners like Donald J. Trump opposed the project in advertisements attacking Mr. Pataki as a pro-gambling politician.
Mr. Pataki has long said that Indian casinos could be an economic boon in traditional resort areas like the Catskills and western New York. He has also maintained that he has the power to approve Indian casino proposals. But last month, he filed a bill that would require the State Legislature to approve Indian gambling operations, a proposal that casino advocates believe would mean almost certain doom. Since then, the Pataki administration has refused to say whether the bill covers the Mohawks, a tribe that already has a gambling compact with the state.
"It's the last best hope for the area," said United States Senator Charles E. Schumer, who had lobbied the federal government on behalf of the casino.
A top state official said in a recent interview that the Monticello casino would be reviewed in the context of the state's overall relations with the tribe. In a meeting last Thursday, state officials made a settlement offer concerning the Mohawks' land claims. The offer got a favorable reception, according to one person who was briefed on the talks.
That gave casino proponents hope. But they must still get their management contract with the Mohawks approved by the National Indian Gaming Commission.
In an apparent break with the Atlantic City casino owners, Mr. Goldberg of Park Place Entertainment has been negotiating for six months to take over management of the Mohawks' small, money-losing casino in Hogansburg, N.Y., according to tribal officials, the current casino operator and others. And last week, he made overtures to Alpha concerning the proposed Monticello casino.
It is this kind of maneuvering that gives Mr. Berman headaches. He fears that Park Place does not truly want a casino in Monticello that could take business away from Atlantic City.
"I don't believe for a minute that they want a casino in Monticello," he said. "They've got too big a stake in Atlantic City.
"This thing rests on Pataki's shoulders," Mr. Berman added. "He has the power with a stroke of the pen to say yes to thousands of jobs and millions of dollars in revenue that now flows out of the state."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert A. Berman, one man behind a proposed Catskill casino. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PPE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (71%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: INTERIOR DEPARTMENT PARK PLACE ENTERTAINMENT CORP (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERIOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CATSKILLS (NYS AREA); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (71%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; INDIANS, AMERICAN; CASINOS; MOHAWK INDIANS CASINOS (92%); GAMING (90%); APPROVALS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); REAL ESTATE (65%); HISTORIC SITES (60%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; BERMAN, ROBERT ROBERT A BERMAN (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



463 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Protests Clog Washington As Financial Leaders Meet
Thousands of protesters against globalization swarmed through Washington, clashing briefly a few times with the police who formed a virtual wall around world financial leaders, who met as scheduled. At least 1,500 police sealed off what grew to a 50-square-block area around the buildings housing the World Bank and the I.M.F. A1
 
Blame in Embassy Bombing
An investigation of the United States' bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade last year provided a detailed account of a broader set of missteps than the United States or NATO have acknowledged and a wider circle of blame than the government's explanation of a simple error of judgment by a few people at the C.I.A. A1 

Urgency to Ethiopia Relief
In the last few days the world's rich nations have pledged what experts say should be enough food to stave off the starvation of at least eight million Ethiopians who face a food shortage. But much could still go wrong and relief officials are urging a worldwide effort to keep Ethiopia flooded with food. A3
 
Defiant Zimbabwe Leader
President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, overruling his deputy, said his government would not ask black squatters to leave hundreds of white-owned farms despite violence over the weekend that left three dead. The high court ordered the police last week to evict the squatters if they would not go peacefully. A3
 
Barak Proposal to Palestinians
Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel indicated that he might recognize a Palestinian state and a "down payment" on a future transfer of land if Israel and the Palestinians reached a "framework" final peace agreement by the end of May. A6
 
Taiwan Arms Recommendation
The Pentagon has recommended deferring for at least a year a decision on Taiwan's request to purchase four sophisticated American destroyers, as well as diesel submarines and surveillance aircraft, a senior defense official said. The Pentagon's recommendation would postpone consideration of a request by Taiwan that had caused serious diplomatic strains between the United States and China, the official said. A9
 
NATIONAL A12-17
 
School Drug Test Policy Also a Constitutional Test
A parent's fight against a school board policy in Lockney, Tex., requiring that all junior and senior high school students take a mandatory drug test has made the town a constitutional battleground. A1
 
Threat to Miami Politicians
Miami's Cuban-Americans see the Elian Gonzalez case as the best opportunity since the failed Bay of Pigs invasion in 1961 to humiliate Fidel Castro. But domestic conflicts are stirring this pot, and threaten Miami and its two top politicians with their own Bay of Pigs. A14
 
In the predawn hours when the comfortable demonstrators have left, the hatred for Fidel Castro almost glows among the demonstrators at the home where Elian is staying. A1
 
Thousands demonstrated in Havana over the weekend, supporting the official point of view on Elian Gonzalez. But in everyday conversation, people have conflicting emotions. A14
 
Obstacle to Safety Inquiries
Fear of prosecution or civil liability is stopping people in transportation industries from cooperating with crash investigators and making them hesitate to collect data that could aid safety efforts, senior accident investigators say. A12
 
Little Changed Since Columbine
Little beyond the walls of Columbine High School in suburban Denver has changed since last April 20, when a killing rampage thrust the school into the vortex of national debates over gun rights, parental responsibilities and cultural violence. A12
 
Murder Victims on T-Shirts
In New Orleans, T-shirts commemorating the lives of young murder victims who often have died in gang-related killings are commonplace. A15
 
Gore-Clinton Appearance
Vice President Al Gore, who has been campaigning at a slight remove from President Clinton, attended a Democratic National Committee fund-raiser with the president. A16
 
Crusade for School Vouchers
An entrepreneur has spent $2 million to try to get a school voucher plan onto the November ballot. Under it, parents in California would be eligible for $4,000 a year per child for tuition at private schools, including parochial ones. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Medical Clinics for Poor Feeling a Financial Pinch
A small health care revolution that has brought dozens of badly needed family doctors to newly opened clinics in New York City's poorest neighborhoods is beginning to unravel, health and hospital experts say. The clinics, an alternative to the hospital emergency rooms which are the customary source of basic care for uninsured patients, have been undermined by a sea change in health care financing, the experts said. Many are struggling to stay open. A1
 
Corzine Has Broad Plans
Jon S. Corzine, the former co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company who is running for the United States Senate from New Jersey, has big plans, but few ideas of how he would pay for his proposals. B1
 
Model of a New Guggenheim
Models of Frank O. Gehry's design for a museum that the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation hopes to build in lower Manhattan will be presented at the Guggenheim's main building. B4
 
Progress in Apartment Talks
Negotiators for the real estate industry and the union representing workers at 2,900 New York City apartment buildings said that they made modest progress in talks last week, but still need to settle major differences to avoid a strike this Friday. B3
 
ARTS E1-8
 
The Pritzker Prize
The Hyatt Foundation, sponsors of the Pritzker Architecture Prize, plans to announce today that Rem Koolhaas, perhaps the most influential architect of his generation, will receive the award this year. E1
 
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-12
 
An Ugly Mets-Pirates Game
The Mets defeated the Pirates, 12-9, in a game filled with ugly plays. D1
 
OBITUARIES B8-9
 
Edward Gorey
An artist and author who was a grand master of the comic macabre, he was 75. B8
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-30
 
Turning Point in Market
Unless the technology shares rebound quickly from a steep drop last week, the Internet industry will no longer be seen as a sure thing for investors and entrepreneurs hoping to cash in quickly. The sell-off is causing anxiety across the New Economy -- even if many experts predict that Internet technology will continue its inexorable expansion into virtually all parts of the old economy. A1
 
Friday's rout on Wall Street reverberated across Asia today. Stocks in Japan and South Korea quickly fell in early trading, and analysts were predicting more of the same when markets opened in Hong Kong and elsewhere overseas. A17
 
Upturn in China Growth
China's gross domestic product grew 8.1 percent in the first three months of the year, suggesting that a slide in the nation's economic growth rate may be ending. C12
 
Calling Attention to Coke
About four dozen former employees of Coca-Cola and activists began a five-day trip over the weekend to draw attention to their frustrations with the company. The group wants Coca-Cola to settle a racial discrimination suit brought by eight employees nearly a year ago. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: Mr. Bush's new look; impending famine in Ethiopia; a judicial rebuke for the city; the rebel flag in South Carolina.
 
 Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E6
 
Public Lives A12
 
Crossword E4
 
TV Listings E8
 
Metro Diary B2
 
Weather D11 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ETHIOPIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); TAIWAN (93%); ISRAEL (92%); SERBIA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); MIAMI POLITICIANS MIAMI (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ETHIOPIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); TAIWAN (93%); ISRAEL (92%); SERBIA (79%); CHINA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); EVICTION (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); STARVATION (72%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); MILITARY VESSELS (66%); DRUG TESTING (65%); STUDENT DRUG TESTING (65%); SCHOOL BOARDS (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (50%); EHUD BARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



464 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: National News Briefs;
Low-Cost Phone Service Is Proposed for Indians

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: PALO ALTO, Calif., April 16

 BODY:
President Clinton will announce a plan on Monday to provide basic telephone service for $1 a month on American Indian reservations, the White House said today.
William E. Kennard, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, said he expected the plan to benefit 300,000 households. 
 Nationwide, 56 percent of households on Indian reservations have telephones, compared with 94 percent for the population as a whole.
To pay for the plan, Mr. Kennard said he would propose adding $17 million to a program that underwrites phone service costs for low-income people. Long-distance phone companies, which pay subsidies to states to help low-income people, would pay the additional costs.
Also today, the Microsoft Corporation announced that it would give $2.5 million worth of software and $200,000 in cash to be divided among eight tribal colleges in an effort to help bridge the "digital divide" and economic disparity between Indian tribes and wealthier segments of society.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (70%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING NATIVE AMERICANS (91%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (88%); TELEPHONE RATES (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (87%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (87%); BUDGETS (86%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



465 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Continue Sharp Sell-Off In World Markets

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Monday, April 17

 BODY:
Friday's rout on Wall Street reverberated across Asia today, with so-called old economy stocks sliding together with technology issues as investors worried about the fallout from declining stocks on the United States economy and the nation's demand for Asian exports.
Stocks in South Korea were down 10 percent during the day after trading was halted briefly at the opening because of the steep decline. Japan's Nikkei index dropped 7 percent, and the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong was down more than 8 percent at its midday break. 
 "This is more than we anticipated," said Joe Lee, an analyst at Daiwa Securities in Seoul, South Korea. "It's not just the tech stocks. Everything is falling right now."
And in an indication of trading once the United States markets opened, the Nasdaq 100 index futures contract was down 2.3 percent and the S.& P. 500 contract was down 1.2 percent.
The shock waves came despite efforts by financial officials to calm investors, who were responding to a 9.67 percent drop in the Nasdaq composite index on Friday. Australia's All Ordinaries index dropped by more than 5 percent even after Prime Minister John Howard went on the radio to remind shareholders of the strength of Australia's economy.
Officials at the meeting of the Group of 7 industrial nations in Washington issued a statement on Saturday saying the global economic outlook was continuing to brighten. And Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa of Japan predicted that Wall Street's declines would not spread to Japan's stock markets.
Investors were concerned that lower asset values in the United States could dampen demand among consumers and companies for electronics, a key component of Asia's export-led recovery.
Much will depend on the direction of the United States markets this week, but many analysts said they shared Mr. Miyazawa's optimism that stronger economic fundamentals and a smaller number of Internet stocks would help reduce the effect in Tokyo and that markets would recover during the day.
"The magnitude of the sell-off won't be anywhere near where it is in the U.S.," said Kathy Matsui, a strategist at Goldman, Sachs in Tokyo. Japan is far behind the United States in terms of adopting information technology, she said, giving its technology companies much more room still to grow.
While the broad declines could bring a welcome dose of reality to speculative Internet stocks, analysts said they could turn up buying opportunities for companies that make the nuts and bolts of the network economy, like Fujitsu, NEC, Samsung Electronics and Hyundai Electronics.
Supporting such optimism were stock prices in Taiwan, which after falling on Saturday bucked the trend today by rising slightly.
Moreover, some analysts said a shift away from high-technology investments was likely to rekindle interest in emerging markets like Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines. Despite positive economic growth forecasts, a dearth of Internet-related stocks has left those markets far behind those in North Asia.
But other analysts said their concern was that so much wealth had evaporated with last week's declines -- more than $2 trillion -- that it could touch off waves of selling in Asia's smaller markets, with the potential for even more drastic price declines. Any such landslide in prices was likely to test government commitments to free-market dynamics and resist the temptation to intervene to protect asset values.
Rising stock prices over the last year made it easier for Asia's heavily indebted companies to service their loans and, in the process, reduced the pressure on governments to reform their banking sectors. A sharp decline in stock prices, analysts said, was likely to refocus attention on the need for such restructuring for Asia's long-term economic health.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A stockbroker in Tokyo watched share prices plunge in early trading today. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); SMSN (LSE) (53%); 005930 (KSE) (53%); FUJ (LSE) (53%); 6702 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (53%); FUJITSU LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FUTURES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (51%); 

PERSON: ARNOLD, WAYNE JOHN HOWARD (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



466 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: From Cell, Coalition Looked Like a Movement

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16

 BODY:
As he sees it, Mike Saltz spent Saturday night in jail for exercising his natural-born rights of free speech and peaceable assembly.
A man who appears both sweet-tempered and thoughtful, Mr. Saltz, 22, a student at the University of Oregon in Eugene, was swept up in a mass arrest of roughly 600 people near the International Monetary Fund on Saturday. 
 He was trying to find some friends at a rally, he said, when he was arrested, cuffed wrist to ankle and charged with parading without a permit, an infraction legally less serious than a misdemeanor.
"I was really shocked," he said. "When it comes to disagreeing with the dominant view, your rights are really out the window. They can do whatever they want -- they're the police."
It was his first arrest. He spent Saturday night and Sunday morning in a holding cell in the bowels of the District of Columbia Superior Court before he paid a $50 fine and was freed. He had had no water to drink, he said, and only a doughnut to eat. But he had plenty of time to ponder his part in this weekend's street protests in Washington, in the diffuse movement for "economic justice" -- if it is a movement -- and the police reaction to it.
Mr. Saltz was raised in Yorba Linda, Calif., not far from Richard Nixon's family home. His family is a pure product of the American Dream, he said. But he began to get ideas about politics in grade school that were a little outside the mainstream in Southern California.
"I started getting interested in activism in the third grade," he said. Sprawling developments cutting into mountain lions' habitat first fired his imagination. He became interested in the Sierra Club and the radical ecology group Earth First. He started a political magazine as a high school freshman. His work drew anonymous death threats, he said.
"In 1994, before I went to college, there was the Zapatista uprising" in southern Mexico. The small but politically savvy rural guerrilla movement, linked to the outside world by e-mail, demanded land rights for Mexican peasants and protested the North American Free Trade Agreement. That set Mr. Saltz studying, as he put it, "how globalization creates a movement like the Zapatistas, a globalized activism."
When he went off to the University of Oregon, his thinking connected with what he calls "this strange coalition" that drew thousands of protesters like him to Seattle in November and to Washington this weekend. It is a collection of advocates for ecology and self-declared anarchists, traditional leftists and mainstream labor unions and dozens more groups deeply skeptical of the forces of globalization.
Sitting on a park bench today in downtown Washington, two blocks from the White House and four from the World Bank, he reflected on his experience in Seattle, where he was not arrested, and on the crowd in Washington, and said, "I'm beginning to call this a movement.
"It could break apart as easily as it came together," he said, "but it feels like it's coming together. In Seattle it was just forming. Now there seems to be a coherent, cohesive idea -- economic justice. The World Trade Organization was something to latch onto. It represents what we reject: an economy that is becoming less and less democratic.
"Governments are repressing movements for economic democracy like the Zapatistas. In this country, the government is cutting social spending. We're doing away with welfare, doing away with job security. There's more and more temporary work, jobs that don't provide a living wage. The economy's creating more billionaires, but there's a huge, growing gap between the rich and poor."
"I don't know if the movement is at the point of proposing a model," he said. "Maybe it's fair trade. Maybe it's getting people to think about what they buy, whether whatever they're buying is made in sweatshops or under exploitative conditions. Maybe it's getting people to see they have the power to change things."
For himself, in the future, it may be a career as a labor organizer, or working abroad in poor villages, maybe in Mexico, he said.
For today, it was enough to get out of jail and back into the streets and their continuing political carnival tinged with confrontation.
"I'm still trying to figure out for myself what the answer is," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Saltz, an Oregon student, spent a night in a Washington jail. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: EUGENE, OR, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; UNIVERSITY OF OREGON UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); SUPERIOR COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA (56%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA SUPERIOR COURT (56%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA SUPERIOR COURT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; UNIVERSITY OF OREGON UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); SUPERIOR COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA (56%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA SUPERIOR COURT (56%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA SUPERIOR COURT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); OREGON, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); EUGENE, OR, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS ARRESTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); MISDEMEANORS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (70%); POLITICS (69%); RIOTS (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); ECOTERRORISM (67%); FARM LABOR (64%); WILD CATS (63%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; SALTZ, MIKE RICHARD NIXON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



467 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1938 words

HEADLINE: Technology Sell-Off May Bring Shakeout of Dot-Com Concerns

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The steep drop last week in the price of technology stocks, punctuating a three-week slide, may mark a turning point in perceptions. Unless the technology shares rebound quickly, the Internet industry will no longer be seen as a sure thing for investors and entrepreneurs hoping to cash in quickly.
A few bad days were one thing. But with the shares of many leading technology companies now down by 40 or 50 percent in less than a month, the sell-off is causing anxiety across the New Economy -- even if many experts predict that Internet technology will continue its inexorable expansion into virtually all parts of the old economy. 
 Indeed, the long-predicted winnowing of dot-com companies now seems at hand, according to venture capitalists, industry executives and economists. The term "Internet" in a business plan, they say, will no longer assure funding for a start-up or a quick welcome in the stock market.
A more sober investment environment, they add, is not likely to slow the development or spread of Internet technology across the economy. The Internet, they point out, is a low-cost communications network that promises to curb inflation over the next decade, lift productivity and enhance the efficiency of business throughout the economy -- benefits, they say, that will be as valuable when the stock market opens this morning as they were a week, a month or a year ago.
Yet the underlying trend may provide scant comfort for investors. Fundamental technologies in the past -- railroads, electricity and automobiles -- have been marked by investment euphoria, waves of start-ups, fierce competition and harrowing shakeouts. An investment mania in Britain in the 1840's helped build that nation's railway system, but it eventually left a trail of corporate bankruptcies. From 1900 to 1925, there were more than 3,000 automobile start-ups in America turning out all manner of cars -- from three-wheel models to ones steered by shiplike tillers.
And today's technology investors have no assurance that the worst is over. Even after last week's decline, technology share prices are still far higher than other sectors. As of Friday's close, the ratio of the stock price to expected earnings for the 72 information technology companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was more than 41. That was nearly twice the level for the S.& P. 500 index as a whole.
"Maybe technology stocks are still overvalued by 25 percent or 50 percent or more; only the stock market can give us that answer," said Richard Shaffer, principal of Technologic Partners, a research firm. "But that fundamental shift of business onto the Internet in the last few years is a direction that is here to stay for years to come."
On Silicon Valley's Sand Hill Road, the Wall Street of the venture capital industry, there is no panic. But there is the view among venture capital veterans that another industry cycle may well be beginning -- as occurred in 1983, after the shares of personal computer companies swooned, and in 1987, after the stock market collapse in October, when the money pouring into venture funds slowed. Such a prospect means that fledgling Internet start-ups without profits may no longer be welcomed on Wall Street only a year or two after they were founded.
So venture capitalists -- who supply early funding to start-up companies in return for an ownership stake in them -- may be taking a more back-to-basics approach in the future. Venture capitalists may begin picking fewer companies to back and nurturing them longer to maturity, before they try to sell shares to the public in initial public offerings.
The changing environment for start-ups is making some would-be entrepreneurs anxious. At the Harvard Business School, last year's graduates plunged with abandon into the Internet revolution, especially those who helped found 35 start-up companies including Guru.com, UBUBU.com and eFrenzy.com. This spring, the class of 2000 seemed to be on a similar path -- until last week.
"The students are scared to death," William A. Sahlman, a professor at the business school and the co-chairman of Harvard's entrepreneurial studies program, said last Friday.
He noted that three groups of worried students considering start-ups had visited him in recent days, seeking his advice. "Right now, I'd say we'll have half the number of start-ups out of this year's class, compared with last year," he said. "And that's probably not a bad thing."
Longtime venture capitalists say a more measured approach would be a positive development, even if it would also mean waiting longer to cash in. Instead of investing $20 million in a start-up that goes public a year later, they might have to invest $100 million over three or four years in a new company before selling its shares to the public. And they may have to be ready to pull the plug on less-promising start-ups.
"A lot of the recent crop of dot-com companies will go under, and others will be sent to the fat farm," Michael Moritz, a partner in the venture capital firm Sequoia Capital, said. "But it's a tonic -- however painful its administration may be for some -- that is pretty healthy."
Investors in venture capital funds -- each of which typically backs many companies -- normally have their money tied up for five years or more. The funds are open only to wealthy individuals and institutional investors. The perspective of venture investors is a world apart from that of day traders. So it would take time before a lasting reversal on Wall Street affected the way business is done in the venture capital industry.
In 1999, venture capital funds in the United States raised $46.5 billion, up from $27.9 billion the year before. The surge in venture money actually invested in companies was even more striking -- to $48.3 billion last year from $19.2 billion in 1998.
Until now, the rate of venture investment has accelerated further. In the last 30 days, there were 670 new venture capital investments totaling $10.2 billion, or a rate of roughly $2 billion a week, reports VentureWire.com, which tracks the industry.
Yet as the technology-stock euphoria fades, venture capitalists say they expect the flood of money into venture funds to ease off. And if there is a lasting slowdown in Wall Street's enthusiasm for high-technology share offerings, there could be an end to the stratospheric returns some funds have racked up by taking companies public quickly and reinvesting in still more start-ups. Over the years, the average annual return of leading venture capital funds has been around 20 percent, compared with the 100 percent or more some have enjoyed in the last year or two.
Experienced venture capitalists have long recognized that a return to earth in technology companies was inevitable. But as investors who have benefited enormously from the run-up, they have mixed feelings about the steep falloff recently.
"I'm torn," said John Shoch, a partner in Alloy Ventures. "Sure, it's healthy to take the froth out of the market. But at the same time, we have four or five companies that are lined up to go public over the next few months."
Several Internet companies, including AltaVista, the Web directory and search site, have already postponed plans to sell shares.
Still, turmoil in the stock market does not mean venture capital funding will dry up. Even late last week, some companies went public. One start-up that Mr. Shoch's firm funded, Nuance Communications, went public last Thursday. Its offering price of $17 a share nearly doubled on the first day of trading, closing at just under $34. On Friday, when technology stocks plummeted, Nuance rose slightly, to $34.3125 a share.
Nuance, based in Menlo Park, Calif., has developed technology for making voice-recognition software work more efficiently. It is a promising technology, since new companies are trying to make voices and telephones -- not keyboards -- the main means of access to the Internet. At the same time, old-economy companies like banks and telephone companies hope to use the technology to further automate their operations.
"The environment is going to get more challenging," Mr. Shoch said. "But real companies with real technology and real businesses will get funded -- rest assured."
Such start-ups, venture capitalists say, will attract funds because investors are willing to bet that they are making technological building blocks for the Internet economy, and thus poised for strong growth.
The big shakeout among dot-com companies is expected to be among the consumer Web sites and services that raced to establish themselves as Internet brand names. In selected market niches, they have all tried to be the "next Amazon," and most, of course, will fail.
The economic impact of the winnowing will likely be healthy. As one venture capitalist noted: "It will mean we have two or three Web sites selling pet supplies instead of seven. That's hardly a loss."
That Darwinian process is familiar to many. In the early 1980's, there was a surge of investment in companies in the PC industry, which ended abruptly in the summer of 1983 when technology stocks collapsed. Companies with now-forgotten names like Eagle Computer, Northstar Computer, Kaypro, Word Star, Vector Graphics, Priam and Miniscribe fell by the wayside during the shakeout that followed.
"But out of each one of these cycles of investment frenzy and turmoil, a handful of tremendous companies have emerged -- Microsoft, Dell, Sun Microsystems, Cisco, Oracle and others," Mr. Moritz of Sequoia Capital observed. "And the same thing will happen this time."
The focus of venture capital investments in the Internet has already shifted from businesses that sell directly to consumers to businesses that help other businesses to work more efficiently. The so-called business-to-business market has long been regarded as the largest -- and most economically significant -- market for Internet technology.
As a low-cost communications network linking businesses worldwide, the Internet is expected to reduce the cost of materials, inventory management and product development.
The Internet's impact in overhauling this "back office" of the global economy is uncertain and just beginning. But most economists believe it will make a notable impact over time, just as electricity only really made a big difference to industry when factories were reorganized for mass production. A recent study by the Goldman Sachs investment firm concluded that business-to-business electronic commerce could reduce average prices across the economies of the five richest nations by nearly 4 percent over a decade or more.
It is no small irony, though, that the sure winners from the continued spread of Internet commerce are old-economy companies, whose operations are being retooled. (Another big class of winners is consumers, who benefit from lower prices.) As with past innovations, from railways to cars, the companies that supply the technology itself can be very risky investments indeed.
Back at Harvard, what did Mr. Sahlman say to the students considering start-ups but scared by the stock market's loss of faith?
"I told them that if you have a good idea and a top team of people and can attract the backing of a blue-chip venture capital firm, then there is no real personal risk," he said. "Even if the business fails, it can only be great learning experience in a part of the economy that is sure to become more and more important.
"But then," Mr. Sahlman noted, "it is harder to take that advice than to give it. After all, I'm a tenured professor."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Trading in futures contracts on the Nasdaq 100 index at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange reached frantic levels on Friday afternoon as the session neared its end. Futures prices fell sharply. (Reuters)(pg. A17)
 
Chart: "Two Views of Technology"
Compared with other stocks, the prices of technology shares remain high, relative to company earnings. And venture capitalists still have ample funds to invest.
 
Graphs show the S & P price-to-earnings ratio. (pg. A17)(Sources: Deutsche Bank Securities; National Venture Capital Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: TECHNOLOGIC PARTNERS (50%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY INTERNET & WWW (91%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); BONDS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); TRENDS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



468 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1788 words

HEADLINE: Family in Texas Challenges Mandatory School Drug Test

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: LOCKNEY, Tex.

 BODY:
For three years, people in this tiny farming town fretted that stopping the local drug problem was like trying to lasso the winds that blow day and night off the flat Texas plains. Teachers complained of students' getting stoned at lunch. Parents worried about peer pressure at school to get high.
Eventually, after an emotional public meeting and demands that something be done, the school board here enacted what is considered the toughest school drug testing policy in the nation. It requires that all junior and senior high school students take a mandatory drug test. There is no choice; refusal by a parent or student draws the same punishment as failure to pass the test, an in-school suspension for first offenders. 
 Now, as many other school districts across the country institute drug tests, Lockney, with only 2,200 residents, has become an unlikely constitutional battleground. A parent, aided by the American Civil Liberties Union, filed a lawsuit in March asserting that the policy violated his and his son's Fourth Amendment rights prohibiting unreasonable searches. Arguments in the case could be heard as soon as this summer by a federal judge.
"They cannot tell me how I'm supposed to believe," said the parent, Larry Tannahill, 35, whose 12-year-old son, Brady, attends the junior high. "I believe in the Constitution. And because I believe in our Constitution and our rights, you're going to punish my son? I don't think so."
Since 1995, when the United States Supreme Court opened the door to drug testing in schools by permitting the testing of athletes, the unanswered question has been where would schools, and ultimately the court, draw the line.
Until now, school districts had been tentative in pushing the boundaries, particularly because legal challenges to wider testing are pending in Oklahoma, New Jersey and other states. But Lockney's policy of testing every student has shattered any boundaries.
"If the policy has no teeth, there's no use having it," said Donald G. Henslee, the lawyer representing the Lockney Independent School District. Mr. Henslee said at least a dozen other Texas districts had inquired about instituting a similar policy.
For Mr. Tannahill, the controversy has made clear the tensions that can arise when an individual challenges the will of the majority, particularly in a small town. He and his wife, Traci, are the only parents who are fighting the policy. He was dismissed from his job as a farm worker, though his former employer says the firing was unrelated to the lawsuit, and he has found a threatening note outside his home. Some people have invited the Tannahills to leave town.
Up and down Main Street, people say they do not wish Mr. Tannahill any harm, but they cannot believe one person should stop them from doing what they believe is in the best interests of their children. To many parents, the drug test is a "tool" to provide students a reason to resist peer pressure to drink or do drugs. The debate over constitutional rights seems secondary to many people.
"I don't feel like it's violating my rights for my kid to be tested," said Kelly Prayor, 35, who has two children and is a teller at the local bank. "As far as my kids' rights, they're not responsible. What rights do they have? They don't have a right to drink or do drugs."
Lockney, which is between Lubbock and Amarillo, is a tiny spot in the agricultural sea of the Texas plains, which stretch to the horizon, interrupted only by telephone poles and windmills and, occasionally, a tree. The local schools are the biggest employer, and the red logo of the Lockney Longhorns, the high school, is painted on the two water towers and displayed in the rear windshields of many of the trucks rumbling through town.
People in Lockney do not believe that drugs are any worse here than in other small towns, but the issue has generated attention for several years. In 1997, nearly 300 people attended a public meeting to discuss drugs. A year later, 12 people were charged with selling cocaine, an event that stunned the town.
By then, school officials were studying drug testing policies, including those in several surrounding towns. Most of the policies involved testing students for extracurricular activities. One nearby town with such a policy, Tulia, is continuing the testing even as it is under challenge in federal court.
But Lockney officials were intrigued by another town, Sundown, which instituted a mandatory testing policy for all students in 1998 that has yet to be challenged. Last December, the Lockney school board approved its own mandatory policy and notified parents that testing would begin in February. Under the plan, all junior and senior high students would take a urine test and submit to random follow-up tests. Employees of the district also undergo the tests.
Today, all 388 students in junior and senior high schools in Lockney have taken the text except Brady. School officials would not say how many tested positive other than to describe the number as a "Texas handful." The in-school suspensions given to first-time offenders last three days and require students to complete their class work in a separate room. They also undergo drug counseling and are suspended from all school activities for three weeks. Repeat offenders face longer suspensions, though not expulsion.
Julie Underwood, general counsel for the National School Boards Association in Washington, called the Lockney policy "about as broad as it could ever be," saying it resulted from the "slippery slope" created by the Supreme Court's ruling allowing testing of athletes. Since then, Ms. Underwood said, the court has resisted clarifying the parameters for testing and has sent mixed signals.
In October 1998, the court let stand a lower court ruling enabling an Indiana school district to require a drug test for students participating in after-school activities. But last March, the court dealt a blow to another Indiana school by leaving intact a lower court ruling that prohibited the school from requiring suspended students to take a drug test before resuming classes.
"School districts don't know exactly how far they can take this," Ms. Underwood said. "There hasn't been a definitive ruling by the Supreme Court on mandatory testing or random drug testing by school districts."
Eric E. Sterling, president of the nonprofit Criminal Justice Policy Foundation in Washington, predicted that more districts would emulate Lockney as more parents felt helpless to prevent their children from using drugs. Mr. Sterling said the policy could be a deterrent for some students but he cautioned that it could further alienate students at risk of taking drugs. He said the "presumption of guilt" created by the policy flies in the face of the Pledge of Allegiance that students recite every morning.
"Their sense of liberty and what liberty means will be offended every time they're asked to provide a urine specimen without any cause that they're using drugs," he said.
A lanky, laconic man, Mr. Tannahill says he is hardly a rebel, but he fears his neighbors are too eager to give up their rights. He said that he had not used drugs and that he did not oppose some sort of drug testing policy, though not mandatory. His stance seems far more libertarian than liberal: he also says that growing gun control efforts violate the constitutional right to bear arms.
His family has lived in Lockney for four generations, and he calls the town "a good little community." Yet he was incensed that under the school testing policy his refusal to sign a parental consent form meant that Brady was considered guilty.
"I'm tired of letting our rights just be taken away," said Mr. Tannahill, whose younger son, Coby, 11, attends the town's elementary school. "They are taking my rights away as a parent, telling me I had to do this or my son would be punished. That's what really got to me."
Mr. Tannahill, who graduated from Lockney High, added, "The teacher taught me that if you give up your rights, and you're not going to fight for them, you'll lose them."
Mr. Henslee, the school district's lawyer, said the board was reconsidering its stance on parents who refuse to give consent. He said the board remained committed to mandatory testing but was considering alternatives to punishments attached to cases like the Tannahills'. Brady has been allowed to continue his normal classes and activities, pending the result of the lawsuit.
Mr. Tannahill, meanwhile, is struggling with life as a pariah. He said he had gotten friendly phone calls or quiet nods from some people, but few support him publicly. His wife works as a clerk at a nearby prison. Unemployed, he builds miniature barns and windmills at home that he hopes to sell on the Internet. He said his sons had been treated well at school, as if nothing had happened, but he remained wary.
Several weeks ago, the family's pet boxer was sprayed with orange paint from a paint gun. Mr. Tannahill said he found a note outside his house that read, "You're messing with our children, and next time maybe this won't be a paint gun."
At a school board meeting in March, Mr. Tannahill and his lawyer unsuccessfully asked the board to change its policy. Hundreds of people packed into the Lockney Independent School District's high school gymnasium for the meeting, many of them wearing T-shirts that read: "We asked for it. L.I.S.D. delivered it. We appreciate it." Speaker after speaker extolled the policy to loud applause until Mr. Tannahill's lawyer was greeted with stony silence.
"If looks could kill, me and my family would have been dead a long time ago," Mr. Tannahill said.
Graham Boyd, a civil liberties union lawyer who is representing Mr. Tannahill, asserted that the policy had many failings, including that a urine test does not detect all drugs. But beyond the legal questions, Mr. Boyd said he was surprised at the tensions that had arisen.
"This isn't about race or religion or one of the things you would expect to inflame a community," he said. "This is about drug testing a 12-year-old boy."
People in Lockney say Mr. Tannahill is not in any danger, though a few concede they would not mind if he left. Residents described the drug policy as a common-sense solution to help children resist drugs. A few people expressed doubts about the policy, but an overwhelming majority of parents and students agreed with Jordan Lambert, a senior and the quarterback of the football team.
"I think it's great," Jordan said. "I don't see how we're being forced to when we're more than willing. Ninety-eight percent of the student body is more than willing. Nobody is being forced to."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry Tannahill has filed suit over a mandatory school drug test. His son Brady, center, was to be tested; Coby, another son, was too young. (David Bowser for The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 
Map of Texas highlighting Lockney: A federal judge is to weigh drug testing rules in Lockney, Tex. (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (83%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (83%); BRADY CENTER TO PREVENT GUN VIOLENCE (59%); BRADY CENTER TO PREVENT GUN VIOLENCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (83%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (83%); BRADY CENTER TO PREVENT GUN VIOLENCE (59%); BRADY CENTER TO PREVENT GUN VIOLENCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOCKNEY (TEX); UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; SUITS AND LITIGATION; THREATS AND THREATENING MESSAGES; SEARCH AND SEIZURE; TESTS AND TESTING SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DRUG TESTING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (90%); STUDENT DRUG TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (88%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); CHILDREN (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); LAWYERS (69%); JUDGES (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); DISMISSALS (63%); FARM LABOR (50%); 

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM; TANNAHILL, LARRY LARRY TANNAHILL (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



469 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1884 words

HEADLINE: FINANCIAL LEADERS MEET AS PROTESTS CLOG WASHINGTON

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER with DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16

 BODY:
Thousands of protesters trying to shut down meetings of world financial leaders swarmed through the streets of the capital today, sealed off from their target by a virtual wall of police officers. A few brief clashes ensued, but for the most part, a day that some had feared would descend into chaos passed peacefully.
The finance ministers and other delegates from around the world were loaded onto buses early this morning and escorted by the police so their meetings could take place as scheduled. This evening, they tacitly acknowledged the shouting on the streets by conceding in a communique issued by the International Monetary Fund that their role had become a matter "of growing public debate." 
 They acknowledged a widespread fear that "the benefits of the world economy" are "not reaching everyone, especially in the developing countries." But they offered no new prescriptions, other than some reforms of the I.M.F.'s internal operations that are already under way.
Unlike on Saturday, when the police arrested some 600 people, today they arrested fewer than 20, but responded forcefully to any challenges, wielding clubs and pepper spray against protesters who defied them. Several were injured. But on several occasions, police officers did back off when challenged, effectively defusing conflicts.
All weekend long, the police acted sternly and pre-emptively, shutting down the protest headquarters early Saturday morning, making mass arrests of even peaceful marchers by that evening and shunting hordes of protesters around today. The combination allowed the police here mostly to avoid the kind of widespread chaos that disrupted world trade meetings in Seattle last year, a feat the protesters said they had hoped to repeat.
The 1,500 or so officers from city and federal agencies, many in riot gear, sealed off an area for many blocks around the buildings housing the World Bank and the I.M.F., standing shoulder to shoulder behind fence-like metal barricades.
On the other side of the barricades, demonstrators roamed almost at will, hoisting giant puppets and signs -- a pig labeled I.M.F. with the world in its mouth like an apple, red hands that said "spank the bank" -- and accusing the financial institutions of burdening poor third world countries with crushing debts, impoverishing peasants, destroying rain forests, supporting sweatshops and other policies that, as one sign put it, "sap the poor to fatten the rich."
For most of the day, the protests were peaceful. About 10,000 people gathered on the grassy Ellipse for a rally calling for changes in the world financial systems.
But there were at least two short, sharp clashes between police officers and demonstrators, where the officers used pepper spray and what appeared to be a form of anti-riot gas or smoke grenades and charged into protesters beating them with long sticks. And there were other moments of tension.
Mayor Anthony A. Williams said this evening that the police had acted with appropriate force when challenged today, and that the mass arrests of peaceful protesters the night before were justified as a matter of prudence.
"But it is like steering a raft down a raging river," he said. "You can control it, but then the unexpected can happen."
The Federal Office of Personnel Management said today that only essential personnel should report to work inside the protest zone on Monday. Many federal offices, like the Treasury Department, are in that area.
"It is a serious situation," Mr. Williams said. "It is simmering down, but again, people have been on the street for a long time, so nerves are frazzled. There is a sense of anxiety and anticipation."
Despite failing to achieve their avowed goal of blocking the finance ministers from attending the meeting, by late afternoon many of the protesters were jubilant at the attention drawn to their sometimes diffuse cause, which drew many of the same groups that descended on Seattle. Although many of the protesters were from no particular organization, demonstrators included people from a religious group Jubilee 2000, United Students Against Sweatshops, big labor unions and ad hoc coalitions like Global Exchange, 50 Years is Enough and the Ruckus Society.
"We're having a victory party in the street," said Patrick Rensborough, one of the spokesmen for the Mobilization for Global Justice, the umbrella organization coordinating the protest.
"We're celebrating that this movement has come about," he went on, standing at the edge of the rally in the Ellipse that went for most of the afternoon. "A few days ago most Americans didn't know the first thing about the World Bank or the I.M.F. These institutions can't survive public scrutiny. This is the first step toward shutting them down."
While the marchers paraded below with their signs bearing slogans like "Defund the Fund," the leaders of the I.M.F. were upstairs arguing over different issues, including who should get a bigger voice in running the institution.
Japan staged a minor rebellion aimed at winning a larger voice for itself and other Asian nations in the fund's operations. Tokyo had put up a candidate to run the I.M.F. earlier this year, although by tradition the managing director has always been a European. (The World Bank has always been directed by an American.) Though the effort did not get very far today, the world's second-largest economy was clearly laying down a marker that it no longer planned to acquiesce to the old order. "There's a sense that this has always been a white man's club," one senior Japanese official said recently, "and that needs some rethinking."
Meanwhile, several leaders of smaller nations said during the meeting that they were alarmed by reform proposals -- including those developed by a Congressional commission -- that would limit the size and duration of the fund's loans during economic crises. They fear that it would reduce the money made available to them.
The contrast with the message being delivered by demonstrators outside could not have been sharper. While developing nations fear that the fund's money could dry up, many of those on the street were arguing that the same money hurts the poor because it often comes with so many strings attached.
The communique issued at the end of the meeting bore no surprises. But it clearly anticipated the din outside. It acknowledged that the growing debate over the future of the fund and the World Bank "reflects a concern that the benefits the world economy is deriving from freer trade and more integrated and deeper international capital markets are not reaching everyone."
But in the end, it prescribed the kind of changes the fund says it is already pursuing: more disclosure about the financial state of member countries, more involvement of the private sector in international bailouts, a crackdown on the kind of misreporting of financial data that took the I.M.F. by surprise in its dealings with Russia.
It called for closer work with the World Bank "to lead in helping countries to develop policies to combat poverty and improve social conditions," carefully steering clear of the arguments over how much of that responsibility should fall to the bank, the traditional poverty-fighter, and how much to the fund, which manages international financial crises.
Even before the sun came up, clumps of 20 or 30 demonstrators were moving through the streets toward assembly points at Farragut Park and Washington Circle. By 7 a.m. they had blocked all of the intersections around the police perimeter, erecting barricades near the George Washington University campus. They used tipped-over garbage containers, old furniture and about dozen bags of mulch intended for the university's gardens, placed like sandbags.
But police officers were up even earlier. They began picking up the finance ministers and other delegates at the Watergate, the Four Seasons and other luxury hotels as early as 5 a.m., loading them into buses and vans and shuttling them in caravans escorted by motorcycles and cars, lights flashing and sirens wailing, by circuitous routes that took them through the sealed-off stretch of Pennsylvania Avenue past the White House and two blocks further to the I.M.F. meeting.
With the meeting safely under way, the police tactics for most of the day consisted mainly of maintaining their perimeter. On Saturday, they had moved aggressively to shut down the protesters' headquarters, declaring that it was a "fire hazard" and arresting some 600 people after boxing them in on the street.
Worried over the chaotic Seattle protests against the World Trade Organization last fall, the police have been training for weeks, have bought $1 million worth of new equipment, including shin guards, chest protectors and big gauntlets, and expect a $1.6 million overtime bill.
The demonstrators, including several hundred self-styled anarchists dressed solidly in black to their combat boots, most with sweatshirt hoods and bandana masks obscuring their faces, marched and wandered throughout the largely deserted downtown. At the midpoint of a sunny afternoon, protesters from the Ellipse rally merged with a crowd coming from the George Washington campus into a huge parade, chanting "This is what democracy looks like."
The crowd was overwhelmingly young, many organized on college campuses. And there were a few graying veterans of 1960's demonstrations, including the comedian Dick Gregory and Tom Hayden, one of the organizers of the 1968 Democratic convention protests and now a California state senator.
"It's inspiring," said Dan Swanson, 47, who marched with Students for a Democratic Society in his youth. "They're much more disciplined and aware than we were at that age."
The most serious clash between protesters and the police came a little after 10 o'clock in the morning as a group of about 250 black-clad anarchists merged with a larger group of protesters, and then suddenly began dragging trash containers and newspaper vending boxes into the street to form a barricade on 14th Street near New York Avenue.
As the police at first backed off, the anarchists seized several sections of barbed wire topped chain-link fence that the officers had been using as a partial barricade and, holding it before them, charged north toward a phalanx of officers in riot gear, some on motorcycles.
The officers, in turn, charged toward the demonstrators, with the motorcycles plowing over the chain link fence and into the crowd. Someone threw an orange traffic cone, knocking an officer off his motorcycle. Others threw rocks or bottles. Briefly on the defensive, the police officers waded in, nightsticks swinging, and overwhelmed the crowd in a melee that lasted about 15 minutes.
Suddenly a stinging, biting gas enveloped the crowd. The police denied using tear gas, although journalists at the scene said canisters appeared to come from the police side.
At a news conference tonight, protest leaders said the police had used tear gas in the incident. They showed a video of an officer clubbing a young woman, and said some of those arrested last night were held on buses for 14 hours. But they also praised senior police commanders for keeping their officers calm and avoiding confrontation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Police officers scuffled with a protester who fell under a horse on Constitution Avenue yesterday. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A8); Protesters clashed a few times yesterday with police officers who cordoned off downtown Washington. (Reuters)(pg. A1)
 
Map of Washington D.C. highlighting World Bank and I.M.F buildings: Protesters tried to shut down World Bank and I.M.F. meetings. (pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); RIOTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); RAIN FORESTS (50%); 

PERSON: KIFNER, JOHN; SANGER, DAVID E

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



470 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1658 words

HEADLINE: Financial Struggles At Medical Clinics For the City's Poor

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
A small health care revolution that has brought dozens of badly needed family doctors to new clinics in New York City's poorest neighborhoods is beginning to unravel, health and hospital experts say.
The clinics had been multiplying in the city since the early 1990's, embraced as an efficient and affordable alternative to hospital emergency rooms, an all-too-frequent source of basic care for poor patients. But they have been seriously undermined in the last few years by a sea change in health care financing, the experts said. 
 Many clinics are struggling to stay open, and hospitals are abandoning plans to build new ones. Last year, the number of applications for new primary-care sites was down 38 percent from 1995, according to State Health Department documents.
All the clinics have been hit hard by a rapid rise in uninsured patients in the last few years -- 27 percent of city residents under 65 lack insurance, according to the latest figures -- who can pay little, if anything, for care. Further, health centers that serve the poor have been hammered by heavy reductions in reimbursements from managed-care companies and from the Medicaid program, which pays the bills for the majority of the clinics' paying patients.
"The burst of development in primary care in poor neighborhoods that we saw five or six years ago has disappeared," said Dr. Spencer Foreman, president of Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, which has set up at least a dozen clinics. "At that time, people had money and they thought it was a good thing to do. But development has slowed way, way down, because we have run out of resources."
Indeed, 80 percent of the community health care clinics in New York City lost money at some point over the last four years, said John Billings, director of the Center for Health and Public Service Research at New York University.
The difficulty in maintaining a strong primary-care network is being felt in many other parts of the country, which all face the same financial hurdles, Professor Billings said. "It is much the same around the nation," he said, adding that some states, however, have committed more money to the problem.
What is more, a new report from the Community Service Society of New York found that the number of doctors in private practice in poor neighborhoods had barely budged in a decade, and had actually fallen in some areas. The report found a shortage of roughly 300 primary-care doctors in poor neighborhoods.
It was not supposed to turn out this way. During the 1990's, the number of primary-care doctors practicing in the city rose 20 percent, according to the Center for Health Workforce Studies at the State University at Albany. Dozens of primary-care clinics run by hospitals dotted the city, and the Primary Care Development Corporation, a private-public partnership, was founded to help the hospitals and others set up centers in underserved neighborhoods by providing tax-free bonds.
The clinics were envisioned as a more cost-effective way to provide routine care. With no doctors within miles, many New Yorkers had been turning to emergency rooms for basic care -- a costly and medically inefficient way to manage chronic diseases like asthma that poor people are often afflicted with.
"Primary care remains the most effective, cost-efficient way to deliver proper continuity of care," said David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society.
At the same time, hospitals in poor neighborhoods that were training residents watched as those doctors fled to other parts of the city, or even to other states.
"We were finding we could not attract our residents to stay in the Bronx," Dr. Foreman said. "It was perceived as being a troubled place to work, and what was frightening is that they would invest money opening up shop and then not be able to earn a living. So we took away the risk by opening up these centers for them."
With the same goals in mind, the Primary Care Development Corporation was formed in 1994 under Mayor David N. Dinkins to set up clinics in poor neighborhoods. When Rudolph W. Giuliani took office the next year, the clinic project was one of the few Dinkins initiatives he embraced. Through tax-free bonds and small loans, the corporation helps hospitals and other groups get centers off the ground. The corporation has helped finance 21 existing clinics around the city, and 6 more are under construction.
For patients like Sharaz Said, a Palestinian immigrant, the clinic that opened near her home in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, a modest building on a lot where an auto parts shop once sat, is about as close to medical nirvana that she has come. The Park Ridge Family Health Center was set up by the corporation in conjunction with Lutheran Medical Center.
After two years of taking her five children to the hospital for every minor illness, Mrs. Said now gets an appointment a few hours after calling Park Ridge. She sees the same doctor over and over. Her children are on an immunization schedule, and were enrolled by the center in an insurance program sponsored by the state. And once in a while, there is someone working at the front desk who speaks Arabic. There is even a tiny mosque set up at the clinic, because staff members noticed many of the patients -- a mix of Arabs, Chinese and Latinos -- praying in the hallways. "They make it very easy," said Mrs. Said.
But like most of the clinics that the Primary Care Development Corporation has helped finance, Park Ridge operates on very thin margins, and struggles to look for fat to trim in a system that is flooded with patients who have few other alternatives for good care.
Other clinics have even more uncertain futures -- Brookdale Hospital Medical Center, which serves an impoverished East Brooklyn community, is considering shuttering its clinics, a spokesman said.
So the corporation must now focus much of its effort on giving existing clinics technical help with a variety of tasks, including proper billing procedures and getting patients in and out speedily.
"Our hope is that as government policy and reimbursement rates get set, the rates for primary care get sufficient attention," said Richard Cotton, the corporation's chairman. "At this point we have been able to support proposals, but we are talking about a very thin margin of safety."
In a perfect world, of course, every patient could see a private doctor in a private office. But those doctors rarely set up shop in poor neighborhoods.
Many parts of the Bronx have few doctors in private practice. The Community Service Society study found that the number of doctors in Morris Heights, for example, has fallen 45 percent since 1990. In Soundview, the number has fallen 32 percent. Carlos Gutzman, who is 22 and lives in that neighborhood, said he had never seen the inside of a private doctor's office. He takes two buses to Lincoln Hospital when he gets very sick. "I guess a private doctor is great," he said, "but I don't know about them."
Because the pay is low, the best young primary-care doctors are usually not attracted to private practice in poor neighborhoods. So many patients end up getting care at places like the Family Health Center on the Grand Concourse in the Bronx, where Dr. Hoi Yat Kam labors in his tiny office, with a small examination table wedged against the wall.
During a recent visit, the employees' lunch was splayed out on an exam table near a hardback chair where patients sit for their tests, in a dismal room where medical assistants give shots and take blood. No gowns are used; patients simply lift a shirt or a pant leg to show their problem. Boxes of drugs sit in tumbling piles on the floor.
Few doctors who have hung shingles in poor neighborhoods have connections to area hospitals, and so they are unable to admit patients, the Community Service Society found. The report also found that 70 percent of the doctors in private practice in underserved neighborhoods practice less than 16 hours a week, making care that much harder to come by. They usually do not have relationships with specialists to refer their patients to, and lack many of the resources that doctors working in large medical centers enjoy.
The lack of a specialist referral system further hinders any continuity of care in these practices. For example, Dr. Mario Perodin, a Bronx pediatrician, said he had sent patients with complex problems to the local emergency room with a note. "It is a crummy way to do it, and the worst part is that the hospitals do not send me reports," he said.
Dr. Ethan Wiener, who is a pediatrics fellow in the South Bronx and said he was devoted to caring for the poor, nonetheless believes that it will be almost impossible to open a private practice in a poor neighborhood once he strikes out on his own.
"If it were a financially viable model, I think a lot more people would be doing it," he said. "The clinic is a much better model for those communities, because it does provide the referral base. I think I like the idea of working within a team because we can provide a whole variety of support services."
Most health care experts point to the Primary Care Development Corporation as the most viable solution to the primary-care problem. Gov. George E. Pataki has earmarked some of the revenue from the state's increased cigarette tax to provide insurance to some state residents, which will help lessen their burden on the clinics.
However, as Medicaid patients are moved into managed-care plans, a money-saving goal of New York State, that gain could be offset because managed-care companies often pay lower reimbursement rates than the government, experts said.
"Here is a system where the numbers sound like a crisis, and we are in the middle of the good times," Professor Billings said. "There are a lot of people who day to day teeter on the edge, and one wonders what will happen when the economy goes south."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2000, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article last Monday about the shortage of primary-care doctors in New York City's poorest neighborhoods referred to a clinic in the Bronx run by Dr. Hoi Yat Kam, describing it as cramped and unkempt. Dr. Kam was given an opportunity to comment on the depiction of his practice, but his response was omitted in editing. Dr. Kam, one of the few private doctors in the South Bronx willing to accept Medicaid patients, says he cannot afford renovations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Because private practice in poor neighborhoods is not lucrative, many family doctors have to cut back on amenities to run their businesses. Dr. Hoi Yat Kam examining Leonilda Moreno in his cramped Bronx office. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MONTEFIORE MEDICAL CENTER (54%); MEDICAID (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; DOCTORS; HOSPITALS; EMERGENCY MEDICAL TREATMENT HOSPITALS (90%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FAMILY PRACTICE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); CITIES (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER DAVID N DINKINS (66%); JOHN BILLINGS (61%); SPENCER FOREMAN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2000



471 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: First-Quarter Earnings Beat Expectations At 2 Banks

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bank of America and Bank of New York reported first-quarter profits yesterday that beat expectations, powered by surging stocks. After last week's sell-off, however, they might be hard-pressed to post similarly strong future results. 
 Earnings at Bank of America rose 17 percent. Bank of New York, the world's largest securities processor, said its profit rose 6.8 percent.
For the big banks, whose earnings are sensitive to swings in the debt and stock markets, the first-quarter results may represent a high-water mark. Rising interest rates and last week's stock market rout could crimp results in coming quarters.
"It's somewhat of a live by the sword, die by the sword," said Harold Schroeder, a bank analyst at Schroeder & Company in New York.
Bank of America, based in Charlotte, N.C., said higher fees from its securities unit and gains from its investments in companies pushed net income to $2.24 billion, or $1.33 a diluted share, compared with $1.91 billion, or $1.08 a share, in the period a year earlier.
Analysts had expected the bank to earn $1.24 a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial.
The bank has become increasingly dependent on business outside its traditional lending operations. In the first quarter, noninterest income grew 26 percent, to $4.05 billion, and was 47 percent of total revenue, up from 41 percent a year earlier.
Fees from underwriting securities rose 149 percent as the company benefited from the bull market and a flood of initial public offerings in the first quarter.
Noninterest expense increased 4 percent, to $4.62 billion, as the company spent $201 million more to pay employees.
Net interest income fell 1 percent, to $4.6 billion, as the bank made less money on some of its assets, pushing its net interest yield down 0.31 percentage points, to 3.27 percent.
Shares of Bank of America rose 37.5 cents, to $50.3125.
At the Bank of New York, net income rose 6.8 percent, to a record $338 million, or 46 cents a share, compared with $316 million, or 41 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. That beat analysts' estimates by a penny, according to First Call.
The bank, which handles more than $700 billion in securities for almost 30,000 clients worldwide, collects fees for holding stocks and bonds for clients and handling clerical duties like collecting dividend payments. Those fees from securities processing rose 28 percent, to $372 million, lifting total noninterest income 18 percent, to $737 million.
Growth in clients' portfolios helped increase assets under custody to $6.7 trillion.
Net interest income rose 5.5 percent, to $460 million, as the net yield on interest earning assets narrowed to 2.89 percentage points from 3.18 percentage points.
Shares of Bank of New York rose 12.5 cents, to $39.5625.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (94%); BAC (LSE) (94%); 8648 (TSE) (94%); BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA; BANK OF NEW YORK BANK OF AMERICA CORP (94%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF AMERICA; BANK OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY REPORTS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (79%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (76%); BONDS (75%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



472 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
The Reaction Far Exceeded The Action

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON 

 BODY:
NOW that we have an actual transcript of what Bobby Valentine told business students at the University of Pennsylvania last week, we discover that his most incendiary comments were appropriately reserved for baseball economics.
According to yesterday's edition of The Daily Pennsylvanian, Valentine advocates the building of one new baseball stadium in New York, to be used jointly by the Yankees and Mets. 
 "This would get me in a lot of trouble with my owner," Valentine reportedly told the students. "I don't think there's any way the city of New York and the public is going to co-venture two buildings in excess of a billion dollars for these rich kids that run around with baseballs and rich owners that make a lot of money."
Fire him? For such fair-minded candor, Valentine should get honorary membership to the city's planning board.
Oh, Valentine fired off a few zingers about Mets past and present. He astutely observed that Bobby Bonilla "found his stroke and lost 45 pounds." He said that "some would say" Benny Agbayani could do more with 600 at-bats than (not by name) Derek Bell. He shockingly said he supported the signing of the Japanese reliever Kazuhiro Sasaki last winter.
 As John McEnroe would say, big deal. Even Brad34, whoever he is, e-pologized for spreading the v-mail out of context. And unless there is a video out there of Valentine choking a student-economist, Steve Phillips owes one to his manager, lest he be judged by the same flimsy standard that moved him to fly off to Pittsburgh, on a wing and a Web site posting.
It isn't as if the Mets' general manager hasn't been caught in his own little web. Based on Phillips's past dalliances that embarrassed the organization far more than the manager ever has, and required a temporary leave of absence, should the Mets conduct an investigation the next time he is spotted in conversation with a female employee at the office water cooler?
"I needed to get clarification," Phillips insisted yesterday, in a continued assault on dot.com sense.
The minute Phillips landed in Pittsburgh last Friday, he authenticated a voice in a vacuum. He made the story hotter than it ever had to be, without even bothering with a transcript or tape.
Unless he doesn't own a telephone or all of his scouting is this complete, the only explanation is that Phillips flew off to pursue his own agenda, relative to his fragile coexistence with Valentine. So who was wearing the disguise this time? "If it became a big deal, then it's a big deal," Valentine said yesterday. "Just like the mustache thing."
What he meant was that these incidents, fairly or not, inevitably become part of the count that will probably lead to Phillips calling him out on strikes. Donning that disguise last season after being ejected from a game has now become part of Valentine's permanent record, as if having a little fun now and then is anathema to the integrity of the game.
Here, then, are the current regulatory terms of our national pastime: Androstenedione and other potentially dangerous performance enhancements -- allowed. Fake nose and mustache -- not allowed. "This is a tough place not to be perfect for me," Valentine said, sounding somewhat resigned.
He's far, far from perfect, but the simplistic casting of Joe Torre as Abel of the dugout and Valentine as Cain has been carried too far. While Valentine dispenses nuggets of opinion free of charge, Torre has saved a few less flattering items for one of his books. He has been a superb manager, an inspirational saga, but Torre generally becomes a lot more charming when he's engaging in a power chat with the likes of George Will.
 Valentine is clearly more insecure, less discriminating. He'd talk to a lamppost, if it had ears. On the subject of his unquestioned managerial skills, he can be tough to listen to, but when the Wharton School students invited him to speak, he committed what is practically a capital crime in contemporary sports. He said yes, and didn't ask for an appearance fee.
"I was foolish to be there in the first place, I guess," Valentine said.
He is who he is. Like him or not, you can't dispute the argument that the Mets were a sorry, insipid sell until he moved into the manager's office and began chatting them up. More than anyone, including Phillips, he has given them the effrontery to reclaim their share of the baseball audience in New York.
"I know this is the entertainment industry," Phillips said of Valentine's knack for attention, "but my preference would always be to be a little duller than what we are."
He's one to talk.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Phillips (Barton Silverman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS BASEBALL (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY; PHILLIPS, STEVE; VALENTINE, BOBBY HARVEY GENE PHILLIPS (59%); ROBERTO MARTIN ANTONIO 'BOBBY' BONILLA (55%); JOHN PATRICK MCENROE JR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



473 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Janitors Struggle at the Edges of Silicon Valley's Success

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif.

 BODY:
From 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. each night, Guadalupe Herrera cleans offices at that pinnacle of high-tech success, Cisco Systems, and then she heads home to the garage where she, her husband and two sons live.
When Maria Godinez returns late each night from her $8-an-hour janitor's job at Sun Microsystems, she slips into the bedroom she shares with her husband and five children: part of a single-family house where four families and 22 people live. 
 Rosalba Ceballos, who also lives in a garage, vacuums carpets and cleans bathrooms at another Silicon Valley success story, KLA-Tencor, but because her rent comes to three-fourths of that job's monthly pay she juggles two other jobs to support herself and her three children.
High-flying companies like Cisco and Sun can rightfully boast that they have created a new class of employees -- stock option millionaires -- but they have given rise to another class of workers as well: the invisible toilers, for the most part janitors, who earn too little to afford decent housing in a booming region.
"It's not good that these companies are making so much money, while they're benefiting from the low wages they pay us," said Mrs. Herrera, whose husband works as a $7-an-hour janitor at a nearby nursing home. "It's not fair that they do this with us. In reality, we need more."
The janitors, almost all of them immigrants from Mexico or Central America, many of them here illegally, are whipsawed by two powerful forces: the influx of immigrants is putting downward pressures on wages while the region's red-hot economy is pushing housing costs skyward. As a result, the rent that many janitors pay for garages usually exceeds half their monthly take-home pay and often equals what people elsewhere in the country pay for a two-bedroom apartment.
Many high-technology companies said they do not have any responsibility for their janitors' wages or living conditions. The janitors, company officials say, are not their employees, but rather those of cleaning contractors hired by the electronics companies that have made this region symbolize the New Economy.
Kern Beare, a spokesman for KLA-Tencor, declined to discuss the janitors' situation, saying, "The janitors are not our employees, and we don't comment upon other companies' employees."
Mike Garcia, president of a union local that represents thousands of California janitors, called the companies' position indefensible, insisting that they were hiding behind subcontracting rules to dodge their responsibilities to the people who empty their wastebaskets and dust their shelves. Whether the janitors work directly or indirectly for them, Mr. Garcia said, Silicon Valley stars like Cisco and Sun have a moral obligation to make sure these workers do not live in poverty.
"These companies have a heavy responsibility," said Mr. Garcia, president of Local 1877 of the Service Employees International Union. "They can try to hide behind their cleaning contractors, but what they should really do is take responsibility for the plight of their janitors and their poorest workers. They should give them a fair wage that will lift them out of poverty."
Mr. Garcia, a leader in his union's Justice for Janitors campaign, said something was wildly askew when Silicon Valley's elite raked in millions in stock options, while the workers who hold the grimiest, least desirable jobs earned so little that they lived in garages.
Amy Dean, director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Silicon Valley office, said, "Unfortunately, the New Economy is looking a lot like an hourglass with a lot of high-paid, high-tech jobs at the high end and an enormous proliferation of low-wage service jobs at the bottom."
With rents here rivaling those in New York City, many janitors are relegated to squalid situations: eight people from two separate families sharing a small trailer; nine adults living in a one-bedroom apartment; a janitor sleeping on the floor of a friend's metal-working shop; a janitor who says the single small window in the garage she lives in makes her think she is living in a prison cell.
Although Ms. Ceballos was reluctant to show her windowless garage to a visitor, she ultimately opened it up. Behind a clutter of unpacked boxes was a bunk bed, with a queen-sized bottom, where she sleeps with her 1-year-old daughter, Alejandra, and a twin bed on top, where her other daughters, ages 3 and 7, sleep. Her 22-year-old brother, a janitor who helps her make ends meet, sleeps on a mattress they place on the floor each night.
Ms. Ceballos moved into the garage in February because she could no longer afford the $1,300-a-month house she was living in after her husband left her. At $750 a month, the garage, which is rented out illegally, is a huge financial strain since the take-home pay from her night cleaning job is $954 a month.
"It's very difficult for the kids," she said. "They really can't play inside, but at least they can play in the backyard."
Shoulders slumped and puffy bags under her eyes, Ms. Ceballos seemed nearly defeated. After returning from work each night at 3 a.m., she goes to bed, and wakes up four-and-a-half hours later to prepare 7-year-old Carmen for school. Most days she also works as a cleaner at Macy's or the San Jose Convention Center.
Her finances took a big hit this winter when each of her daughters had the flu, forcing her to visit the doctor three times. Lacking health insurance, she had to pay $195, nearly a week's take-home pay.
Her immediate dream is a job that pays more than the $6.50 an hour she earns working for a nonunion cleaning contractor.
"What I'm really hoping for is a job that pays $8," she said, wanting in particular a unionized cleaning job with health coverage. "I can barely make it right now. It's not fair, we work so hard and they don't give us the wages or benefits we deserve."
For most of her eight-hour shift, she said, echoing many other janitors, there is nobody to talk to, and her company prohibits her from listening to the radio while cleaning.
Many janitors are looking with hope to contract negotiations in which Mr. Garcia's union local, which represents 5,700 Silicon Valley janitors, including ones at Cisco, Sun and Hewlett-Packard, is asking for raises that would lift the cleaners' pay to $12.50 an hour after three years, from the current $8.
Although that would be a 56 percent raise, union officials say it is reasonable because at $12.50 an hour, the janitors would still earn considerably less than their unionized counterparts in San Francisco and New York, where living costs are not much higher. Mr. Garcia's union local has organized the strike by nearly 8,500 janitors in Los Angeles, who are battling for a hefty raise, asserting that their current pay of below $8 an hour is too low to live on.
Ridiculing the proposal for a $12.50 wage, many cleaning companies assert that they need to keep wages low so they can win contracts through competitive bidding.
Richard Sanchez, president of Acme Building Maintenance Company, acknowledged that low wages hurt the janitors, but he said that if a unionized company like his granted large raises, then nonunion companies might underbid him.
Officials at many companies, including Sun and 3Com, declined to discuss the janitors' plight, but some executives said the cleaners' living conditions were an embarrassment that needed to be addressed.
"People should not live in garages regardless of where they work," said Steven Langdon, a Cisco spokesman. "The success of Silicon Valley has brought great things to many people, but for some it has made life more difficult. Wages are important, and Cisco hopes and expects that our vendors will pay the people in their employ fairly."
With the area's housing prices up 60 percent in five years, Cisco has joined government agencies and other companies in an effort to build affordable housing. But that effort, focusing on units in the $200,000 range, is geared more to $45,000-a-year teachers and middle managers than to $16,000-a-year janitors.
For Alicia Sosa, a janitor at Sun Microsystems, a $200,000 house would be as out of reach as Bill Gates's mansion. For now, she shares a bedroom with her husband, her 1-year-old son and her two daughters, 5 and 6, who somehow sleep together in a crib.
When one child is sick at night, it keeps the whole family awake. Mrs. Sosa and her husband never have any privacy, she said, and they see each other just a half hour a day, after he returns from work and before she leaves for her job.
"In Mexico, people tell you all these great stories about the United States, that there is money on the ground that you can grab with your own hands," she said. "People never tell you how hard it is to make it here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Isabel Cadena, a janitor in San Jose, Calif., earns about $8 an hour. A converted garage is all she and her husband can afford, she said.; Rosalba Ceballos, a nonunion janitor in Silicon Valley, earns less than $8 an hour. She lives in a converted garage with her three children and her brother, Arturo, left, and juggles two other jobs to support her family. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (75%); KLAC (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (75%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (75%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (75%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); KLA-TENCOR CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES; HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; ILLEGAL ALIENS; MEXICAN-AMERICANS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; WAGES AND SALARIES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES WAGES & SALARIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (86%); ELECTRONICS (78%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); FAMILY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); REFUGEES (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



474 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stock Prices Rally Sharply, Easing Fears of a Collapse
Stock prices stabilized and then soared in the United States after plunging in Asia and sliding in early European trading. The recovery eased fears of a collapsing stock market that had intensified after the Nasdaq composite index lost a quarter of its value last week. 
 The Nasdaq composite index climbed 217.87 points, or 6.6 percent, to 3,539.16. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 44.88 points, or 3.3 percent, to 1,401.44, and the Dow Jones industrial average rose 276.74 points, or 2.7 percent, to 10,582.51. Page A1.
 
Profit Up at Financial Companies
The sell-off in technology stocks in late March hardly put a dent in the earnings of some big financial-services companies. Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Charles Schwab all reported their most profitable first quarters ever. C2.
 
Ford Posts 5.1% Rise in Earnings
Brisk sales of luxury cars and sport utility vehicles in the United States helped lift Ford Motor's first-quarter earnings 5.1 percent, above forecasts, even though its overseas operations continued to lose money, the company said. Shares of Ford rose $4.8125, to $57.0625, although experts said the increase mainly reflected a continued reaction to the company's announcement on Friday that it would spin off its auto parts subsidiary, Visteon, and pay a special dividend totaling $10 billion. C6.
 
L'Oreal Plans to Acquire Kiehl's
After 149 years as a small but intensely popular independent cosmetics company, Kiehl's has agreed to be acquired by L'Oreal, the French beauty products giant. C2.
 
Finance Officials Vow Poverty Fight
The finance ministers and central bank governors who oversee the World Bank, trying to show sensitivity to poverty as protesters braved rain and an impenetrable police force outside, pledged to pay more attention to globalization's victims and commit "unlimited money" to fight AIDS in poor countries. A1.
 
Britain May Sell a Research Unit
Risking a breach with the United States military establishment and braving the swings of an uncertain stock market, the British government said that it would sell a 75 percent stake in a secret military research unit, the Defense Evaluation and Research Agency, in a public offering. But in announcing the plan on a day when the British stock market fell sharply, the defense minister, Geoff Hoon, indicated that the timing would depend on the likely valuation of an offering and could be delayed. C4.
 
Bank Earnings Beat Expectations
Bank of America and Bank of New York reported first-quarter profits that beat expectations, powered by surging stocks. After last week's sell-off, however, they might be hard-pressed to post similarly strong future results. Earnings rose 17 percent at Bank of America and 6.8 percent at Bank of New York. C6.
 
Profit Increases 18% at Eli Lilly
Eli Lilly, maker of the world's top-selling antidepressant, Prozac, said that its first-quarter profit rose 18 percent on higher sales of diabetes medicines and a schizophrenia drug. C2.
 
Mexican Farmers Protest Imports
Mexican dairy farmers are growing angry over powdered milk imports from the United States that they say are filling supermarkets and decimating local production. C4.
 
Ulster Petroleums Agrees to Sale
Ulster Petroleums of Calgary in Canada thwarted a hostile takeover attempt by Hunt Oil of Dallas, agreeing to a richer $45 million cash-and-stock offer from a crosstown rival, Anderson Exploration. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,582.51 up 276.74
Nasdaq composite -- 3,539.16 up 217.87
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.93% up 0.15
The euro -- $0.9538 down 0.0058
The dollar -- 104.26 yen down 0.83
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Housing Construction
March figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.
Expected: -2.4%
 
Graph tracks the daily closing price of Ford Motor shares since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: OR (PAR) (95%); OR (BIT) (95%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); SCHW (NYSE) (56%); VC (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (56%); VISTEON CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); DIVIDENDS (79%); COSMETICS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (74%); TOILETRIES MFG (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); POLICE FORCES (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); AIDS & HIV (50%); 

PERSON: CHARLES R SCHWAB (56%); DAVID FORD (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



475 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Chicago Exchanges Are Losing Stature as Havens

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 17

 BODY:
In times of market turmoil, investors have often turned to Chicago to manage their risk at some of the city's pioneering financial exchanges.
But these days, many of those exchanges are in turmoil and the city of Chicago is, if not at risk, perhaps somewhat diminished in stature as a center of the derivatives trade, according to financial experts. 
 The growth of electronic trading and the popularity of the over-the-counter derivatives market has slowly eroded the city's hold on the futures and options business. And just about every week there are reports of the exchanges' chaotic attempts to respond to those changes.
On Friday, for instance, the Chicago Board of Trade -- the giant futures and options exchange -- said that Thomas R. Donovan, its longtime president, had resigned after more than a year of feuding with the board's chairman over leadership issues.
The resignation of Mr. Donovan, who received a reported $10 million severance package, was just the latest blow to the futures and options industry here, which has engaged in internecine warfare within the city while also trying to battle competitive threats from electronic and international exchanges.
"There has been a long-term secular drift here," said Richard Sandor, who helped introduce financial derivatives at the Chicago Board of Trade. "Now, the viability of the Chicago exchanges depends upon how quickly they can adapt."
To be sure, retail brokerage firms have faced similar challenges from online brokers. And the nation's largest stock exchanges have been facing even stiffer competition from low-cost electronic trading networks that have grown into huge players in the Nasdaq stock markets.
Yet no segment of the financial industry seems to be undergoing the kind of brutal and often public battles that are now being waged in Chicago, where agricultural trading long ago gave way to pioneering efforts to create financial instruments that help manage risk, like bond and stock market index futures.
The Chicago Board of Trade -- for decades the largest futures exchange in the world -- seems to be taking the brunt of the criticism here. There was a heated election battle, a war within the leadership ranks between Mr. Donovan and David Brennan, a longtime soybean trader who was elected chairman in 1997. And confusion about how the Board is going to move into the electronic arena just years after spending nearly $180 million on a gigantic trading floor, one of the largest in the world.
Last year, volume at the Chicago Board of Trade fell more than 20 percent and the exchange lost its title as the world's largest futures exchange to a nine-year-old international exchange called Eurex, which was created out of a merger between the German and Swiss derivative exchanges.
And last month, partly because trading in the 30-year Treasury bond has dropped off, volume at the Board of Trade ranked third in its own city, Chicago. This put it behind the Chicago Board Options Exchange and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in the number of contracts traded.
The board is now facing tough budgetary decisions because of the huge debt from its new trading floor, and $50 million it agreed to invest to create a joint venture with Eurex.
"The finances are strained but they are being managed," said Patrick Catania, executive vice president at the Board of Trade. "As long as the volumes are in this ballpark, we'll be okay."
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the C.B.O.E. are faring much better, but they are also facing competitive pressures from electronic trading, overseas derivatives business and new regulatory initiatives, like a push by the Securities and Exchange Commission to make the options markets more competitive with new electronic formats.
"That's why all the exchanges are re-examining everything," said Ellen Resnick, a spokeswoman at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. "There are new competitors out there and so we want to move with internet speed."
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange is trying to move ahead with a demutualization plan that would raise money and allow it to move quickly, and so is the C.B.O.E., which insists that its business has been soaring in all the chaos.
"Our side of the business is phenomenal; we're up 70 percent from a year ago," said William J. Brodsky, chairman of the C.B.O.E. "Clearly, the Eurex exchange has done phenomenally well, but the Merc, the C.B.O.E. and the Board have been doing three million contracts a day -- that's not insubstantial."
Still, Mr. Brodsky acknowledges that Chicago is facing real competition from new exchanges and new initiatives meant to create still newer exchanges.
"We're all being challenged but it's always the case that the one who invented it is being challenged," he said. "I think what's happening is we're being challenged by electronic markets and everyone is dealing with it differently. We voted two weeks ago to build our own electronic system."
Merton Miller, the Nobel prize-winning economist who teaches at the University of Chicago, says the big three financial exchanges here have been falling behind because of advances in electronic trading and the growth of the over-the-counter derivatives market, which is not subject to the same regulations.
"The exchanges have to carry so much water on their back, they can't keep up with the over-the-counter market," he said in an interview today.
"And now, little by little, electronics is taking over. So they may still innovate, but it won't be like it was 10 years ago."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Wetherell, left, and Robert Glaser (Associated Press); (Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "The Market Giveth and Taketh Away"
Despite yesterday's market rally, most technology stocks are well down from their peaks. For the founders and chief executives of some of those companies who have the bulk of their wealth tied up in their stocks, that has meant huge losses, at least on paper. Here are some of those executives. Figures are based on latest proxy statements and the number of shares beneficially owned.
 
Michael Saylor, Microstrategy
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: March 10, 2000
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): $14.5
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): $1.3
CHANGE: -90.8
 
Robert Glaser, RealNetworks
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: Feb. 11, 20000
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 5.4
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 1.9
CHANGE: -64.6
 
David Wetherell, CMGI
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: Jan. 3, 2000
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 5.8
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 2.3
CHANGE: -60.2
 
Jeffrey Bezos, Amazon.com
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: Dec. 9, 1999
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 13.3
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 5.5
CHANGE: -58.4
 
Gary Winnick, Global Crossing
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: May 13, 1999
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 5.6
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 2.4
CHANGE: -56.5
 
David Filo, Yahoo!
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: Jan. 4, 2000
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 11.7
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 5.4
CHANGE: -54.3
 
Jerry Yang, Yahoo!
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: Jan. 4, 2000
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 11.4
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 5.2
CHANGE: -54.3
 
Pierre Omidyar, eBay
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: March 27, 2000
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 8.9
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 5.0
CHANGE: -43.8
 
Philip Anschutz, Qwest
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: March 3, 2000
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 18.7
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 11.6
CHANGE: -38.2
 
Theodore Waitt, Gateway
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: Nov. 15, 1999
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 9.7
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 6.0
CHANGE: -37.8
 
William H. Gates, Microsoft
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: Dec. 30, 1999
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 88.9
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 56.0
CHANGE: -36.9
 
Steve Ballmer, Microsoft
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: Dec. 30, 1999
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 28.7
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 18.1
CHANGE: -36.9
 
Paul Allen, Microsoft
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: Dec. 30, 1999
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 26.1
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 16.5
CHANGE: -36.9
 
Michael Dell, Dell Computer
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: March 22, 2000
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 20.4
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 16.7
CHANGE: -18.3
 
Lawrence J. Ellison, Oracle
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: March 28, 2000
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 62.1
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 51.6
CHANGE: -16.9
 
Gordon Moore, Intel
DATE OF PEAK PRICE: March 22, 2000
VALUE AT HIGH (BIL.): 25.8
CURRENT VALUE (BIL.): 21.9
CHANGE: -15.2
(Source: Bloomberg Business News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (95%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE; CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE; CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; EUREX (SWISS-GERMAN BOURSE) CME GROUP INC (95%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE; CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE; CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE; EUREX (SWISS-GERMAN BOURSE) CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; INDUSTRY PROFILES; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY FUTURES (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); BOARD CHANGES (74%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (69%); SEVERANCE PAY (67%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%); ONLINE TRADING (58%); AGRICULTURE (50%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID; DONOVAN, THOMAS R DAVID FILO (71%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (68%); MICHAEL DELL (67%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (59%); PAUL ALLEN (59%); JERRY YANG (59%); STEVEN A BALLMER (54%); PHILIP ANSCHUTZ (52%); BILL GATES (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



476 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Sporting a Wall St. Hangover, Asian Markets Fall Sharply

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, April 17

 BODY:
The sell-off that engulfed Wall Street last week spread through Asia today, devastating stock markets and erasing investor wealth in some of the most severe declines since the global crash of 1987.
But the mood was less grim this time because much of Asia is climbing out of a recession that hammered share prices a couple of years ago. Few people expect the current market turbulence to snuff out the recovery. Many of the region's markets were sharply higher in early trading on Tuesday. 
 Still, the extent of the decline was hard enough to scare some politicians back into old habits. In Japan, where the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues fell nearly 7 percent, its worst loss in 12 1/2 years, government officials said they would recommend putting a trillion yen, or almost $10 billion, into the market to buy shares if prices fell much further. Such measures were used to keep Japan's markets steady in the past but have since been blamed for helping create a financial bubble that has taken more than a decade to deflate.
The Nikkei's 1,426.04-point slide, its fifth-biggest drop ever in both percentage and point terms, was aggravated by a change today in the index that increased its weighting in favor of volatile technology issues. Thirty stocks of mainly smokestack companies were removed from the index and replaced with stocks of high-technology businesses, an attempt to make the index reflect Japan's new economy.
But technology stocks were the hardest hit in the sell-off today and helped drag down the Nikkei. At the same time, selling by index funds of the 30 stocks removed further depressed the overall market.
The Nikkei index, though, closed at 19,008.64, back to where it was as recently as late January and well within the range it has traded since people started debating whether the country's economy is really recovering.
Economists across Asia focused on the positive side: while an extended market decline could dampen American demand for Asian exports, the region is far better prepared today to handle such a slump than it was even a year ago.
Most countries have emerged from bruising recessions that followed the financial crisis of 1997-98. And the regional shakeout left the economies healthier. The growth they registered last year was of a higher quality -- driven more by domestic demand and less by debt and corruption -- than the high Asian growth rates of the past. Increasing trade among Asian nations has made exports less dependent on the United States market than they once were.
"If this hits U.S. and European demand, it could slow down the pace of the region's recovery," said Joe Lo, senior economist for northern Asia at Citibank in Hong Kong, "but it won't send Asia back into recession."
Across the continent today, investors dumped technology stocks in favor of old economy companies. Technology-heavy markets were hit the hardest.
In South Korea, the Kospi index tumbled 11.71 percent, its biggest one-day loss ever, led by Samsung Electronics. The Korean market is now the worst-performing Asian market this year, down close to one-third in dollar terms since the end of December.
Hong Kong's benchmark index suffered its second-worst one-day point loss, falling 1,380.4, or 8.55 percent, to 14,762.37. Shares in China Telecom, which last week announced a 30 percent drop in profit in 1999, lost 15 percent of their value. Pacific Century CyberWorks, the darling of Internet stocks in Asia, fell 14 percent, endangering the company's plan to buy Cable and Wireless HKT.
In Singapore, the Straits Times index fell 8.69 percent. Electronics account for two-thirds of total exports.
China's markets registered a more muted reaction, partly because of strict capital controls that help keep its economy insulated from overseas markets.
The currency, the Chinese yuan, is convertible for only a narrow range of transactions, most related to trade. And the bulk of listings in the two stock markets -- one in Shanghai and the other in the southern city of Shenzhen -- are off-limits to foreigners.
China's "B shares," denominated in foreign currency and open to overseas investors, bore the brunt of today's selling: Shanghai's Class B share index fell nearly 4 percent while its counterpart in Shenzhen fell 3.19 percent. The rest of the markets registered more moderate losses. Shanghai's Class A share index lost 2.09 percent, and Shenzhen Class A shares fell 2.22 percent.
The capital controls helped China skate through Asia's financial crisis two years ago without serious economic dislocations. And they are likely to protect China from the current market gyrations, economists say. "The Chinese economy is relatively immune to this market downturn because external factors account for only a small part of China's economic growth," said Joe Zhang, head of China research at Warburg Dillon Read in Hong Kong.
Taiwan's market was a rare bright spot, with the benchmark index rising 1.43 percent. The market is the only one in Asia to trade on Saturday and so had already lost 5.4 percent in reaction to Wall Street's dive on Friday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Singapore futures trader appeared caught up momentarily in the market frenzy yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (50%); C (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (96%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); TRENDS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); STOCK INDEX CHANGES (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); INDEX FUNDS (69%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



477 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Bracing For a Deluge, Getting a Trickle;
Reaction Proves Calm To Friday's Big Sell-Off

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
In Owings Mills, Md., yesterday morning, T. Rowe Price prepared for a major accident. Expecting a flood of nervous phone calls, the mutual fund giant put 200 employees on standby to support its usual staff of 100 telephone representatives.
But by noon it was clear that the company was more nervous than its investors. Wayne D. O'Melia, president of the service operation, said that only about 50 of these extra hands were needed because calling volume ran only about 10 percent above normal. "This is a nonevent compared with '87," Mr. O'Melia said. 
 Like Mr. O'Melia, financial professionals and individual investors everywhere yesterday seemed to be awaiting a disaster that did not come. From the floor of the New York Stock Exchange to the headquarters of the National Association of Securities Dealers in Washington, the mood in the morning was tense.
But as investors who fled the market last week stepped up to buy again yesterday afternoon, the weekend's awful warnings faded and Wall Street's naturally bullish bias returned -- at least for the moment. By day's end, many professionals were even saying that last week's plunge, although painful, might have done some good by ending a speculative bubble and clearing the way for a steady, but slower, advance.
"We are seeing a whole different side of the market that we didn't see Thursday or Friday," said Joseph N. Cangemi, a floor supervisor on the New York Stock Exchange with Francis P. Maglio & Company. "You are seeing a bounce off the bottom with the fresh money coming in."
"This is healthy," he added. "Today is a good reaction. There was a lot of excessive value in the market. It needed to self-correct, to even itself out. People can't keep buying so one-dimensionally and expect a return with no risk."
In Washington, Patrick Campbell, chief operating officer of the National Association of Securities Dealers, arrived yesterday prepared for another rough day. Instead, the data flashing on more than a dozen video screens in the windowless room signaled an orderly morning on the Nasdaq.
The biggest scrum Mr. Campbell saw yesterday was outside the N.A.S.D.'s Washington headquarters among people protesting against the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Inside the N.A.S.D. building on K Street, away from the sirens and helicopters and police bullhorns, the "war room," where top N.A.S.D. officials keep watch on the Nasdaq, was a relative oasis of calm, Mr. Campbell said.
Looking back later, Mr. Campbell said, "A lot of the first hour was the emotional part." But once the market absorbed selling by investors who had to raise cash to pay off loans used to buy stocks, buyers were lured back by the prospect of strong earnings reports and a fundamentally sound economy.
"I think things have stabilized here," he said.
Not that the morning went perfectly. At just past 10, James Raphalian, a stock trader for SG Cowen in Manhattan, suddenly found himself unable to do his job because of a computer problem -- on a day that many investors thought might set records for volatility.
Quickly, Cowen stopped making trades in many stocks, worried that it might lose money offering outdated prices in a fast-moving market. "Explain to me real carefully what in God's name is going on here," Mr. Raphalian said to a worried technician in the middle of Cowen's trading floor, a three-layered pit of voices and computer screens.
But the crisis did not last. Within minutes, Cowen had fixed its computers, and Mr. Raphalian could trade shares to his heart's content. And trade he did.
At T. Rowe Price, which manages $180 billion in eight million accounts, some callers did switch investments from the firm's science and technology mutual fund to less aggressive funds, and some asked that automatic investments taken from bank or from money market accounts be deferred this month.
But phone representatives also reported nearly as many bargain hunters as sellers, including one Texas man who bought T. Rowe Price's science and technology fund on Friday and eagerly did so again yesterday. "A lot of people are just going to hold out -- hang in there," said April Blahut, a telephone representative who fielded a steady succession of calls with aplomb.
Relatively few people commented on the state of the market, Ms. Blahut said, while on Friday many callers had asked, "Hey, what's going on?" After handling about a dozen calls between 10:30 and 11:30, Ms. Blahut reported that just one customer cashed in shares. In contrast, Ms. Blahut said she had more than 25 redemptions during her Friday shift.
At the T. Rowe Price walk-up counter in a neighboring building, Derek Dry, manager of the investor center, said he expected about 225 customers today, about three times normal. But most people were setting up or adding to retirement accounts and the rest were split evenly between buyers of either stock funds or money market funds.
"Nobody's selling," Mr. Dry said.
Telephones were also relatively quiet at Baron Capital, a New York money management firm. And Morty Schaja, Baron's president, found himself less nervous than he had been after the 1987 crash, when the Dow Jones industrial average fell 22.6 percent in a single day. "Unlike in 1987, I clearly didn't feel the world was coming to the end," he said.
The difference is that the United States economy is far stronger now than it was 13 years ago, Mr. Schaja said. "Now it's a valuation issue, it's an adjustment," he added.
In fact, Mr. Schaja expressed some relief at the recent declines, although his firm has not escaped losses. "All the attitude by the retail investor has been this new age, new world kind of investing," he said. "That psychology has to be broken. In the last year or so, we've been in a trader's environment."
The buying by individuals extended past mutual funds to stocks, according to Birinyi Associates, a stock market research firm. Individuals put about $850 million into New York Stock Exchange stocks, while institutions added around $450 million, with most of that coming in the last half-hour of trading, Mr. Birinyi said.
That bullishness extended to the West Coast, where countless employees of new-economy companies have grown rich on the market's long boom. At a San Jose, Calif., office of Charles Schwab, few investors seemed worried.
Nancy Coldwell, 49, vice president of marketing for Cohera, a start-up, said she had no plans to sell. "I think dumping out just makes it worse," Ms. Coldwell said. "And dumping out now, you're at the bottom, and I think that's just stupid."
In Seattle, John Keister, the president and co-founder of Go2Net, a network of Web sites, said he thought last week's sell-off would be "very healthy for the Internet industry."
Go2Net was hardly unscathed in the Nasdaq's tumble. Its shares plunged from $97 on March 27 to $47.875 on Friday, erasing more than $1.6 billion from its market valuation. But Mr. Keister said he believed his company would be able to handle a shakeout among Web sites, because unlike many young Internet companies, Go2Net is actually profitable on an operating basis. And yesterday its stock rose to $55.25.
Mr. Keister was less optimistic about the future of his money-losing competitors. "Not everyone should be a winner here," he said. "A lot of companies were, and still are, overvalued."
Meanwhile, Internet chat rooms were filled with a blend of hype and insults, with bulls regaining their swagger as Internet favorites like JDS Uniphase turned sharply higher in afternoon trading. "Shorts hope for a sell-off -- it's over," a day trader called "Stimemarket" wrote. "My broker says buy."
As trading closed at 4 p.m. with the Nasdaq up more than 6.6 percent, Mr. Raphalian, the head of Nasdaq trading for SG Cowen, breathed a sigh of relief at the bad day that he -- and investors everywhere -- had dodged. "Money came back into the market," he said. "We're a lot better than how we started out."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: April Blahut, above, a telephone representative with T. Rowe Price in Owings Mills, Md. James Raphalian, left, shouts orders on the SG Cowen trading floor in New York. (Above, Marty Katz for The New York Times; below, Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Old Reliable"
The stocks of traditional technology companies, like those in the AMEX Computer Technology index, a capitalization-weighted index of big PC industry companies, have been less volatile than the stocks of Internet technology companies, like those in Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's dollar-weighted Internet index.
 
Graph compares the Morgan Stanley Internet Index and the Amex Computer Technology Index since January.
 
PRICE-TO-EARNINGS RATIOS
MORGAN STANLEY INTERNET INDEX: Negative
AMEX COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY INDEX: 60.95
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Old Technology Stocks Back in Fashion"
Before the Nasdaq composite index peaked on March 10, investors were snapping up shares in new technology companies. Now investors are turning to companies with more established records and real earnings. Here is a performance comparison of companies in the Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Internet index and the Amex computer technology index. Four of the companies, Microsoft, Oracle, Sun Microsystems and Cisco Systems were in both indexes.
 
MORGAN STANLEY INTERNET INDEX
 
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO:
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE:
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10:
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17:
 
Internet infrastructure services
Covad
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 30.90
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +72.3%
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -54.8%
 
Exodus
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 765.50
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +85.3
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -36.5
 
InterNAP
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 18.83
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +5.3
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -67.1
 
MCI WorldCom
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 30.2
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 2.23
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -12.0
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -14.1
 
Internet infrastructure
 
Cisco Systems
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 151.1
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 27.73
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +27.3
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -2.5
 
Inktomi
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 17.02
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +90.7
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -45.7
 
Sun Microsystems
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 97.0
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 24.97
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +21.6
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -9.9
 
Verisign
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 3,164.3
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 38.41
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +25.7
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -53.8
 
Internet consulting
 
DoubleClick
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 18.60
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -7.0
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -49.1
 
Scient
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 26.00
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -40.0
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -72.0
 
 
Internet portals
 
America Online
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 217.6
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 21.42
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -22.7
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: +0.2
 
Excite@Home
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 0.97
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -33.3
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -28.7
 
Yahoo
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 326.8
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 11.01
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -17.7
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -35.8
 
Internet vertical portals
 
Charles Schwab
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 47.7
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 15.19
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +38.6
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -20.8
 
Cnet
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 2.58
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +19.4
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -63.7
 
Healtheon/WebMD
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 20.54
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +9.4
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -52.7
 
Intuit
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 71.1
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 3.30
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -12.1
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -42.0
 
 
Internet commerce
 
Amazon.com
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 61.00
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -12.2
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -29.6
 
eBay
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 1,302.3
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 21.81
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +54.4
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -25.9
 
Priceline.com
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 21.19
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +99.5
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -44.9
 
 
Business to business software
 
Ariba
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 89.56
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +72.2
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -64.3
 
Vignette
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 19.11
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +82.2
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -52.7
 
Business to business commerce
 
Ventro
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 6.35
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +63.3
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -86.6
 
VerticalNet
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 13.47
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +66.6
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -75.4
 
Multi-sector Internet companies
 
CMGI
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 38.0
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 3.12
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -1.4
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -86.6
 
Internet Capital Group
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 7.04
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -15.6
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -75.4
 
AMEX COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY INDEX
 
Computer equipment
3Com
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 32.3
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 3.36
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +46.7%
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -43.3%
 
EMC
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 112.7
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 26.13
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +19.1
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: - 4.3
 
Storage Technology
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 44.2
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 1.36
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -34.9
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: + 3.1
 
Computer chips
 
Adv. Micro Devices
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 5.45
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +79.7
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: +39.7
 
Applied Material
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 75.2
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 15.70
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +51.6
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: + 0.1
 
Intel
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 53.0
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 12.60
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +46.0
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: + 2.3
 
Micron Technology
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 69.9
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 6.57
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +36.2
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: + 7.2
 
Motorola
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 49.0
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 4.37
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +18.9
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -33.4
 
National Semi.
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 84.4
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 6.52
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +63.5
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -21.6
 
Texas Instruments
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 72.7
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 13.10
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +87.1
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -17.6
 
Computers
 
Apple Computer
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 44.2
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 4.68
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +22.3
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: - 1.5
 
Compaq
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 91.6
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 3.03
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +5.5
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: - 7.0
 
Dell Computer
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 70.7
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 23.65
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +0.5
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: - 4.9
 
Gateway
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 35.7
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 8.33
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -13.3
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -16.0
 
Hewlett-Packard
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 43.3
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 6.93
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +29.2
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: - 9.0
 
I.B.M.
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 30.2
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 9.85
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: - 2.4
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: + 6.3
 
Software
 
Automatic Data
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 38.9
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 6.80
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -18.1
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: + 5.7
 
Computer Assoc.
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 19.8
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 9.28
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: - 4.9
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -21.2
 
Microsoft
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 47.4
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 11.01
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -13.5
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -24.9
 
Novell
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 35.9
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 4.04
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -21.4
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -37.1
 
Oracle
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 133.6
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 53.30
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +45.7
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: - 8.4
 
Silicon Graphics
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: --
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 1.00
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: +30.3
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: -36.4
 
Computer services
 
Computer Sciences
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 31.3
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 4.38
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: -14.8
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: - 6.4
 
Electronic Data Syst.
PRICE/EARNINGS RATIO: 33.8
PRICE TO BOOK VALUE: 6.67
SHARE PRICE CHANGE
 DEC. 31 '99 TO MARCH 10: - 8.1
 MARCH 10 TO APRIL 17: + 5.5
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (82%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); VERTICAL MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



478 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Struggling to Fill Ranks, Army Moves to Find Ways to Keep Its Officers

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17

 BODY:
Complaining about confusing missions, low morale and the stress of seemingly constant separations from their families, junior officers are leaving the Army in such record numbers that the Army's leaders created two panels today to figure out how to keep them in the ranks.
After the latest Army figures showed a continuing drop in the number of lieutenants and captains willing to make a career of the Army, Gen. Eric K. Shinseki, the Army chief of staff, commissioned a survey of 760 officers at the Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., asking them what issues were causing the exodus. 
 Their answers were collected by the college, but many officers privately passed them around in e-mail messages. Some said they often felt that the Army seemed to "rip" people out of their bases for missions that did not make sense.
Others questioned the loyalty of Army generals, saying "senior leaders will throw subordinates under the bus in a heartbeat to protect or advance their career," according to one e-mail message.
"Their focus is on short-impact fixes that make them look good and get them their next star," one soldier wrote.
None of these answers seemed to surprise General Shinseki, who had commissioned the survey before he spoke to the junior officers at Fort Leavenworth last month.
"There was nothing said that he hadn't heard before, but he wanted to get it right from the horse's mouth," a senior Army official said.
The shortage in junior officers means there will be fewer candidates for senior leadership positions, and, with the Army struggling to meet recruiting goals, it may also be difficult to find replacements for those junior officers.
Since the end of the cold war, the Army has shrunk by one-third while its deployments have increased by 300 percent, increasing the stress on the soldiers and the families. Those deployments included more peacekeeping missions and help with natural disasters which soldiers said were not what they had signed up for.
"We give soldiers expectations about doing exciting, war fighting type stuff and then we send them off to 'peacekeep' without fully explaining to them their mission," was one complaint in the e-mail messages. The substance of the survey was first reported in The Washington Post today.
Family members were especially irritated by what they considered an incomprehensible medical care system, by transfers every 18 months and by the shoddy housing in too many bases.
The booming economy makes it easier to leave in midcareer, but the young officers were adamant that the Army should not blame a strong job market for their dissatisfaction.
These comments were welcomed, said Brig. Gen. Bob Wood, the deputy commandant at Command and General Staff College, who will head one of the panels.
"The chief got exactly what he wanted: raw information and honest feedback," General Wood said.
That feedback will be included in position papers to help explain why the percentage of young officers willing to make the Army a career dropped to 35 percent last year from 52 percent in 1991. Non-commissioned officers are leaving at roughly the same rate.
But the Army is hardly alone in having a hard time holding onto its midcareer officers.
The Air Force continues to lose pilots to far better-paying commercial firms, even after offering them bonuses. The rate of pilot retention dropped to 41 percent in 1999 from 71 percent in 1997.
"We already had a retention summit this year," said Carol DeBattiste, under secretary of the Air Force. "We are cautiously optimistic but the job market is a major draw."
Ms. DeBattiste said that like the young Army officers, the midcareer Air Force officers said they wanted to spend more time with their families.
While the Navy said the rate of retention of young officers has improved in the first months of this year, a recent survey showed that only 1 in 10 junior officers wanted to stay and become a commander.
General Shinseki and Louis Caldera, the secretary of the Army, have asked for a full report from the two panels within three months after they begin work in May.
Lieut. Gen. Walter F. Ulmer of the Army, who is retired, wrote both the Army's study of similar problems from the Vietnam War and a recent private two-year survey of morale problems in the military.
While General Ulmer said the Army was a "dramatically better Army" than it was in those days, he did find some similarities in the problems the junior officers faced.
"There are great stresses to the institution today that are similar to those after the Vietnam War," he said in a telephone interview. "There are concerns about morale, lack of trust in Washington's policies, and a concern about whether all the missions are worth the sacrifice." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%); AIR FORCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AIR FORCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KANSAS, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMIES ARMIES (94%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MILITARY RECRUITING (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); PEACEKEEPING (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); COLD WAR (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%); 

PERSON: BECKER, ELIZABETH ERIC K SHINSEKI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



479 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16
 
World Trade Officials Vow To Press AIDS Fight
The finance ministers and central bank governors who oversee the World Bank pledged more attention to globalization's victims and to commit "unlimited money" to fight AIDS in poor countries. They also promised to accelerate debt relief for the developing world and press rich nations to import farm and clothing products from the poorest ones duty free. The action, in Washington, came as street protests against the bank and the I.M.F. wound down. A1
 
U.S. Arms for Taiwan
The Clinton administration has decided to sell Taiwan upgraded versions of three kinds of missiles and a long-range radar system but not, for now, four high-tech destroyers. The decision was intended to avoid further tensions between China and Taiwan. Senior Congressional Republicans rejected that, saying a stronger weapons package was warranted. A1 

Opposing Clinton on China
The House Democratic leader, Richard A. Gephardt, intends to oppose granting China permanent normal trading privileges, according to several people familiar with his decision. The House is scheduled to vote on the issue the week of May 22. A1
 
French Report on Jews' Losses
A long-awaited study of assets seized from Jews in wartime France said the Nazis and French collaborators stole far more than previously thought. But the report also cited extensive efforts after the war to return property or reimburse Jews. A4
 
Russian Leader Visits Britain
President-elect Vladimir V. Putin, in his first visit to the West since winning office, courted businessmen in London, met with the Queen and offered advice on the stock market. A12
 
Italian's Resignation Rejected
Prime Minister Massimo d'Alema, weakened by severe losses in regional elections on Sunday, submitted his resignation. But President Carlo Azeglio Ciampi rejected it and told him to consult Parliament. A3
 
Syrian Optimism on Peace
The son of President Hafez al-Assad said in an interview that a deal was still possible in Syrian-Israeli talks, which broke down in January. A5
 
World Briefing A10
 
NATIONAL A18-23
 
U.S. Cites Lapses In Airport Security
Fourteen people hired to search bags at Philadelphia International had been convicted of felonies that included aggravated assault, robbery, theft and firearms violations, the government said in filing charges against Argenbright Holdings and three managers. The company, whose security subsidiary is the largest provider of airport security personnel in the country, pleaded guilty to two felonies and agreed to pay $1.2 million. A18
 
Inquiry Into Missing Laptop
Representative Benjamin A. Gilman, chairman of the House International Relations Committee, said he would investigate security lapses at the State Department, a day after it was disclosed that a laptop computer with sensitive data was missing. A20
 
Helping Indians Get Online
President Clinton announced a program to offer low-cost phone service for Indian reservations to help integrate American Indians into the computer age. The $17 million initiative would be financed by an assessment on all long-distance calls. A23
 
Army Tries to Keep Officers
The Army created two panels to deal with the record departures of junior officers, who complain about confusing missions, low morale and the stress of seemingly constant separations from their families. A20
 
Limiting Police Searches
Law-enforcement officials who walk bus aisles squeezing passenger bags to check for contraband are conducting an unconstitutional search, the Supreme Court ruled, 7 to 2. A23
 
Standoff Over Elian Unresolved
A federal appeals court considered whether to grant relatives of Elian Gonzalez in Miami an emergency stay that would delay his return to Cuba until the appellate court hears the full appeal in May. The relatives of supporters said they doubted the government would seek to take the boy during Holy Week, which this year also coincides with the anniversaries of the Bay of Pigs invasion in 1961, the assault on the Branch Davidian compound in 1993 and the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995. A20
 
The Bushes' Tax Statement
Gov. George W. Bush and his wife, Laura, said they had income of $1.3 million in 1999, on which they paid $514,000, or 39.5 percent of their income, in federal taxes. A23
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Leaders in Albany Agree On $1.2 Billion in Tax Cuts
Governor Pataki and legislative leaders neared a deal on the state budget, reaching tentative agreement on an array of tax cuts that would save New Yorkers $1.2 billion a year, aides said. A1
 
Safeguarding Livery Drivers
Officials announced new steps to protect the city's 40,000 livery drivers, as the police investigated whether a killing in Chinatown was the eighth of a livery driver this year. B1
 
Army Officer Pleads Guilty
Col. James C. Hiett, who once oversaw the government's antidrug wars in Colombia, admitted that he had paid his household bills with thousands of dollars he knew his wife had received from smuggling heroin from Bogota to New York. B2
 
Protesting Police Misconduct
The Rev. Al Sharpton led what he said would be the first in a series of protests this week intended to call attention to the issue of police brutality and to press for a federal monitor of the New York Police Department. B4
 
A former police officer, Rolando Aleman, admitted to making false statements to federal agents in 1997, during questioning about the assault on Abner Louima. Mr. Aleman, 29, faces up to five years in prison, but federal prosecutors recommended that he serve a maximum of six months. B2
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-14
 
Health & Fitness F6
 
ARTS E1-10
 
Garbo's Mystery Still Intact
Letters, cards and telegrams written by Greta Garbo were unsealed on Sunday, but did not, as some fans and experts on the actress had hoped, resolve the matter of her sexuality. E3
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Sprint Ends Boston Marathon
Elijah Lagat of Kenya edged out Gezahenge Abera of Ethiopia and Moses Tanui of Kenya. Catherine Ndereba of Kenya led the women. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-29
 
Stocks' Rebound Eases Fears
The Dow gained 276.74 points, or 2.7 percent, to 10,582.51; the Nasdaq rose 217.87 points, or 6.6 percent, to 3,539.16; and the S. & P.500 climbed 44.88 points, or 3.3 percent, to 1,401.44. The recovery, a rebound from Wall Street's steep dive last week, came despite losses earlier in the day in Asia and Europe. A1
 
Experts said it would be wrong to think that the speculative whirlwind that drove technology stocks into the stratosphere had fully returned. C1
 
Microsoft Challenging Palm
Industry analysts said Microsoft's new Pocket PC software would be the first serious challenge to Palm, the leader in the fast-growing market for pocket-sized machines. C1
 
Financial Stocks Strong
Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Charles Schwab reported their most profitable first quarters ever. C2
 
Ford Profits Up 5.1 Percent
Brisk sales of luxury cars and sport utility vehicles in the United States helped lift Ford's first-quarter earnings above forecasts, although overseas operations continued to lose. C6
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
FASHION B9
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: The protesters and the bank; rebound, and relief, in the markets; a tangled history with Iran; preventing livery cab murders.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Gail Collins.
 
Crossword E4
TV Listings E10
Public Lives B2
Weather D8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (93%); CHINA (93%); SYRIA (92%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (93%); CHINA (93%); SYRIA (92%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (87%); FELONIES (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); RADAR SYSTEMS (74%); ROBBERY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); AVIATION SECURITY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); AIRPORT OPERATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); AIRPORTS (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (60%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); NATIVE AMERICANS (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



480 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: In Britain, Putin Finds Reform Popular, but Not Chechen War

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: LONDON, April 17

 BODY:
In his first visit to the West since winning office, Russia's president-elect, Vladimir V. Putin, today courted foreign businessmen, met with the queen and offered some unsolicited advice on the stock market.
Eager to burnish his economic credentials and overcome Western suspicion about his K.G.B. past, he dismissed Friday's rout on Wall Street as little more than a blip. 
 "We don't think it is a catastrophe," Mr. Putin said soothingly as Prime Minister Tony Blair stood by his side. "It is a problem that is likely to corrected by the market in the near future."
The notion of a Russian leader reassuring nail-biting Westerners that their capitalist system is sound was a striking twist for those who recall the ideological debates of the cold war.
But Mr. Putin's goal is to restore Russia as a world power. And that means attracting foreign investment, integrating Russia into the world economy and maintaining correct, if not close, relations with the West.
London was the first Western port of call, Russians said, because it is a bridge between Europe and the United States -- and because Mr. Blair was the most ardent suitor.
"Despite what has happened in the North Caucasus, one would like Western opinion to have greater trust in Russian opinion," Mr. Putin said.
Despite a friendly meeting with Mr. Blair, respectful question-and-answer sessions with British executives and an audience with Queen Elizabeth II at Windsor Castle, Mr. Putin accomplished his task only partly.
Mr. Putin, who will be officially sworn in May 7, seemed to tell Western businessman everything they wanted to hear about his plans to reform his nation's tax system, fight corruption and shrink the government bureaucracy.
But when he shifted his attention to Chechnya and military issues, his easy manner vanished and his message changed. At his news conference with Mr. Blair, Mr. Putin delivered a stern lecture about the need to fight the rebels in Chechnya, who seek independence from Russia.
The only concession he offered was to point to the establishment of yet another commission to look into allegations of human rights abuses by Russian troops there.
The new group is all Russian, though ostensibly independent of the Kremlin, not the international body that human rights advocates have called for. And Mr. Putin himself played down the significance of the panel, saying he had learned about it on the radio.
Nor did Mr. Putin soften his opposition to the American plan to develop antimissile defenses, the most contentious issue dividing Moscow and Washington and one of the principal agenda items for the summit meeting between Mr. Putin and President Clinton to be held in early June.
Mr. Putin's 24-hour visit here was a bit of an echo of a much longer visit that Mikhail S. Gorbachev's made to London in 1984, when the British prime minister at the time, Margaret Thatcher, took the measure of the Soviet leader and pronounced that he was somebody with whom the West could do business.
Mr. Blair delivered the same verdict about Mr. Putin. And the British leader used the Russian leader's visit to cast himself as the premier European statesman and a kind of matchmaker between Russia and the United States on arms control and other tricky questions.
British officials emphasize the need to establish a good rapport with Mr. Putin during the "formative" period of his presidency. It is a task, they assert, that the United States is hard put to carry out during an election year, and which Germany and France do not appear eager to play, in part because of public sentiment against the war in Chechnya.
Today's meeting was the second between the British and Russian leaders. Mr. Blair was so eager to build ties with Mr. Putin that he met with him in St. Petersburg last month, even before Mr. Putin was elected.
"Some say that because of our concerns about Chechnya, we should keep some distance from Moscow," Mr. Blair said. "I believe the best way to get results is by engaging with Russia, not isolating Russia."
Despite the high marks he received from Mr. Blair, there was little public excitement over the visit here. And there was only a small group of protesters.
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Clinton to Meet With Putin
WASHINGTON, April 17 (By The New York Times) -- President Clinton will meet with the Russian leader, Vladimir V. Putin, in Moscow on June 4 and 5, the White House announced today.
The White House press office said the meetings would be part of a trip from May 30 through June 6 that will also include stops in Portugal, Germany and Ukraine.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, right, with Tony Blair of Britain. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; GREAT BRITAIN; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; STOCKS AND BONDS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); COLD WAR (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BONDS (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); CORRUPTION (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (65%); ARMED FORCES (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF GREAT BRITAIN VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); TONY BLAIR (90%); ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (89%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



481 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: On a Day of Protests, K Street Takes the Day Off

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17

 BODY:
The protesters marching downtown today failed to disrupt the spring meeting of the International Monetary Fund and its partner organization, the World Bank. But the protesters managed to halt the business of another influential Washington institution: the law firms and lobbying shops of K Street.
K Street, both as an address and a symbol of the capital's influence industry, was the spine of a 20-block area that the city police cordoned off from traffic early today. Demonstrators marched up and down the avenue in their bid to stop the world financial leaders from pursuing their agenda. They failed, but, in a sense, they might have accomplished more than they realized. 
 "If they wanted to stop capitalism, they have certainly stopped it in the lobbying corridor," said Wayne Berman, chairman of Park Strategies, a lobbying firm at 1800 K Street.
Hundreds of lawyers, lobbyists and political consultants stayed home rather than try to navigate rain-soaked streets gridlocked with shouting demonstrators and police officers in riot gear. Clients who placed calls to many high-powered lobbying firms were greeted by automated phone systems with recorded requests to call back on Tuesday morning.
Mr. Berman said he had closed his office and flown half a dozen Park Strategies employees to the company's Manhattan offices for the day. But he acknowledged that he was not getting much work done; nearly everyone he had tried to call this morning in Washington had taken the day off.
"A combination of the protests, and Congress going on Easter recess this week has shut down the lobbying business," he said.
Mr. Berman said that, in New York, he watched on television as the police and protesters clashed on the street corner beneath his office in Washington. "Probably was a good idea to get out of town," he said.
Indeed, in the streets outside those offices and law firms, there were several tense standoffs. In one, a police officer said he mistakenly used tear gas on hundreds of protesters trying to stop a van near I.M.F. headquarters that they believed was carrying delegates. It was not. At noon, another face-off, ending in a handful of arrests, occurred at the corner of 20th and I Streets. But for much of the day, many blocks in the downtown area were nearly deserted.
Not all of the influence industry's commerce was halted today. Victor Kamber, a lobbyist and political consultant for 34 years, said that his Kamber Group was working at full staff. "It's quiet, only because a lot of our clients stayed home," he said.
Haley Barbour, the lobbyist and former Republican National Committee chairman, said he started his workday at 6:45 a.m., as usual. "Sure, I'm working," Mr. Barbour said. "It's Monday."
Mr. Barbour, one of the leaders of the firm Barbour Griffith & Rogers, said he had seen knots of protesters on the street outside his office during the lunch hour. "I didn't bother them," he said, "and they didn't bother me."
The federal government instituted its liberal leave policy, which it usually does during snowstorms. Most federal agencies in the protest zone, an 11-by-8-block zone east and west of the White House, were closed today, including the Departments of State, Treasury, Commerce and Interior.
And the K Street power haunts -- expensive dealmaker restaurants like Morton's and the Palm and upscale hair salons and cigar shops -- were either closed or as quiet as the Library of Congress.
While most law firms and lobbying concerns were closed, many of the watchdog groups that monitor the intersection of government and business remained open. It was business as usual at the Center for Public Integrity, on 17th Street, half a block from K Street.
"I think we have a lot of wimps in Washington who will use any excuse to stay home," said Charles Lewis, the center's director. "All I had to do was go to a different subway station. I had breakfast and lunch at the Art Gallery Grill, and you had cops and protesters there, eating together. The protesters were holding the door open for the cops. I guess the bottom line is they all have to eat."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: With protests dominating downtown Washington yesterday, K Street was almost empty at what would have been the rush hour. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (51%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT KAMBER GROUP (51%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); RIOTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); EASTER SEASON (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%); TRENDS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); 

PERSON: VAN NATTA, DON JR HALEY BARBOUR (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



482 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Albany Leaders Reach a Deal To Cut Taxes

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 17

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki and legislative leaders removed one of the last remaining obstacles to a state budget deal today, reaching tentative agreement on a broad array of tax cuts that would save New Yorkers $1.2 billion a year, according to aides involved in the negotiations.
The largest part of the package is $330 million to reduce a tax on utility companies that is passed on to consumers and businesses each month. That reduction was sought by Mr. Pataki and his Republican allies in the Senate. The deal also offers a virtual wish list of tax cuts sought chiefly by Senate Republicans: $200 million to provide a tax deduction for college tuition costs, $125 million to give tax credits for low-wage workers and a smattering of tax breaks for businesses. 
 The biggest concession to Democratic leaders of the Assembly was a plan to use $200 million to give a tax break to hundreds of thousands of married couples who are paying higher taxes than if they were single. The Democrats also pushed through a plan to create so-called tax-free zones for businesses in economically distressed areas, at a cost of about $40 million a year to the state.
The one major area of the budget that remains unresolved is education, though legislative leaders from both parties are said to be near an agreement that would increase aid to schools by roughly $1.1 billion. The biggest sticking point there is how to divide the additional money among school districts across the state.
Democrats in the Assembly are seeking to ensure that the New York City school system and other urban schools get what the Democrats consider to be their fair share of the state aid, while Republicans leaders of the Senate are pushing generous increases for suburban and upstate school districts.
The bulk of the new tax cuts are not expected to have any impact on this year's budget because they will be phased in gradually over the next four years. One major tax cut that was embraced earlier this year by the leaders of both the Senate and the Assembly will not make the final budget: reduction of the state's gasoline tax.
The tax-cut deal apparently settles one of the most difficult issues that has held up a final budget agreement. But aides to Mr. Pataki and legislative leaders cautioned that several minor details, including how to structure the tax cuts in future years, needed to be worked out before the plan was finally adopted.
The budget was due on April 1, but for the 16th straight year, the governor and the Legislature missed that deadline. Nevertheless, Mr. Pataki and the Legislature are further along than they have been at this date in most recent years, with the legislative leaders seeking to pass the entire budget by Wednesday.
The tax-cut deal comes nearly two weeks after Mr. Pataki and legislative leaders from both parties said that they had agreed to the parameters of a nearly $78 billion budget and that Mr. Pataki had agreed to refrain from making wholesale vetoes, so long as the Legislature remained within that figure.
The heart of the deal calls for the Legislature to add $1.4 billion to the $76.8 billion budget the governor proposed in January. But the increase will be partly offset because the Legislature intends to reduce the governor's estimates of what some programs will cost. In all, aides to the governor and the Legislature estimate that the final budget will be $77 billion to $78 billion, up 5 percent to 6 percent from last year.
The largest part of the tax-cut package is the $330 million set aside for the gradual repeal of a tax on utility companies that is passed on to consumers and adds several dollars a month to the average New Yorker's gas and electric bills. The gross receipts tax, as it is called, is a 3.25 percent tax on utility companies' gross sales of power.
The deal reached today achieves one of Mr. Pataki's main tax-cutting initiatives this year: the immediate elimination of the tax for manufacturers, who pay hundreds of thousands of dollars a month in power bills. Mr. Pataki and Republicans in the Senate have long sided with business leaders who contend that high utility costs are a major reason for the decline in manufacturing jobs in the state.
The agreement also calls for reducing the gross receipts tax to 2.5 percent for residential customers starting this year, and further reducing it to 2 percent over five years. The deal would also gradually eliminate the gross receipts tax for commercial customers like retailers over five years.
Regarding the proposal to make college tuition fully deductible, the deduction would apply to the payment of tuition at any accredited college or university in the United States or abroad. But it would not cover money spent on books, room and board and other educational fees.
For a family of four with a gross income of $55,000 a year, paying $12,000 a year in tuition at a private college, the new deduction would save $450, according to some estimates. The same family, paying the $3,400 tuition at one of the state's public colleges, would save $136.
As a concession to Democrats, the deal would eliminate the so-called marriage tax penalty. Under current law, two people who are married and have roughly equal incomes pay income taxes at higher rates than they would if single. Roughly a million couples statewide are affected by the tax code's marriage penalty.
Mr. Pataki and legislative leaders have apparently also agreed to set aside $250 million to expand a program that makes electricity available at below-market rates to businesses, in return for commitments to expand or stay in New York.
The deal also provides $25 million to offer tax credits for working parents to help them pay for child care. It also calls for spending $125 million to expand the earned-income tax credit, a break to the working poor. But unlike the other tax cuts, that one will be financed with money provided by the federal government to help states finance antipoverty programs like welfare.
While the tax cuts announced today would have only a slight impact on this year's budget, the budget will reflect $2.3 billion worth of tax cuts enacted in past years that will take effect this year, including a program that helps reduce local property taxes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Chart: "HIGHLIGHTS: Tax Cuts: A Wish List"
Some of the new tax cuts included in the $1.2 billion tax package proposed by Gov. George E. Pataki and legislative leaders.
 
$25 million: Tax credit for child care
$125 million: Tax credit for low-wage workers
$200 million: Tax deduction for college tuition costs
$200 million: Elimination of marriage penalty in tax code
$250 million: Program for low-cost electricity to companies that keep or create jobs in the state
$330 million: Tax reduction for utility companies
$70 million: Other tax cuts
(Sources: Aides to the governor and Legislature)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PUBLIC UTILITIES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; TAX DEDUCTIONS; TAX CREDITS; MARRIAGES TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); FUEL TAX (72%); GASOLINE (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MARRIAGE (67%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (75%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



483 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Is Spending Rise Below Inflation? Depends on the Measure

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 17

 BODY:
The arrival of a new state fiscal year leads to another in a long series of lessons in how numbers -- normally so reassuringly immutable -- can become, in Albany hands, as easy to grasp as sand.
Last year, Gov. George E. Pataki boasted that the state budget raised spending at less than the rate of inflation, a claim that was widely scoffed at. So, did he make it? The answers, culled from a report issued today by the state comptroller, H. Carl McCall, are "almost" and "it depends," because there are almost as many ways to measure the budget as there are people doing the measuring. 
 One thing is clear from the report: For the fiscal year that ended on March 31, state spending, adjusted for inflation, rose at one of the slowest paces since the 1970's, the years that put phrases like "fiscal crisis" and "default" in every New Yorker's vocabulary. Over all, the state spent $73.359 billion, up 3.9 percent from the year before.
Thanks to an unexpected assist from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, that was nearly under the rate of inflation. A year ago, inflation was running about 2 percent. But the United States Department of Labor reported on Friday that the consumer price index in March stood 3.7 percent higher than a year earlier, because of the petroleum cartel's cut in production, which caused fuel prices to soar.
Tracking state finances under Mr. Pataki, a Republican, can be a bit dizzying. He started out as a budget-slashing conservative, earning the wrath of many interest groups. Then he turned into a fairly generous spender as he ran for re-election, drawing fire from conservatives. Last year, he returned to fiscal restraint. But as lawmakers put the finishing touches on this year's budget, they are clearly going in the other direction, headed for a 5 to 6 percent increase in spending.
In the governor's five complete fiscal years, overall spending has increased an inflation-adjusted 4.9 percent. That is a relatively modest pace amid a boom that has had most states spending more freely. "We're doing a better job than the rest of the country in restraining spending growth," said Joseph Conway, spokesman for the governor's budget office.
Still, state spending did increase faster than consumer prices last year, right?
"No," Mr. Conway said. But a moment later, he conceded, "it depends exactly what set of numbers you're talking about."
The numbers are skewed by a 1997 program that was intended to lower property taxes. Ordinarily, a tax cut shows up on the books as a drop in revenue. But this one, paradoxically, shows up as an added expense -- and a rapidly growing one -- because the state makes payments to local school districts to help them hold down the property taxes they charge.
If that expense is subtracted, as the Pataki administration argues it should be, then overall state spending rose 3 percent last year, less than the inflation rate. But critics of the program say it has not succeeded in lowering taxes, turning instead into a new form of aid to school districts.
"It's pretty clear that what's going on in Albany is above-inflation spending," said Thomas W. Carroll, president of Change New York, a conservative, anti-tax group that has gone from Pataki cheerleader to Pataki critic.
Then there is the problem that there is not one common measure of state spending, but three. And all three are flawed.
The "all funds" budget, that $73 billion figure, includes federal grants for things like Medicaid and welfare. That money lies at least partly outside the state's control, and its relationship to the state's bottom line is indirect.
The "state funds" budget, which subtracts that federal money, is a better reflection of the state's own finances. But it is subject to some odd fluctuations and it includes things like tuition payments to the state's public colleges that have nothing to do with the state's real fiscal health. State funds spending was $49.8 billion last year, up 3.8 percent -- a shade more than the rate of inflation. But if the property tax cut program is taken out, the increase was just 2.6 percent.
The governor's office often contends that the real gauge of the budget is what is called the general fund, because it is the part generated directly by state taxes, and it is the area that Wall Street analysts scrutinize most closely. But in the last dozen years, lawmakers have shown great creativity in manipulating that number to keep it low, by simply declaring some things no longer part of the general fund.
The way the governor's office measures the general fund, its expenses totaled $37.2 billion last year, up just 1.6 percent. The way Mr. McCall's office calculates it, the fund reached $34.3 billion, up 1.8 percent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONSERVATISM (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); CARTELS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); TAX LAW (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); EXPORT TRADE (52%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) EDDIE GEORGE (73%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



484 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Killings of Livery Drivers Prompt Police to Step Up Measures

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS 

 BODY:
The outcry over the slayings of livery-cab drivers prompted new steps to combat the attacks yesterday, as the Police Department fleshed out its plans to protect drivers and the mayor proposed further steps to safeguard them.
At a City Council hearing, at two news conferences at City Hall and in discussions at police headquarters, the authorities emphasized that they had developed measures to protect the roughly 40,000 livery drivers in the city. Throughout the day, they were questioned about whether the steps announced so far would stop the slayings. 
 The officials were also asked repeatedly whether a man slain in Chinatown early yesterday was a livery cabby, making his death the eighth this year.
That victim, Jimmy Chan, 40, of 124 Mott Street, was found shot twice in the head and sitting in his Lincoln Town Car, which was not registered as a livery vehicle, a few blocks from the Manhattan Bridge. But the police were pursuing a tip that Mr. Chan might have had ties to illegal gambling in Chinatown. They said that he had $600 on him, and that his death appeared unrelated to the other livery slayings.
Seven livery-cab drivers have been killed so far this year; 11 were killed in all of 1999.
Reacting to the latest slayings, Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker, and Fernando Mateo, president of the New York State Federation of Cab Drivers, held a City Hall news conference to denounce the violence and call for a comprehensive protection plan for drivers. Calling the killings assassinations, Mr. Vallone said, "We are very, very concerned, and we will continually monitor the activities of the Police Department to make sure that the resources that are necessary to stop this carnage are applied and are effective."
Mr. Mateo said the high rate of killings this year was distressing partly because the victims were in a business that served the killers' neighborhoods. "Most of these suspects are people from the inner city and they are committing crimes on inner-city people, and we need to stop that," Mr. Mateo said.
Hours later, Chief of Patrol John Scanlon testified before the City Council Committee on Transportation and provided an overview of the department's new Livery Task Force, which was created as a team of 40 officers in February and was expanded to more than 300 officers after two drivers were killed last week.
Chief Scanlon said the task force had been reinforced with officers from the Street Crime Unit, and would use more decoy livery cabs driven by plainclothes officers as well as establish areas where police officers would be posted to assist drivers who are suspicious of their passengers. The exact number of such areas, called safe zones, and their locations were still being worked out last night.
"Each borough is putting together their plans right now," said Deputy Chief Thomas P. Fahey, a police spokesman. "But it's safe to say that there will be several safe zones in each borough."
The department declined to say how many decoys would be added, or how many were already operating.
Chief Scanlon also said that patrol cars would make frequent stops of livery cabs carrying passengers to check on the drivers' safety, and that the department would refresh officers on signals used by cabdrivers when they are in trouble -- flashing the amber lights on the front and rear of the cabs, for example.
Chief Scanlon also noted that the number of livery-cab drivers slain had dropped sharply since 1993, when 37 were killed. Still, he acknowledged that the killings this year were grounds for concern. "In light of recent events, it has become even more clear that more work needs to be done in this area," the chief said.
As Chief Scanlon spoke, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Police Commissioner Howard Safir held a news conference at which Mr. Giuliani said he had signed an emergency declaration asking the Taxi and Limousine Commission to require that livery cabs have bulletproof partitions or video cameras.
None of the slain drivers were driving a car with a partition or camera, the police said. The commission was expected to meet on the measure today. On Friday, the mayor announced that $5 million from the Economic Development Corporation would be used to pay for the safety devices for the drivers.
The mayor and commissioner also hailed the arrest of two robbery suspects accused of holding up a livery-cab driver at knifepoint early yesterday. Police officials said the two were outwitted by a driver who sensed something was amiss and managed to call for help in the robbers' presence.
"The driver was suspicious and leery of them, so he told them he had a car problem," said Sgt. Brian Burke, a police spokesman. "Then he pulled over, lifted the hood and called the police on his cell phone." As the driver was talking to the police, Sergeant Burke said, the passengers demanded that he return to the vehicle and robbed him of $85. Police officers arrived within minutes and arrested Chris Murphy, 25, and Bernadette Farrell, 33, both of 619 Greenwood Avenue, Brooklyn, who were still near the cab. Both were charged with robbery and criminal possession of a weapon.
As public officials were announcing the new programs and the arrests, Mr. Mateo, president of the drivers' federation, said his members were grateful for the city's effort, but he expressed concern that some elements of the new police operation would not guarantee drivers' safety. For instance, he said, the safe zones might deter some robbers but would be of little use to drivers already in peril. "When you have a gun pointed at your head and you're told to turn right here, turn left there, you can forget about the safe zones," he said.
He also expressed frustration that the Police Department, which has pledged since February to combat the attacks on cab drivers, has only purchased two Lincoln Town Cars for use as decoys. At any given moment, more than 5,000 livery cabs are on the street, and two new decoys seem insufficient, he said.
Further, Mr. Mateo demanded that the police match the increased presence on the street with an increase in detectives.
Chief Fahey said that the department had already done so, and that as many as 20 detectives were working on each of the driver homicides. "These are hot cases right now," he said. "The guy who cracks these, it's going to be good for."
The police also said detectives were in Chinatown seeking clues in Mr. Chan's death.
The authorities said Mr. Chan owned a 1987 Lincoln Town Car and often acted as a cabby, driving his neighbors for money or traveling to the airport to pick up neighbors' friends and relatives. But the authorities said that he was not licensed as a cabdriver, and that his car had handicapped plates.
One police supervisor said Mr. Chan might have been "a driver for illegal gambling operations who picked up gamblers and took them to illegal gambling locations." Investigators were focusing on whether those connections led to his killing, the supervisor said, adding that Mr. Chan's vulnerability as a part-time cabdriver was not at the center of the case.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Relatives of slain livery cabbies in the front row at yesterday's City Council hearing. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE (63%); LIVERY TASK FORCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEE (63%); LIVERY TASK FORCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; GAMBLING CITIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); 

PERSON: CHIVERS, C J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); CHAN, JIMMY JOHN SCANLON (79%); FERNANDO MATEO (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



485 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Leaving the Crisis Room for the Classroom

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS 

 BODY:
EDWARD J. BLAKELY, dean of the School of Management and Urban Policy at the New School, used to be a force in California government, advising mayors in the Bay Area and Los Angeles, lawmakers in Sacramento and commissions convened to rebuild cities after earthquakes, fires, riots or military base closings.
"A lot of that business got done around my kitchen table," said Mr. Blakely, who arrived in New York in August and has yet to unpack the boxes in his office. "Here, I'm not one of the people in the loop, so to speak. And it's the first time in my life I haven't been one of them." 
 So what is he doing here, where his office windows look out on brick walls instead of the eucalyptus trees at the University of California at Berkeley and the bougainvillea at the University of Southern California, schools where he was dean of urban planning departments over the last 23 years?
"New York is New York," he said, sounding like Frank Sinatra on the sound system at Yankee Stadium. "For an urban planner, like for a financial person, you've got to do it here."
It also is a career move, at the age of 62, that fits into a three-stage life plan Mr. Blakely says he put in place even before his voice had changed. At the age of 11, he said, he had figured out that he wanted to be self-sufficient (a polite way of saying rich), then important (perhaps even famous) and finally nurturing (translation: teacher).
The drive for economic self-sufficiency came from his father, a custodian in San Bernadino, where Mr. Blakely grew up. But the elder Mr. Blakely was not an ordinary broom pusher. He had swept floors at the Los Angeles stock exchange while in high school, bought American Can at 10 cents and never looked back.
His son got the message and began investing in real estate while in his 20's. He was in the Bay Area then, buying up derelict properties ("No money down," the ads said) around Lake Merritt in Oakland, which soon became a prime residential neighborhood. By his mid 30's, Mr. Blakely said, he was secure for life. His latest venture is a 500-acre planned community in Corona, Calif.
Stage Two of the life-plan, the drive for prominence, came from his uncle, the head of the N.A.A.C.P. in Riverside. Like him, Mr. Blakely wanted to "be an important person some place." That place turned out to be Oakland, one of the nation's most interesting urban laboratories, with extremes of wealth and poverty, an unusually integrated population and access to a great university.
Mr. Blakely became the bridge between Berkeley and the city, raising millions of dollars from private corporate sources and providing faculty members and graduate students to assist in Oakland's rehabilitation. Through two mayoral administrations, he had an office in City Hall and was an adviser on everything from rebuilding freeways after the 1989 earthquake, to redeveloping shuttered naval bases and reforming demoralized schools.
Finally, in 1998, he decided to run for mayor himself, and likely would have won were it not for the entry of Jerry Brown into a crowded field. Mr. Blakely finished second to the former California governor and perennial presidential candidate. But he has served as Mr. Brown's educational adviser and wrote four ballot initiatives related to school reform that passed in last month's election.
With that responsibility behind him, Mr. Blakely says he is settling in here. He has yet to "learn the environment, the cultural scene, the social scene, the important actors," he said, many of whom will change in the next election..
Mr. Blakely said he did not anticipate becoming a political force here, as he was in California. And that is part of Stage Three of the life plan, inspired by an aunt who taught elementary school and shaped young minds. At Berkeley, Mr. Blakely said, teaching was a "sideline" to his political activities. At the University of Southern California, where he served as dean from 1994 to 1999 (with a year's leave to run for mayor) his task was administrative: merging the schools of public administration and urban planning.
NOW, he is back in the classroom, eager to "have an impact on the practitioners of the future." And his goal, for the 600 graduate students and 27 faculty members in the department, is to be at the forefront of moving the discipline forward. Along with its program in management and urban policy, the New School already trains health care administrators, managers of nonprofit organizations, and human resource managers. Next is a specialty in organizational change.
Mr. Blakely notes that "government is not the only player," as it was in the days of Robert Moses or Fiorello La Guardia. Wall Street is a mini-government, he said, as are the business improvement districts, like the one that transformed Times Square, and the development corporations, like the one that created Battery Park City.
Mr. Blakely grows animated talking about what he calls the "new geography" -- the connections between New York City and London, upstate New York and Canada, San Diego and Tijuana -- and the "new entities," like venture capitalists and minority entrepreneurs.
But will teaching this evolving discipline be enough for a man used to reaching the speaker of the California Assembly on the first ring? "See, I've done that," he said. "I don't need a repeat."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward J. Blakely, the New School's dean of management and urban policy. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW SCHOOL FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH ACP (BELGIUM) (51%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW SCHOOL FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CLOSINGS (73%); RIOTS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (61%); MILITARY BASES (57%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE; BLAKELY, EDWARD J FRANCIS ALBERT 'FRANK' SINATRA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



486 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: The Protesters and the Bank

 BODY:
If the goal of protesters in Washington was to stop the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank from meeting, or shut them down entirely, they clearly failed. The numbers of people who descended on the capital were smaller than expected, and the Washington police engaged in pre-emptive arrests to stop disruptions. Still, the so-called Mobilization for Economic Justice did manage to create havoc throughout the capital over the last three days and call attention to tensions related to the growth of the global economy. There was little from the protesters about how the fund and the bank could be improved instead of scrapped.
Inside the opulent headquarters where they met, financial officials all said they understood the protesters' concerns and were in fact trying to change both the I.M.F. and the World Bank to accommodate them. The I.M.F. has declared its willingness to forgive a large portion of the debt owed by poor countries, but it only inched forward toward that goal. The overseers of the World Bank pledged to be more sensitive to those who have suffered as a result of global economic changes, and they committed "unlimited money" to fight the AIDS epidemic. 
 Even before the protests in Washington, both sides were gearing up for a battle reminiscent of the ones that shut down Seattle last year during a trade meeting. The agitators dreamed of halting the city's operations and achieving a widespread shift in public opinion. But the Washington police had clearly learned the tactical lesson of Seattle, making wholesale arrests simply to clear the streets. There were some reports of beatings of innocent people, but also reports of unwarranted attacks on the police by protesters. In the end, it appeared that most people on both sides exercised restraint.
For many Americans, there was less concern over the cries for economic justice from Washington than for the instability of their own stock portfolios in light of the gyrations on Wall Street last Friday. But the United States and other countries that superintend the I.M.F., the World Bank and the World Trade Organization need to keep up the pressure for reform from within. Without the support of people in donor and recipient countries, these institutions cannot continue to meet the challenges they face and bring about necessary improvements. With greater public understanding, they can help ensure that the global economy is not only strong but also fair and protective of human rights and the environment. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; EDITORIALS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); RIOTS (77%); EPIDEMICS (66%); AIDS & HIV (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



487 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Online Grocer Gets Grant

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Webvan Group Inc., a San Francisco-based online grocer that is building distribution centers in North Bergen and Logan Township, N.J., has been awarded a New Jersey State grant worth more than $3.2 million to help create jobs, state officials said yesterday. 
 The New Jersey Economic Development Authority approved the Business Employment Incentive Program grant because Webvan said it would create 1,000 jobs in the state. The grant is to be spread out over 10 years. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WBVN (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: WEBVAN GROUP WEBVAN GROUP INC (93%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (72%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (57%); NEW JERSEY STATE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEBVAN GROUP NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (57%); NEW JERSEY STATE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NORTH BERGEN (NJ); LOGAN TOWNSHIP (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; LABOR; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); JOB CREATION (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); APPROVALS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



488 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Council to Review Sanctions Policy as Criticism Increases

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 17

 BODY:
The Security Council, faced with growing criticism of embargoes that fail to deter dictators but often hurt civilians, decided unanimously today to take a hard look at how sanctions are applied and how they can be improved.
In a long debate, no council member or representative of other nations expressed unqualified approval of the way sanctions are now used. The council president, Robert Fowler of Canada, announced that a working group, drawing on outside experts, would begin a six-month policy review. 
 The move reflects a wider sanctions re-examination taking place around the world, including studies by committees in the British and Canadian Parliaments and expert studies for Germany and Switzerland. There are many calls for "smart" sanctions that would be more precisely directed against leaders and their entourages.
This morning, speaking to a conference of United Nations officials, diplomats and scholars, Secretary General Kofi Annan said there was a "general lack of understanding and skepticism in the general public about the rationale and usefulness of sanctions." Even among nations not affected by sanctions, he said, "there appears a growing distrust of this instrument, and its ability to bring about change at a fair cost."
The United Nations is having a hard time responding to critics of sanctions against Iraq, where, according to a new estimate from the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, 80 percent of the civilian population has been negatively affected.
The Clinton administration has been largely absent from this worldwide debate, diplomats say. It has instead continued to use sanctions or the threat of sanctions widely, sometimes pressing the Security Council to back up Washington's measures, to the discomfort of other nations.
Some diplomats say that barring a particularly terrible outrage by a leader somewhere, it will be very difficult in the foreseeable future to win a vote for sanctions, especially for a comprehensive economic embargo like that imposed on Iraq a decade ago.
"The Security Council has imposed sanctions 12 times since 1990 and only twice before then," Jean-David Levitte, the French ambassador here, said during today's debate, adding that the increase justified a reassessment of sanctions policy.
"The Sanctions Decade" is the title of a new book by two American scholars, David Cortright of the Fourth Freedom Forum and George Lopez of Notre Dame. The book (International Peace Academy/Lynne Reinner Publishers) studies 12 cases and summarizes suggestions for improving sanctions that have been made by experts around the world.
Today, the French and the Russians added a call for limited durations for sanctions, forcing complete reviews rather than rollovers at periodic intervals.
James B. Cunningham, the deputy American representative, said that once imposed, sanctions should be kept in place until the leader against whom they are directed changes behavior.
Security Council sanctions, carrying the possibility of military enforcement, are in effect in Afghanistan, Angola, Iraq, Liberia, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan and Yugoslavia, the last for President Slobodan Milosevic's actions in Kosovo. Sanctions against Libya were suspended after two suspects were turned over to a Scottish court for trial in the 1988 bombing of Pan American Flight 101. 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a decision by the United Nations Security Council to review its policy on sanctions misstated the flight number of the Pan American jet that was blown up over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988, leading to sanctions on Libya, since suspended. It was Flight 103, not 101.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); FRANCE (79%); RWANDA (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (74%); SWITZERLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); FRANCE (79%); RWANDA (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (74%); SWITZERLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); APPROVALS (72%); BOOK REVIEWS (67%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (65%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; FOWLER, ROBERT; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) GEORGE LOPEZ (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



489 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Italy's Leader Shaken by Right's Gains in Regional Voting

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: ROME, April 17

 BODY:
Weakened by severe losses in regional elections on Sunday, Italy's center-left prime minister, Massimo D'Alema, submitted his resignation tonight. But President Carlo Azeglio Ciampi rejected it, and told him to consult Parliament.
Mr. D'Alema did not say he would seek a vote of confidence in Parliament, but that is the usual procedure when a government is imperiled. He did say he would seek a mandate at least until May 21, when Italians are to vote in a referendum that seeks, among other things, to create a bipolar electoral system. 
 But the prime minister's newly invigorated center-right opponents want him to leave office right away. If Mr. D'Alema fails to retain his slender majority in Parliament, Italy could be plunged into elections a year early.
Italy's center-right opposition leader, Silvio Berlusconi, received huge backing in the elections on Sunday as his coalition won 8 out of 15 regions. "The results are evident and indisputable; the government majority in Parliament is a minority in the rest of the country," he said. He called for early elections to "restore to the people their sovereignty."
After discussing the sobering results with his cabinet, Mr. D'Alema met with Mr. Ciampi. He argued that with the referendum in May, a new electoral law could emerge, dispensing with the current hybrid system that retains 25 percent proportional representation. Such a change, he said, would "guarantee the stability and authority of the government." But he promised not to use the referendum as a "shield" to preserve his shaky hold on power.
The regional election results, which were tallied today, underscored the strength of the Polo, the center-right bloc, as well as the popularity of its leader, Mr. Berlusconi, a media tycoon who was elected prime minister in 1994. He tumbled from power less than a year later when his coalition partner, Umberto Bossi, leader of the separatist Northern League, pulled out.
This time Mr. Bossi, who has scaled down his rebel platform from separatism to greater federalism, again joined forces with Mr. Berlusconi's center-right Forza Italia. As expected, their coalition held a firm grip on the affluent north. But Mr. Berlusconi's party, aligned with other small center-right parties, also won key regions to the south, including Lazio, the province of Rome.
Sunday was the first time Italians voted directly for regional presidents, who are akin, if slightly less powerful, to governors in the United States. Turnout was 72.6 percent, high by American standards, but almost 9 points lower than in the last regional elections in 1995.
The next parliamentary elections are supposed to take place in 2001. But on May 21 Italians are to vote again in a referendum that proposes the elimination of the remaining quota of proportional representation in Parliament, which many analysts say has kept the political system unstable. If passed, the referendum would introduce a system that would force small parties to coalesce into two blocs on the right and the left. But it is opposed by Mr. Berlusconi, as well as some center-left politicians, who fear that their small parties will become extinct.
The referendum is only one of many issues that have chiseled away at Mr. D'Alema's support.
"At its most obvious and banal level, the results reveal voters' rejection of the D'Alema government," said Lucio Caracciolo, a political analyst and editor of Limes, a bimonthly journal. "The center-left has failed to convince voters that they are doing anything about immigration or unemployment."
The heated, sometimes nasty campaign leading to today's results was waged not on local issues but a national agenda, marked most by the tactics of Mr. Berlusconi. A onetime cruise ship crooner, he returned to his deckside roots for the campaign, cruising up and down the coast on a luxury liner, keeping the spotlight firmly on his own perenially tanned persona. "There is no one like me," he told small crowds invited onto his boat from Naples to Venice during his 10-day campaign-at-sea.
Mr. Berlusconi, 63, who among other things owns the AC Milan soccer team and Italy's three largest private networks, has been investigated and convicted on charges of illegal campaign contributions and corrupt business practices like bribing tax officials (one conviction of false accounting was overturned on appeal in February) and still faces a battery of trials. But he has portrayed his legal battles as political persecution by leftist prosecutors, and many Italians, who admire him as a self-made tycoon, do not seem particularly shocked by his trail of convictions.
Mr. D'Alema, who will turn 51 on Thursday, entered the race confidently, predicting that his coalition would pick up at least one more region than it took in 1995, when the center-left won nine regions, three more than the center-right. He had hoped the election results would lend a stamp of legitimacy to his government, which was put together in a parliamentary maneuver in 1998.
Mr. D'Alema, a former Communist and founder of the non-Marxist party Democrats of the Left, nearly lost a no-confidence vote in December when his fragile coalition splintered. That left him with an even slimmer majority.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday about regional elections in Italy misidentified the man standing next to Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema. He was Gaetano Gifuni, an official at the Quirinal Palace. He was not President Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, with whom Mr. D'Alema met.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema, left, at a news conference at the Quirinal Palace yesterday with President Carlo Azeglio Ciampi. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ITALY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; ITALY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ROME, ITALY (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS ELECTIONS (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (88%); ELECTION LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; D'ALEMA, MASSIMO (PRIME MIN); CIAMPI, CARLO AZEGLIO (PRES); BERLUSCONI, SILVIO SILVIO BERLUSCONI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



490 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: World Trade Officials Pledging To Step Up Effort Against AIDS

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN and JOHN KIFNER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17

 BODY:
The world's top financial officials, trying to show sensitivity to poverty as protesters braved a chilling rain and an impenetrable police force outside, pledged to pay more attention to globalization's victims and to commit "unlimited money" to fight AIDS in poor countries.
The finance ministers and central bank governors who oversee the World Bank said the bank should intensify its fight against AIDS because the disease is as much a problem of poverty as public health. More than 50 million people are infected with the virus that causes the disease, and it is spreading fastest in Africa, India, China and the Caribbean, all major World Bank clients. The bank has been active for more than a decade in fighting the disease. 
 The new commitment on AIDS came as finance officials sought to show that they were at least as focused on helping people and nations that have not benefited much from globalization as they are on speeding the international march of capitalism. They promised to accelerate debt relief for the developing world and to press rich nations to agree to import farm and clothing products from the poorest ones duty free.
But some of their promises are unlikely to be fulfilled soon. Wealthy nations have been slow to commit the money necessary for debt relief, and the World Bank has insisted on an intensive review of how third-world countries will use money made available when debt is forgiven.
The United States also watered down language on duty-free market access in a final communique today for fear that any broad commitment to open markets here would prompt a backlash from Congress and undermine support for the Clinton administration's push to grant China permanent normal trade status.
Protests against the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund wound down in a driving rain today as a small band of demonstrators scuffled with the police early in the morning, and others, their numbers greatly diminished from the more than 10,000 during the weekend, marched through the streets.
After several tense standoffs with lines of helmeted policemen, a strange street party developed as the police agreed to doff their gas masks and peacefully arrest protesters who stepped through a symbolic breach in their barricades in small groups.
Makeshift drums throbbed, puppeteers danced, and beach balls were tossed around as 500 people walked arm in arm in groups of a dozen or so to be taken to buses as the crowd chanted, "We're here! We're wet! Cancel the debt!" The protesters accuse the World Bank and the I.M.F. of spreading the gospel of free-market capitalism to benefit corporations while ignoring the environmental impact of their policies and worsening poverty in many countries.
Mayor Anthony A. Williams said at a morning news conference, "Our police officers and law enforcement officers played it right."
But while disrupting Washington on a Sunday is a small matter -- the downtown is virtually deserted then anyway -- the protesters did manage to close down normal business in the capital today. The city and federal government told many workers to stay home. And the police closed so many streets to traffic that they in effect shut down another major economic power: the lobbying firms along K Street.
Though protesters never managed to disrupt the meetings at the bank and the fund as they had hoped, the turnout of activists put officials on the defensive.
"It was impossible not to be affected," said James D. Wolfensohn, the president of the World Bank, who complained that the bank was being accused of causing poverty when all of its employees were devoted to alleviating it.
"I come to work every day with 10,000 colleagues who think that they are doing what we are being criticized for," Mr. Wolfensohn said. "I am a bit nonplussed, really."
Mr. Wolfensohn said the decision to step up the fight against AIDS was a example of the bank's commitment to fight poverty in all its manifestations -- and of what he called the protesters' ignorance of World Bank initiatives. The bank is well known for financing large-scale dams, roads and power plants in third-world nations, projects that critics say often do not do much to help the poor. Mr. Wolfensohn said the bank these days was much more focused on small-scale poverty-relief initiatives and efforts to combat diseases.
After reviewing the bank's policies today, the so-called Development Committee, controlled by the bank's member nations, made AIDS lending the bank's top priority. The bank has made loans to AIDS-related projects for a dozen years, but it has recently become more active in programs in Africa, India, Eastern Europe and several other areas.
The bank does not administer health programs itself. But Mr. Wolfensohn said it was prepared to help countries impacted by AIDS to develop prevention and treatment programs.
"We will make sure that no sensible program is stopped for lack of money," he said. "We will either provide it ourselves or we will help them raise it."
The finance minister of India, Yashwant Sinha, strongly supported the World Bank's efforts on AIDS. He suggested that they showed that the bank was more in touch with the interests of developing countries than protesters were. "Really nobody knows what they are protesting against," he said. "They were here to prevent us from doing our work."
After the large, peaceful protests on Sunday -- with some protesters garbed as sea turtles, others wearing shark fin hats, as in loan shark, and huge puppets like the "structural adjustment mechanism," a Rube Goldberg contraption with jaws that ate rain forests -- leaders of "affinity groups" gathered late Sunday night to reassess their tactics.
"We decided we needed to radically change our style today," said Terra Lawson, a 21-year old Yale senior.
They were to break into two groups, with the smaller band of about 400 going out early to try to cause trouble for the delegates being escorted by the police to the meeting. But in a series of scuffles, the police quickly stopped them with pepper spray, clubs and tear gas, arresting, they said, about 90 people.
A little before 8 a.m., a bus filled with delegates making their way to the World Bank crossed paths with about 100 demonstrators. Several protesters, black-clad anarchists among them, tried to sit in front of the bus. A squad of riot-equipped police officers jumped out of a van behind the delegate's bus, doused the protesters with pepper spray, dragged them away from the buses, and sped off with the delegates.
Chief Charles H. Ramsey was clutching a small red rose by the barricades this afternoon as a tense confrontation was defused. That face-off developed after the main body of 1,000 protesters managed to march at around 10:30 a.m., reaching a wide intersection near the George Washington University campus and the World Bank. Sirens wailed as the police in patrol cars, motorcycles and vans with black windows raced through the streets after the protesters.
"We're nonviolent -- how about you!" the demonstrators chanted.
Solid lines of police officers, cradling their nightsticks, blocked the streets leading toward the banker's meeting, bulging in their black riot gear. A loudspeaker among the demonstrators blared the Darth Vader theme from "Star Wars."
An anarchist climbed onto a traffic light and waved a black flag. At one point the police shot pepper spray at the protesters. The police blocked surrounding intersections several times, then pulled back. At one point, they pounced on a group of about 30 protesters, threw them to the ground, then let them go when they decided they were the wrong ones.
After several hours some of the protesters, including a young woman wearing what looked like a tree on her head, began negotiations by the barricades with Chief Ramsey and other ranking officers. Finally, an agreement was reached and relayed to the crowd. The protesters agreed to move back 10 feet, to sit down and be arrested in small groups. The police would take off their gas masks and make a gap in their barricades for the protesters to walk through before they were arrested.
"It was really tense when the police were pepper-spraying us," said Stephanie Finnernan, 15, holding a sunflower as she danced. "Then when we heard they were opening the gates, we were amazed. Then the arrests and cheers. Now people are dancing in the streets."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Headlines yesterday about a decision by officials who oversee the World Bank to step up efforts against AIDS referred to them incorrectly. As noted in the article, they are finance officials, not trade officials.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters who had chosen to be arrested sat down on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington yesterday as they waited for the police to take them. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 
Map of Washington D.C. highlighting K Street: Police closings included K Street, home to many lobbying businesses. (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; CREDIT; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); AIDS & HIV (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RIOTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); VIRUSES (71%); TRENDS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; KIFNER, JOHN; WILLIAMS, ANTHONY (MAYOR); WOLFENSOHN, JAMES D HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



491 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
U.S. STOCKS RALLY AFTER PRICES SLIDE IN GLOBAL MARKETS

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS and JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stock prices stabilized and then soared in the United States yesterday after plunging in Asia and sliding in early European trading. The recovery eased fears of a collapsing market that had intensified after the Nasdaq composite index lost a quarter of its value last week.
The action produced sighs of relief from Wall Street to Washington, where officials had spent the weekend reassuring investors that nothing was wrong with the economy. 
 But it also emphasized that the extreme volatility of the technology stocks that dominate the Nasdaq market was continuing unabated.
The Nasdaq composite was up less than 1 percent at 3:11 p.m., but then went on a tear and by 4 p.m. was up 6.6 percent for the day, making it the second-best day in Nasdaq history, exceeded only by Oct. 21, 1987, after that year's crash.
The late surge seemed to reflect orders from both individual investors and those from money management firms, in contrast to Friday, when the fall seemed to have been caused mostly by money managers trying to get out as fast as they could.
Other market measures also soared late in the day. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks ended the day up 3.3 percent, rising 44.88 to 1,401.44, and the Dow Jones industrial average ended up 2.7 percent as it gained 276.74, to 10,582.51.
None of the market indexes made up all of their Friday losses, however, and market strategists said it would be wrong to conclude that technology stocks would rally to their recent peaks Page C1 .
The size of the rally surprised even those who had remained bullish through last week's plunge. "I thought we would have an okay day," said Jeffrey M. Applegate, the chief United States strategist at Lehman Brothers, "but I thought it would be subdued." He warned that while economic fundamentals are fine, stock prices will probably be choppy "because the stock market does not do well typically coming off this type of volatility" and the Federal Reserve is likely to raise interest rates again.
Many Wall Street firms, in issuing reassuring comments before trading began, noted that inflation remained subdued, despite a disturbing report on March consumer prices that rattled investors on Friday, and that corporate profits were strong.
The big gains in American stocks came at the end of a trading day that saw heavy volatility around the world, with Asian markets down as much as 11 percent, but that began to stabilize when a new offering of an Internet company in Germany found willing buyers and rose 40 percent from its offering price.
As stock prices were rising, interest rates were also on the rise, more than offsetting Friday's declines. The yield on 10-year Treasury notes rose from 5.85 percent to 6.04 percent. While last week's market chaos had encouraged some to think that the Fed might be less likely to raise short-term rates next month, yesterday's recovery seemed to end those hopes. A sharp decline in stocks, it was argued, could make people feel less rich and curb their spending, thereby slowing the economy's torpid growth and lessening the Fed's need to act to keep inflation at bay .
Even as the American stock market was recovering, investors appeared nervous about some of the technology companies that previously were intense objects of speculation. On average, the 50 hottest initial public offerings of 1999 rose less than half a percent yesterday.
In that respect, yesterday's recovery was different from the first big one of this month, when the Nasdaq market turned around in the early afternoon of April 4, after falling 7.6 percent the previous day and losing 13.6 percent more in early trading. Then the same issues leaped almost twice as much as the Nasdaq did.
"The companies that have been subject to less speculative froth" did better yesterday than other Internet stocks, said Henry Blodgett, the Internet analyst for Merrill Lynch, adding that he expected investors to continue to differentiate companies with earnings, or at least good prospects of profits within a year or two, from those with red ink looming indefinitely. "If the sentiment really turns negative, there is no floor on companies that don't have earnings you can point to," he said.
Within the S.& P. 500, an index that generally includes large companies with substantial operating histories, technology stocks rose 9 percent, according to Thomas McManus, an equity strategist for Bank of America Securities, far better than the overall index. Among leading large technology companies, Intel rose 11.3 percent, Cisco 17.7 percent and Oracle 17.8 percent. An index of Internet stocks compiled by TheStreet.com, by contrast, rose less than 2 percent.
The market got a boost from Abby Joseph Cohen, chief market strategist at Goldman, Sachs, who said "there are a lot of companies that are reasonably priced" within the S.& P. 500. She had said on March 28 that technology stocks were "no longer undervalued," but in an interview yesterday she said that "to the extent that technology stocks have gone down in price suggests that they are a better value."
Some still consider the big technology companies too expensive. Nicholas Sargen, global market strategist for J. P. Morgan's private clients, said that on Friday the technology stocks in the S.& P. index were trading at 43 times expected profits. "We still have a market pricing in a high premium for technology," he said.
The Nasdaq composite enjoyed explosive growth beginning last summer and continuing until early last month. While the index remains down 29.9 percent from its peak, it is up 42.5 percent over the last year.
Yesterday began on a scary note. Asian markets suffered steep losses, with technology issues doing the worst. The Japanese market fell 7.0 percent, Hong Kong lost 6.6 percent and South Korea fell 11.7 percent.
Major European markets opened with declines of about 3 percent, but ended the day with smaller losses.
The first indication that yesterday was not to be a day of complete bad news for shareholders came in Europe, where the initial public offering of T-Online, Germany's largest Internet service, rose 48 percent in the first day of trading.
Still, there was a clear sense of nervousness in the hours leading up to the New York opening. The overnight market in stock index futures -- a market that was being closely watched for signs of how New York would open -- gyrated rapidly as far more contracts were traded than on a normal Sunday night and Monday morning. But within minutes of the 9:30 a.m. opening of New York trading, it became clear that sell orders were not overwhelming the market.
There were some good earnings reports yesterday, from such companies as Ford, Bank of America, Citigroup, Charles Schwab and Merrill Lynch. But those reports came before trading began in the morning, and while they helped the individual stocks, they did not appear to have set off the late-afternoon surge.
Instead, it appeared to be a recovery of confidence both among institutional and individual investors. "I don't know anyone personally who is selling," said Wayda Pearle, 38, a welder interviewed yesterday at a brokerage office in San Jose, Calif. "I know a lot of people who are running to buy." He said he had bought $5,000 in technology stocks.
Fidelity Investments, the largest mutual fund company, said that it suffered "very small withdrawals" from equity funds yesterday, far less than Friday. But it added that its customers who traded in individual stocks had bought twice as many shares as they had sold.
T. Rowe Price, another major mutual fund company, said that it had a net inflow of cash into its stock funds, with much of the money going into two funds, one that specializes in technology stocks and another that focuses on blue chip stocks.
 
Auction of Treasury Bills
Results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of 3-month and 6-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.573	97.085	High Rate	5.64%	5.76%	Investment Rate	5.80%	6.02%	Low Rate	5.59%	5.65%	Median Rate	5.63%	5.75%	Total applied for	$28,242,206	$26,232,924	Accepted	$13,057,726	$11,954,140	Noncompetitive	$1,236,247	$1,001,642	
 
Both issues are dated April 20, 2000. The three-month bills mature on July 20, 2000, and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 19, 2000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Charts in Business Day on April 18 and 19 showing the biggest one-day percentage gains in the Nasdaq composite index omitted some. The fifth-biggest was 6.02 percent, on Sept. 8, 1998; the eighth-biggest was on Oct. 9, 1998 (5.17 percent); the ninth-biggest was on Sept. 1, 1998 (5.06 percent); and the 10th-biggest was on Oct. 15, 1998 (4.55 percent). This Tuesday the index had its third-biggest increase, 6.57 percent.


GRAPHIC: Chart: "Spring Fever"
With yesterday's rally, two of the Nasdaq composite index's best days and three of its worst have occurred this month.
 
NASDAQ'S BEST DAYS
 
DATE: Oct. 21, 1987
CLOSE: 351.86
INCREASE: + 7.34
 
DATE: Yesterday
CLOSE: 3,539.66
INCREASE: + 6.57
 
DATE: Oct. 30, 1987
CLOSE: 323.30
INCREASE: + 5.29
 
DATE: Oct. 29, 1987
CLOSE: 307.05
INCREASE: + 5.20
 
DATE: Jan. 10, 2000
CLOSE: 4,049.67
INCREASE: + 4.30
 
DATE: June 16, 1999
CLOSE: 2,517.83
INCREASE: + 4.27
 
DATE: April 7, 2000
CLOSE: 4,446.45
INCREASE: + 4.19
 
DATE: Jan. 7, 2000
CLOSE: 3,882.62
INCREASE: + 4.17
 
DATE: Feb. 11, 1999
CLOSE: 2,405.55
INCREASE: + 4.16
 
DATE: March 28, 1980
CLOSE: 129.25
INCREASE: + 4.16
 
NASDAQ'S WORST DAYS
 
DATE: Oct. 19, 1987
CLOSE: 360.21
DECLINE: -11.35
 
DATE: April 14, 2000
CLOSE: 3,321.29
DECLINE: -9.67
 
DATE: Oct. 20, 1987
CLOSE: 327.79
DECLINE: -9.00
 
DATE: Oct. 26, 1987
CLOSE: 298.90
DECLINE: -9.00
 
DATE: Aug. 31, 1998
CLOSE: 1,499.25
DECLINE: -8.56
 
DATE: Apr. 3, 2000
CLOSE: 4,223.68
DECLINE: -7.64
 
DATE: Apr. 12, 2000
CLOSE: 3,769.64
DECLINE: -7.06
 
DATE: Oct. 27, 1997
CLOSE: 1,535.09
DECLINE: -7.02
 
DATE: March 27, 1980
CLOSE: 124.09
DECLINE: -6.15
 
DATE: April 19, 1999
CLOSE: 2,345.85
DECLINE: -5.56
 
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press)(pg. C16)
 
Chart: "Nervousness, Then Relief"
After markets plunged in the United States on Friday and in Asia yesterday morning, investors adopted a wait-and-see attitude in early trading in Europe. That caution turned to enthusiasm as trading opened in the United States and prices began to rise. Here is what happened to Cisco Systems, which trades in Germany and the United States. All times are Eastern Standard.
 
Graph shows Cisco Systems stock price yesterday, minute-by-minute. (Source: Bridge Information Systems)(pg. C16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; EUROPE; ; UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000



492 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 26; Column 3; Museums 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: The Sweetest Words of All: No Charge

BYLINE: By CLIFF ROTHMAN; Cliff Rothman is a writer in Los Angeles who specializes in culture.

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS

 BODY:
WHEN the "Angels at the Vatican" exhibition toured the United States two years ago, it drew an average of 918 visitors a day to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, 964 to the Baltimore Museum of Art and 1,804 to the Detroit Institute of Arts. But the St. Louis Art Museum dwarfed the others, with 2,420 people a day.
Two years earlier, "Splendors of the Pharaohs" drew 163,459 visitors to the St. Louis museum, 50 percent more than its closest competitor, the Indianapolis Museum of Art. And in 1993, "The Plains Indians" had 110,000 visitors in St. Louis, 10,000 more than even its organizer, the Minneapolis Institute of Arts. 
 "In the 10 years I've been here," said Kay Porter, the director of community relations for the St. Louis museum, "we've consistently come first for every touring exhibition."
Something in the water? Probably not. A more likely explanation lies in an unusual and alluring feature of the city's museum system.
Admission is free.
That's right: Nothing. Nada. Zilch. Although there is a charge for touring exhibitions like "Angels at the Vatican," visitors pay nothing to get into the museum itself. And the policy applies throughout St. Louis's museum system: the zoo, the history museum, the science center and (though at select times, and for local residents only) the botanical garden.
American museums derive an average of 20 percent of their earned income from admissions, according to the American Association of Museums, and fees vary widely -- from $5 at the Confederate Civil War Museum in New Orleans, for example, to $12 at the Guggenheim in New York and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. But in St. Louis -- founded by working-class European immigrants who smarted from the memories of the elitism of their homelands' cultural institutions -- tradition dictates otherwise.
In 1904, after the close of the great Louisiana Purchase Exposition, the sole remaining permanent structure -- the Palace of Fine Arts -- was converted to what would become the St. Louis Art Museum, with free admission supported by local property taxes. There it is, etched into the building's limestone frieze: "Dedicated to Art and Free to All."
The next year, the zoo was added. "It was put to a public referendum so that the residents of the city of St. Louis had to vote in favor of it, which they did," said Charlie Hoessel, the zoo director.
Next came the Museum of Science. In 1983, the Missouri Botanical Garden was brought into the fold, followed five years later by the Jefferson Memorial Museum, renamed the Missouri Historical Society.
Through two world wars, the Depression and several recessions, admission has steadfastly remained free of charge -- a rare utopian dynamic with no local opposition and evidence that it attracts thousands of visitors, increases tourism, burnishes the city's egalitarian identity and is happily -- yes, happily -- supported by taxpayer dollars.
When an admission charge was proposed to pay for capital improvements, voters in both the city and county voted to double their museum tax -- a component of property taxes -- to keep the free admission policy, said Mr. Hoessel.
The system is overseen by an umbrella organization dubbed, somewhat lugubriously, the Metropolitan Zoological Park and Museum District. Four of its eight directors are appointed by the mayor and four by the county executive, whose jurisdiction includes the suburbs. The district's property tax -- now 22 cents per $100 of assessed valuation, or $220 on a house assessed at $100,000 -- raises more than $35 million a year, up from $4 million in the early 1980's.
In 1998, for example, the art museum received $11.6 million from property taxes, which provided 78 percent of its general operating support. The remainder came from various other sources, including paid admissions for special exhibitions and programs. Proceeds from the gift shop -- $1.2 million in 1998 -- are used to buy art.
HOW much does free admission affect attendance? The rec ords regularly set by touring art exhibitions offer one barometer. The St. Louis Zoo offers another. With nearly three million visitors a year, it has the second-highest attendance in the country -- just a few hundred thousand fewer than the much-better-known San Diego Zoo, even though the San Diego metropolitan area draws many more tourists than St. Louis.
"A rule of thumb in our industry is that your attendance should reflect your metropolitan population," Mr. Hoessel said. "We're way ahead of the curve."
Free admission doesn't morph museums into competitors of the local mall, of course, but even low-key weekend events have attracted turnouts that startle the management.
"We invited floral designers from the St. Louis community to create floral arrangements inspired by works of art," said Ms. Porter, the art museum spokeswoman, about an event held last month. "We expected to draw, oh, 3,000 or 4,000. More than 8,000 showed up."
The art museum regularly finishes in the top 10 in nationwide attendance, though the St. Louis metropolitan area ranks only 18th in population. In 1998, it had 803,000 visitors, half as many as the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
Do tourists pick St. Louis because some key attractions are free? "Well, 37 percent of our out-of-town visitors went to the zoo, 28 percent went to the science center, 16 percent visited the art museum, 16 percent visited the botanical garden," said Carole Moody, the city's director of marketing. "We see free admission as a factor. Families are looking for value. If they can do more things with the same amount of money within their budget, it makes St. Louis a more attractive destination."
Is there a downside? "Well, membership drives," Ms. Porter said with a laugh. "It becomes a little challenging to establish special benefits when admission is free."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Meet me in St. Louis: with free admission, the city zoo accommodates nearly three million visitors a year. (Mary Butkus for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HOLY SEE (88%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ST LOUIS ART MUSEUM ST LOUIS ART MUSEUM (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS ART MUSEUM

GEOGRAPHIC: ST LOUIS (MO); UNITED STATES (95%); HOLY SEE (88%); MISSOURI, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS; ZOOS; GARDENS AND GARDENING MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); HISTORY (89%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (89%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (89%); RELIGION (89%); GARDENING (72%); CIVIL WAR (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (61%); REFERENDUMS (60%); PROPERTY TAX (50%); 

PERSON: ROTHMAN, CLIFF CHARLIE HOESSEL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



493 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 9; Column 1; Museums 

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Nothing Against Old Art, but Gallery Rats Hunger for New

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SOLOMON; Deborah Solomon is the author of "Utopia Parkway: The Life and Work of Joseph Cornell" and a forthcoming biography of Norman Rockwell.

 BODY:
WHEN most people think about art, they think of museums, of climbing the grand stairs to the Met or spiraling down the ramps of the Guggenheim. But the adventure of art is hardly confined to Fifth Avenue. The throngs pouring into museums have little, if any, connection to the small, dedicated crowd of people who follow the contemporary art scene, and who tend to believe that museums have as much to do with supporting the life of art as the circus does with propagating wildlife.
Introducing the New York gallery rats. On Saturday afternoons, they converge en masse on SoHo, on 57th Street and particularly on West Chelsea, the latest art neighborhood in a city that has more than 750 galleries and remains America's art capital. 
 The goal of most gallerygoers is not to buy a painting to hang over their couch. Rather, it is to keep abreast of the scene, to survey new art as it springs into being. The notion excites: fresh work brought to light, most of it by undead artists, most of it consisting of cool and strange objects that might be either excellent, passable or eminently forgettable.
"I see very few museum shows," said Nancy Portnoy, a Manhattan art collector who is on an advisory committee at the Museum of Modern Art and is also a trustee of the New Museum of Contemporary Art. "When I want to see art, I go to galleries, which are about being in the moment, in the now, and discovering artists who haven't been given a gold star by museums. The only time I go to the Met is when I need some place to take my grandchildren."
Gallery rats, it should be noted, have no particular grievance against the art of the past. Many of them, in fact, have felt their hearts race in the presence of a Cezanne still life or a Corot landscape; they fully understand that museums house the physical and spiritual records of humankind.
On the other hand, when you see a work of art in a museum, you are seeing a work that is part of art history and has been touched over time by the gaze of perhaps millions of viewers. Museums offer the dream of the past; galleries, the slap of the new.
Asking people to compare galleries to museums provokes peculiar and disparate metaphors.
"Galleries are like the daily newspaper, while museums are like the Old Testament," said Robert Rosenblum, the curator of 20th-century art at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum.
As A. M. Homes, the novelist and art writer, suggested, "Gallery shows are like sushi, raw and fresh, while museum shows are like cooked French food, with an enormous number of steps going into the preparation."
Asked which he prefers, Wayne Koestenbaum, the author and cultural critic, listed 15 reasons to favor galleries over museums, from the economic ("galleries are free"), to the aesthetic ("the art in a gallery is more likely to surprise, shock, titillate, unnerve"), to the wryly personal: "When I see art in a gallery, I often have the illusion that it is possible to meet the artist. Art in a museum, even if the artist is alive, offers no such fantasy or hope of access."
Granted, gallerygoing can be intimidating. To enter a gallery specializing in contemporary art is to risk confrontation with a mysterious painting, sculpture, installation, photograph or video that can make the uninitiated feel clumsily insecure. It does not help matters that most galleries, with their all-white, blankly minimal spaces, are about as welcoming as a Soviet-era interrogation room.
And let us not forget that marvelous creature known as the gallery assistant, inevitably a willowy woman who looks as if she stepped out of Vogue, sitting at the front desk and eyeing visitors with a hauteur that confirms their suspicions that they do not completely understand art and should henceforth confine their Saturday outings to the Bronx Zoo.
That helps explain why gallerygoers tend to consist of people with a professional connection to art -- that is, those who either create art, collect art, write about art or curate art for museum exhibitions. Many of them are personally acquainted with one another, and will nod amiably when they pass on a sidewalk.
Such exchanges are a definitive feature of gallerygoing, and create the illusion that the art world is an intimate place, when in fact it is atomized, rivalrous and largely impersonal. In an odd throwback to Victorian etiquette, gallerygoers sign their names in guest books left open on the front counter of most galleries, then discreetly scan the other names on the page in anticipation of who they might see (or try to avoid) that day.
Naturally, there are a few interlopers. "Every so often," said Jay Gorney, an owner of the Gorney Bravin & Lee Gallery in Chelsea, "I might see a disinterested person, like a lawyer who goes to galleries the same way he might have a picnic in Central Park on a sunny day. It's a diversion."
But such stragglers are rare. "Artists are curious about everything," said Paula Cooper, who owns a gallery in Chelsea that bears her name. "They listen to music, they read books, they go to concerts. So why don't musicians and actors come to see art shows at the galleries? It's amazing how ignorant musicians are about art."
Truth be told, it is not only musicians who feel estranged from contemporary art. On Saturday afternoons, the sidewalks of SoHo resemble a subway platform at rush hour, but the passers-by are far more likely to be shopping for a postmodern lampshade than ducking into the galleries.
Then there is Morley Safer, the "60 Minutes" correspondent and modern-art basher, who recently said at a luncheon at the Guggenheim, "I have visited galleries on three occasions, and I never plan to go back."
If Mr. Safer and others like him are unwilling to make the effort, the art world functions just fine without them. A few years ago, the gallery scene moved from SoHo to the Wild West -- namely, Chelsea, around 10th Avenue in the 20's, where there is only one home-furnishing store, a Portico outlet, and enough remaining auto-repair shops to evoke the neighborhood's blue-collar past. The population strolling the wide, quiet streets consists mostly of gallerygoers and remains undiluted by shoppers.
THE power block is 24th Street, between 10th and 11th Avenues. Here, in low-lying brick buildings that once were garages, newly renovated art palaces are lined up side by side: the Barbara Gladstone Gallery, Metro Pictures, the Matthew Marks Gallery, Andrea Rosen, Luhring Augustine and, at the end of block, within sight of the Hudson River, the Gagosian Gallery. Unlike SoHo or Greenwich Village before it, which were settled by quaintly impecunious bohemians, Chelsea was colonized by art dealers. For the first time, they bought spaces instead of renting them, which means they cannot be driven out should the neighborhood ever experience a Gap invasion.
If the galleries lack a mass audience, an economist might point out that their survival does not depend on a mass audience. It takes at least 250,000 visitors to turn an exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art into a hit, but it takes only one high-rolling collector to turn a gallery show into a sellout. Unlike museums, galleries do not have to think about box-office draw, which gives them a flexibility, a capacity for aesthetic adventure and promiscuity, that museums might envy.
Curiously enough, two New York museums are making news this spring with shows that seek to simulate the experience of gallerygoing. "Greater New York," at the P. S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, the newly annexed Queens branch of the Museum of Modern Art, and the "2000 Biennial" exhibition at the Whitney Museum of American Art, round up work by enough young, unknown artists to start a college. The shows are roughly tantamount to seeing 100 gallery shows under one roof.
But, alas, it is not the same, at least not in the eyes of gallery rats.
"The problem with the P. S. 1 show," said Bill Arning, the chief curator of the M.I.T. List Center for Visual Arts in Cambridge, Mass., "is that you have the authority of MOMA behind each and every work, the power of Picasso and the grandeur of modernism, whereas when you go to a gallery, there is no authority figure saying, 'This is something you should care about.' Galleries license the audience to make up its own mind."
On the other hand, an institution cannot be fairly vilified for the very qualities that define its excellence. Museums are valued because they order and classify the world's riotous jumble of objects. Not unlike great paintings or sculptures, museums make meaning out of chaos. Ideally, they separate the first-rate from the duds, elevate taste and present the achievements of civilization at their shining best.
Then again, at a time when most museums favor crowd-pleasing exhibitions that can make it hard to see a work of art without peering through someone's bouffant hairdo, gallerygoing represents what museumgoing once was -- a chance to gratify your art yearnings without having to stand in line.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scrutinizing miniatures by Karin Sanders at a gallery in Chelsea, top; art on the street, left; gallery hopping in the neighborhood. (Photographs by Rahav Segev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEE GALLERY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART; MUSEUMS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); WRITERS (84%); ART COLLECTING (78%); HISTORY (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: SOLOMON, DEBORAH

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



494 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section H; Page 21; Column 1; Museums 

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW POPULISM;
Once Confined to the Wings, Photography Becomes a Star

BYLINE: By TESSA DeCARLO; Tessa DeCarlo writes about the arts from the Napa Valley of California.

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO

 BODY:
THE Museum of Photographic Arts in Balboa Park here used to be confined to a cramped 7,000-square-foot space tucked behind a stodgy sports museum carpeted in AstroTurf. The photography museum's new home, which opened April 4, has not only a highly visible entrance on the park's main avenue, but also state-of-the-art quarters with four times as much space.
Until recently, the only dedicated photography gallery at the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston was on the side of a stairwell on the museum's lower floor. Last month the museum opened a second building, with a spacious first-floor gallery for photography, prints and drawings, as well as study and storage areas for the photography department. 
 "I used to joke that in most museums in America, photography was on the way to either the restroom or the restaurant," said Anne Tucker, the photography curator at the Houston museum. "Now, that's not necessarily so."
Accessible, stylish, diverse and relatively affordable -- embraced by contemporary artists, celebrity collectors and the public -- photography has become a hot ticket. So as the booming economy increases art museums' wherewithal for building their collections and expanding their galleries, more are giving attention and space to a medium that was struggling to get into museums only a few decades ago.
"For a long time, photography internalized the message that it was a secondhand, second-class medium, but over time that's been changing," said Arthur Ollman, the director of the Museum of Photographic Arts. "Now a critical mass has been achieved, and even institutions as sluggish as museums have had to recognize that photography has to be taken very, very seriously."
During the past 17 years, Mr. Ollman has overseen the growth of the museum from a nomadic institution with neither a collection nor a permanent home to a well-equipped institution in a prime location. The museum has been in Balboa Park since it opened in 1983, but until this year was confined to the space behind the Hall of Champions sports museum. Despite these unprepossessing quarters, the museum drew up to 75,000 visitors a year and originated critically acclaimed and widely traveled exhibitions.
Now the Hall of Champions has moved elsewhere in the park and the museum has spread out. Its new home has almost twice the exhibition space, as well as classrooms, a library, a 238-seat theater and preparation and storage areas with temperature-controlled vaults for black-and-white and color photographs.
The space, designed by David Raphael Singer, a local architect, is an appropriate setting for the museum's collection, which has grown to almost 6,000 items spanning the history of photography, and a library of more than 20,000 volumes. The reopened museum's inaugural exhibition, "Expanded Visions," shows off more than 170 highlights from the collection, including daguerreotypes, classic works by Dorothea Lange and Ansel Adams, and contemporary photographs by Sally Mann and Abelardo Morell.
Photography's increasing popularity is evident in other parts of the country, too. Most new museum buildings, like the Getty Center in Los Angeles and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, have plenty of space for photographic exhibitions and preservation, storage and study.
In addition, museums housed in older buildings have been renovated. A year and a half ago, the Art Institute of Chicago dug through one of its bearing walls to expand its photography-storage vaults. It was a good investment, said its curator, David Travis, because the institute's last three photography shows each drew about 70,000 visitors.
Even the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York had no photography department until 1992 and no permanent photography gallery until 1997. In February, the Metropolitan opened a research center devoted to the archives of Walker Evans and marked the occasion with a comprehensive retrospective, which runs through May 14. This week, the museum unveiled a show of large-scale modern photographs from its collection in a new exhibition space in the contemporary art wing.
Although photography has been striving for artistic legitimacy since it was first invented, its ascent from museum stepchild to grown-up has its roots in the 1960's, when Andy Warhol, Robert Rauschenberg and other art luminaries incorporated photographic techniques into their work. "After many years of getting very little attention from anyone but a handful of cheerleaders, photography got injected into the high-art tradition," said Peter Galassi, the curator of photography at the Museum of Modern Art. "And after that it never went away."
SINCE that time, Mr. Ollman estimates, the number of American museums with photography departments jumped to about 200 from a dozen. Photography departments also opened in art schools and universities, and the publication of photography books and scholarly articles flourished. Artists as disparate as Cindy Sherman, Chuck Close and Gerhard Richter made photography a central part of their practice. And a growing community of collectors began pushing the prices of all kinds of photographs, including antique albums and contemporary styles.
"When I got into this field in the late 1960's, a million dollars could buy you every important photograph ever made, with enough left over to build a pretty good gallery," Mr. Ollman said. "Today you can spend $1 million on a really nice portfolio of two pieces."
The increased value of photographs has in turn encouraged museums to take them more seriously, especially because they can be cheaper than other artworks.
"For most institutions, this one included, the options to build your paintings collection in a really significant way are limited," said Malcolm Daniel, the Metropolitan's associate curator of photography. "With photography, there's still wonderful material bubbling to the surface, both historical and contemporary. And while the prices seem astonishing compared to where they were 10 years ago, they're modest compared to what you have to pay for a top-notch piece of antiquity or old master drawing. With photography it's still possible to create a great collection."
Even as photography breaks into the canon, its presence is helping to blur museums' traditional categories.
For example, the barriers that formerly kept paintings, drawings and photographs sequestered in separate galleries are crumbling as contemporary artists' mixtures of photography and other techniques free curators to mix media as well.
Thus the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington is adding photography, video and computer art to this year's edition of its 92-year-old painting biennial. The move "is an obvious extension of what we've been doing for several years now," said Philip Brookman, the curator of photography and media arts at the Corcoran. "The distinction between media is no longer relevant in the year 2000."
Photography also continues to challenge the very idea of what art is. So while the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art plans shows on the art-photography icons Diane Arbus and Ansel Adams, in recent years its photography department has also presented influential exhibitions featuring such distinctly nonart photography as police mug shots, geological survey photographs and anonymous snapshots. The Metropolitan is following suit this summer by showing "vernacular" snapshots.
Most photography departments in a growing number of other institutions now include cinema, video and computer art, as well as artists whose work mixes photographic processes with painting, drawing and other art techniques. "The dialogue with painting, with film, with other media," Mr. Ollman said, "just keeps getting more exciting."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sandra Wagner, left, and Natalie Fiocre examining prints at the Museum of Photographic Arts in San Diego.; The Museum of Photographic Arts in San Diego has everything its director, Arthur Ollman, could ask for, including a 238-seat theater. (Photographs by Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CHAMPIONS BIOTECHNOLOGY INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; MUSEUMS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (97%); PHOTOGRAPHY (94%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ART COLLECTING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (68%); 

PERSON: DECARLO, TESSA ARTHUR OLLMAN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



495 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 2610 words

HEADLINE: A Springtime Rite Worth a Year's Wait

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: LATROBE, Pa.

 BODY:
AMONG golfers, this town of 10,000 about an hour's drive east of Pittsburgh is known for Arnold Palmer, who was born here. Among beer drinkers, it is known for Rolling Rock, the malty lager in the long-neck green bottles, which is brewed here. Among serious sundae scholars, all three of them, it is known as the birthplace of the banana split.
But among committed cooks, it is known for Jamison Farm, between Latrobe and Crabtree, which produces some of the nation's best lamb -- firm yet tender, younger, paler and tastier than supermarket lamb. 
 Like his father, John Jamison used to make his living selling what lies beneath the gently rolling foothills of the Allegheny Mountains here in Westmoreland County: bituminous coal. Now, he and his wife, Sukey, make their living from the bluegrass that covers the hillsides of their 210-acre farm. Their sheep and lambs, 300 to 500 at any one time, are raised almost entirely on that grass, instead of the grain used by big feedlots.
Lamb is a great favorite in Europe. Springtime abbacchio is beloved of Romans; Romney Marsh lamb and agneau pre-sale come from animals raised near the English Channel in England and France; Sisteron lamb is raised in Provence, and those blessed with palates more exquisite than mine detect hints of wild thyme and rosemary in it; Pauillac lamb makes a perfect foil for the great Pauillac wines like Chateau Latour.
But it is no big deal in the United States. The average American eats only a pound of lamb a year, according to the American Sheep Industry Association in Englewood, Colo., compared with 66 pounds of beef.
Most of the year, American lamb goes mainly to chefs and to home cooks with roots in Greece, Ireland and other countries that eat a lot of lamb. The exception is the Easter season. An ancient symbol of rebirth, the sacrifice of a lamb is a springtime Christian ritual shared with other religions, including Judaism and Islam. In a modified form, it has survived into this secular age.
My wife, Betsey, grew up in a house where lamb chops were a weekly staple (with mint jelly, of course), and to this day she orders them instead of beef at steakhouses. I would never pass up a New York sirloin.
But we find common ground on the Easter menu: always a leg of lamb, roasted rare with garlic and rosemary, carved into long, thin slices in the French style and served with a bubbling potato gratin. Plus local asparagus, if the spring is warm enough or if Easter falls late enough.
Befores and afters are subject to arbitration.
At our house, at least, the Easter feast has four virtues: 1) It tastes gloriously fresh, rich and herby. 2) Like tulips and income-tax forms and daylight saving time, it reassures us that we have all made it through another winter. 3) It all but demands the grandest, dustiest bottle of claret in the cellar. And 4) It gives the old man a chance to show off his nifty manche a gigot, an antique French gadget that looks like a medieval torture instrument; a gift from my chum, Morley Safer, another lamb lover, it clamps on to the protruding shank bone and makes carving a cinch.
THE Jamisons' is no mom-and-pop operation. They slaughter between 4,000 and 5,000 animals a year, which means, at an average weight of about 40 pounds a head, that they are producing 80 to 100 tons of lamb a year -- a far cry from their halting beginnings in 1976. They started with six sheep in the lyrically named township of Pleasant Unity, Pa., not far from here, hoping to sell the wool. That didn't work, so they switched from wool to meat and moved in 1985, with a flock grown to 200 sheep, to their present home, a modest white frame building that dates from the early 1870's.
Mr. Jamison, a burly, cheery 53-year-old, and Mrs. Jamison, fit and lanky at 51, met in high school and attended Washington and Jefferson College in Washington, Pa., together. They migrated gradually to the countryside, opting for full-time farm life when the coal trade turned sour. They picked up much of what they know about lamb from county extension agents and their children's 4-H Club friends.
"We didn't know which end of the animal we were supposed to feed," Mr. Jamison confided over a hearty kitchen-table lunch of braised lamb shanks, claret and Mrs. Jamison's home-baked bread and brownies.
It was much worse than that, countered Mrs. Jamison: "We didn't know anything about anything."
Early on, Mr. Jamison discovered the writings of Louis Bromfield. A novelist who lived in France between the world wars, he returned to Mansfield, Ohio, where he was born, to turn a worn-out tract of land into Malabar Farm, a showplace that was nationally known in the 1940's. Bromfield described grass as "the great healer," and Mr. Jamison adopted him as a hero.
Eventually, the Jamisons heard about a method of rearing lambs that had been developed in France by a scientist named Andre Voisin. Called "intensive rotational grazing," it is an agricultural perpetual motion machine that makes grazing economically and environmentally viable. It is also one of the major things that sets Jamison lamb apart.
The Jamisons buy 8- to 12-week-old lambs from local farmers (they are rebuilding their flock of ewes, but even with 600 ewes, they would produce only 900 lambs a year, not enough for their needs). The lambs are a cross between English breeds, Suffolks and black-faced Hampshires, raised for their meat, and smaller, white-faced Dorsets, well adapted to the grass here.
For roughly nine months a year, the Jamisons' animals eat nothing but grass. They are moved every day or two, with the help of Border collies, from one enclosure to another. When they go into a paddock or pasture, the grass there is four to eight inches tall; when they leave, Mr. Jamison said, pointing to the tile floor in the kitchen, "it's like that."
"Do they all eat all day long?" Betsey wanted to know.
"That's what they do for a living," Mr. Jamison said. "We raise grass. The lambs harvest it."
The genius of the system is this: in nibbling the grass down to a nub, the sheep expose the white clover underneath. A legume, the clover helps to build up the nitrogen level in the soil, greatly enriching it. That, plus sheep droppings, makes the grass grow back, and after three weeks or so, the cycle can begin again. (As long ago as the farm depression of the early 1920's, I learned from "American Dreamer," a new biography of the farm editor and politician Henry A. Wallace, he was urging Iowa farmers to plant crops of clover.)
Only in deepest winter are the lambs hand-fed, mostly with hay and corn raised without chemicals. Jamison Farm itself uses no herbicides or pesticides, and the animals get no hormones or antibiotics.
Slaughtered when three to six months old, later than European milk-fed lambs but much earlier than many American lambs, which are sometimes almost a year old, the Jamison animals yield meat that looks faintly pink, more like veal than most lamb. Because the animals move around so much, their muscles are better toned, like an athlete's, which makes the meat lean but not the slightest bit chewy, at least in the samples that we tasted.
Six years ago, to make sure that their lambs were killed properly and the carcasses chilled slowly, to avoid toughening them, the Jamisons bought their own processing plant on the other side of Latrobe. A crew of three runs it. But Mr. Jamison, who looks every bit the gentleman farmer in his brown suede shoes and bib overalls, puts on a rubber apron and pitches in on the messy jobs of bleeding and skinning the animals when needed.
THE Jamisons' big break came almost by chance, when the French-born chef Jean-Louis Palladin, then in Washington, tasted their lamb in 1987. His palate pleased, he eventually spread the word to French colleagues also based in the United States, including Jean-Georges Vongerichten and Daniel Boulud in New York. From there, it was mostly easy going; recently I spotted Jamison lamb on the menu at Tru, Chicago's hot new restaurant, and restaurants at Disney World and in Las Vegas are among the best customers.
Other high-quality lamb is produced in Sonoma County, Calif., in Colorado and in Virginia, where Jamie Nicoll of Summerfield Farm, near Culpeper, produces both premium lamb and veal. Bruce Aidells, author of "The Complete Meat Cookbook" (Houghton Mifflin, 1998), said he considered the Jamisons and Mr. Nicoll the top American producers. Among imports, he praised Australian lamb brought in fresh by Superior Farms of Dixon, Calif., which also sells American lamb, in preference to frozen New Zealand lamb.
But none of their competitors have gained quite the following among chefs the Jamisons have.
That may be because of the mild flavor and smell of Jamison lamb. Many Americans find the aroma of roasting lamb unattractive, often because it is too fatty or has been cooked too long, or both, and describe the taste as oily or greasy, which Mr. Jamison attributes to corn feeding.
Two-thirds of the Jamisons' production goes to restaurants. The rest is sold directly to the public, by way of a toll-free telephone number (800-237-5262), a fax number (724-837-2287) or the Internet (www.jamisonfarm.com). It isn't cheap. Two racks cost $88, two legs $78, a dozen loin chops $78. But a whole lamb, cut to order, is a better deal at $205. Most of the items can be ordered either fresh or frozen.
In addition to doing much of the work with the lambs in the pastures and paddocks, Mrs. Jamison is a talented cook whose farmhouse kitchen shelters a huge South Bend stove, and she has developed a range of prepared lamb dishes, some in cooperation with Mr. Palladin. They include stews, soups, sausages and absolutely delectable lamb pies, which are also for sale.
By now the Jamisons are steeped in lamb lore. For decades I have used the word "bellwether" in political stories to describe a precinct or county that tends to vote the same way as a larger entity, like a city or state. I had no clue where the word came from. Mr. Jamison told me. A "wether" is a castrated ram, he explained, and a "bellwether" is a wether wearing a bell, which leads the flock.
The two are also full of stories, some funny, that illustrate how wide the knowledge gap between producers and consumers of foodstuffs has become in the modern world. A California woman asked Mr. Jamison on the phone, he said, what the difference was between veal and lamb; she seemed unsatisfied when he replied, "Well, one of them goes 'moo' and the other 'baa.' " Another potential customer, a tender heart, wanted to know whether she could get lamb chops without causing a lamb to lose its life.
On the wall of the Jamisons' kitchen hangs a picture of the two of them with the actress Jodie Foster. We spotted it on the way out, and Mrs. Jamison told us with a hint of self-mockery, "We supplied the lambs for 'The Silence of the Lambs.' "
 
MALAYSIAN LAMB CHOPS WITH CAULIFLOWER PUREE AND SWISS CHARD
 
Adapted from Tru, Chicago
Time: 1 hour 15 minutes, plus 3 hours' marinating
 
For the marinade:
5 tablespoons oyster sauce
2 tablespoons soy sauce
3 tablespoons rice wine vinegar
3 tablespoons sesame oil
 1/2 cup light olive oil
1 tablespoon Asian chili sauce
1 tablespoon fish sauce
8 Jamison Farm lamb loin chops
For the vegetables:
1 medium head cauliflower, cut into florets
10 tablespoons butter, cubed
 1/2 cup heavy cream
Salt and freshly ground white pepper
1 bunch red or green Swiss chard, washed and dried
For the crumb coating:
 3/4 cup Dijon mustard
 1/4 pound brioche
1 stalk lemon grass, in 1-inch pieces
3 kaffir lime leaves (available at Asian markets)
4 cloves garlic, peeled
1 tablespoon chopped fresh ginger
1 teaspoon chopped cilantro
1 tablespoon chopped mint
1 tablespoon paprika
1 teaspoon turmeric.
 1. Prepare marinade: In a large bowl, combine all ingredients for marinade except lamb chops. Add chops and coat well. Cover and refrigerate three to eight hours. Allow chops to come to room temperature.
2. Prepare cauliflower puree: In a medium saucepan, combine cauliflower florets and 6 tablespoons butter. Cover and place over low heat. Steam until cauliflower is tender, about 15 minutes. Heat cream until hot but not boiling, and add to cauliflower. Using an immersion blender or food processor, puree cauliflower mixture until very smooth. Season with salt and pepper and keep warm.
3. Roughly chop Swiss chard, separating leaves from stems. Place a large saute pan over medium heat, and add remaining 4 tablespoons butter. When butter has melted, add chard stems. Saute until stems are tender, about 10 minutes. Add leaves, and saute until wilted, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat and keep warm.
4. Prepare chops: Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Place a large seasoned or nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Remove chops from marinade, and pat dry with paper towels. Add chops to pan and sear well. Transfer to a large bowl. Add mustard, and turn chops until coated. In a food processor, process brioche to obtain 2 cups of fine crumbs. Transfer to a large bowl and set aside. In food processor, chop lemon grass pieces until minced. Add kaffir lime leaves, garlic and ginger, and mince. Add cilantro, mint, paprika and turmeric and mince. Transfer mixture to bowl of brioche crumbs, and blend well.
5. Pat a light coating of crumb mixture on chops (do not dredge chops or coating will be too thick) and place chops on a baking sheet. Roast according to taste, using an instant-read thermometer to test center of each chop: 140 degrees for medium-rare chops with a lightly browned crust.
6. To serve, divide Swiss chard among four plates. Top chard with two chops a plate. Add a portion of cauliflower to each plate. Serve immediately.
 Yield: 4 servings.
 
MOROCCAN-SPICED LAMB BURGERS WITH PEPPER RELISH
 
Adapted from the White Dog Cafe, Philadelphia
Time: 25 minutes, plus preparation of grill
 
1 pound Jamison Farm ground lamb
2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro
2 tablespoons chopped fresh mint
2 tablespoons chopped fresh oregano
1 tablespoon chopped garlic
1 teaspoons sherry vinegar
1 teaspoon molasses
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin
 1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
 1/2 teaspoon hot red pepper flakes
 1/2 teaspoon salt, or to taste
 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
4 pita bread rounds
4 ounces feta cheese, crumbled
Pepper Relish (see recipe).
 1. Prepare a charcoal or gas grill. (Burgers may also be sauteed in a skillet with a bit of oil.)
2. In a large bowl, combine lamb, cilantro, mint, oregano, garlic, vinegar, molasses, cumin, allspice, pepper flakes, salt and pepper. Mix well, and shape into four patties.
3. Lightly grill unsliced pita bread, and set aside. Grill burgers to taste, about 5 minutes a side for medium-rare. Place each burger to a side of a pita round, add a quarter of the cheese, and top with pepper relish to taste. Serve immediately, folding pita in half to encase burger.
Yield: 4 servings.
 
PEPPER RELISH
 
Time: 20 minutes
 
1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil
1 red bell pepper, thinly sliced
1 yellow bell pepper, thinly sliced
1 small red onion, thinly sliced
 1/4 cup red wine vinegar
1 teaspoon fennel seeds
1 teaspoon coriander seeds
1 tablespoon sugar
Pinch of salt.
 1. In a medium enameled, glass or other nonreactive saucepan, combine all ingredients.
2. Cover saucepan and place over medium-low heat. Cook, stirring occasionally, until vegetables are soft, about 20 minutes. Serve warm, or cover and refrigerate for up to one week.
Yield: 2 cups.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: TO SAFELY GRAZE -- John and Sukey Jamison, above, raise lambs at their 210-acre farm in western Pennsylvania. The animals, raised on grass, are moved around every day or so by Border collies. (Photographs by David A. DeNoma for The New York Times)(pg. F1); PRIZED TENDERNESS -- The lamb from Jamison Farm has a considerable following among New York chefs. Left, the spring lamb trio at Cafe Boulud. Far left, the loin of lamb with fennel and artichoke hearts at Picholine. (Photographs by Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (90%); FRANCE (75%); EUROPE (75%); GREECE (71%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (75%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: JAMISON FARM (LATROBE, PA)

ORGANIZATION: JAMISON FARM (LATROBE, PA)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA; UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (90%); FRANCE (75%); EUROPE (75%); GREECE (71%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (75%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: MEAT; RECIPES MAMMALS (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); EASTER SEASON (89%); SHEEP FARMING (89%); RELIGION (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); GOLF (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (76%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (76%); MOUNTAINS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (61%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR ARNOLD DANIEL PALMER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



496 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Workplace 

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Those Who Do Their Jobs Religiously

BYLINE: By JULIE FLAHERTY 

 BODY:
Last year, Our Lady Help of Christians, a Roman Catholic church in Newton, Mass., was host to 155 baptisms, 110 funerals and more weddings -- 96 -- than any other church in the Boston Archdiocese. Add in the Masses, support-group sessions, prayer meetings and school plays and scheduling becomes an administrative juggling act.
Clearly, Mary Ellen Cocks, a pastoral associate who was sitting at a 7:45 a.m. parish staff meeting recently, had reason for distress when a colleague violated the sanctity of the schedule book. 
 "I was not happy when I saw a 9 o'clock funeral written in after we put in for a 9:30 rehearsal," she said sternly, sending the hint of a glare across the conference-room table. Luckily, the funeral reservation had been made for a contingency, not an actual event, so she added, "I'm just praying that nobody dies."
Like most of her colleagues at the table, Ms. Cocks is not ordained, but she takes her job seriously. She is one of nine full-time, nonclergy employees who run the business side of Our Lady's, as parishioners call it.
Churches are first and foremost houses of worship, of course, but they are workplaces, too, and together they make up a pretty big economic sector. The 352,000 full-time clergy in the United States, for example, outnumber the nation's 266,000 psychologists and 310,000 bartenders. Add all the lay people who work full-time or part-time in churches, synagogues and mosques, from music directors to secretaries and janitors, and the religious work force probably surpasses one million.
And to make all the religious events happen, they have to do what people in any other businesses do: hold meetings, write memorandums, resolve conflicts, plan budgets, meet deadlines, hire and fire people and deal with grumpy bosses.
As the early morning conference at Our Lady's shows, the Catholic Church is responding to a worsening shortage of priests and nuns by recruiting people from the secular world. More lay people than seminarians are now seeking degrees in Catholic ministry, said Scott Appleby, director of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism at the University of Notre Dame. "It's very difficult to run a modern parish without a specialized core of pastoral ministers," he said. "Some will be business managers and keep the books and worry about the physical plant. Others will be specialists in religious education."
The Rev. Walter Cuenin had two assistant priests when he came to Our Lady's as pastor in 1993; now he has none. But his staff now includes three pastoral associates; a business manager; an office manager; a parish secretary; a principal to run the high school; a director of religious education and another of youth ministry; two custodians; and a music director.
In short, he never worries about whether there will be enough processional candles. "We're trying to model the way the church is going to be, one priest with a whole group of lay people," he said.
Father Cuenin recruited Marie LaBollita, a nun, as a pastoral associate six years ago, and a year later he enticed Ms. Cocks, who has 25 years of experience in religious education, away from another parish.
Lawrence Malloy, who became director of youth ministry five years ago, said he knew from his first interview with Father Cuenin that he could talk back, even when it came to church doctrine. "You're allowed to speak your mind," Mr. Malloy said. "I don't see Walter or Marie as different from the rest of us. That all fades away."
Like any good chief executive, Father Cuenin has learned how to delegate authority. Ms. Cocks is in charge of the logistics for baptisms and of liturgical planning, while Sister LaBollita counsels converts to Catholicism and ministers to the sick. Thomas Leahy, the third pastoral associate, oversaw a four-year, $3 million renovation of the 126-year-old church that was completed last year. He points to a three-drawer file cabinet in his office that is devoted solely to paperwork for the project.
Before joining the church staff 16 years ago, Mr. Leahy worked as a buyer for a department store chain until he became fed up with the corporate bureaucracy. Now 70, he rarely complains about working from 8 a.m. until 9:30 many nights. "I've already had four meetings this morning," he said as he took a break shortly after 10:30. "But this is who I am, and this is my family."
Father Cuenin doesn't mind poring over the blueprints for the redesigned parking lot or discussing whether there should be a trumpeter at the 11:30 Mass. But with the little details taken care of ("I don't have to be over there to make sure the microphones are working," he said with satisfaction), he has focused on increasing membership at the once-stagnant parish. To attract the increasingly diverse parishioners, Masses are now said in Italian, French and Spanish. (He speaks all three.) And in an ambitious outreach program, the church has held 50 separate meetings with small groups of parishioners since January.
The efforts paid off. Close to 2,000 people attend one of the four weekend Masses, a huge increase from four years ago that means standing room only at some services.
Collections are up sharply, enabling Our Lady's to absorb the huge cost of hiring all that secular help. Unlike priests and nuns, who take vows of celibacy and often live on church grounds, lay workers have to worry about mortgage payments and their children's college educations. "It costs money, because you have to pay people a living wage," Father Cuenin said. "And I think a lot of churches are not prepared for that yet."
It isn't just the extra expense that gives some churches pause; it is also the threat to tradition. It is no secret around Our Lady's that the pastoral associates would like to take on duties that are now the domain of the priests, like performing the sacraments.
Ms. Cocks flipped through her Liturgical Desk Calendar at a recent meeting, looking for a vacancy at the baptismal font. "I'm totally filled for April, for May and for the first week of June," she said. "I was at lunch 45 minutes and when I got back there were four more requests for baptisms."
She gave Father Cuenin a meaningful look. Another task for him. "I hate to do it Walter," she said with just a touch of sarcasm, "but until they tell me I can do baptisms. . . . "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Walter Cuenin and Mary Ellen Cocks get ready for Easter at Our Lady Help of Christians in Newton, Mass. (Photographs by Michael Quan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH;

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH;

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PRIESTS; NUNS; SHORTAGES; WOMEN RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); BUDGETS (70%); MUSIC (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: APPLEBY, SCOTT; COCKS, MARY ELLEN; FLAHERTY, JULIE; CUENIN, WALTER (REV) WALTER CUENIN (90%); LADY HELP (77%); MARY ELLEN COCKS (72%); MARIE LABOLLITA (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



497 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: FOOD STUFF

BYLINE: By Florence Fabricant 

 BODY:

When Easter Baskets Need a Little Something
For Easter baskets that beg to be filled with traditional goodies like pastel jelly beans, yellow marshmallow chicks, colorful jelly fruit slices and foil-wrapped chocolate bunnies and eggs, an excellent source with reasonable prices (starting at 99 cents a pound) is Economy Candy, on the Lower East Side at 108 Rivington Street (Essex Street). The store also carries Perugina eggs in bright foil wrappers, each with a surprise inside, $4.99 and $6.99, and ready-made Easter baskets at $15.95 and $25.95. Economy, which has been run by the same family since 1937, also sells ingredients for holiday baking, including nuts, almond paste and candied fruit peel.
 
Fresh From France
A branch of Cucina & Company has moved into Macy's Cellar, offering what busy New Yorkers have come to expect in a retail food complex: lots of prepared food, smoked fish, caviar and cheese, a pizza station, rotisserie foods, a salad bar, soup, and packaged coffees, teas and condiments. And let's not forget elaborate pastries from Payard Patisserie on the Upper East Side. 
 But the stars of the show are the breads flown in from the Poilane bakery in Paris. This is Poilane's first such retail arrangement in the United States. The breads are huge natural sourdough rounds called miches. Whole miches weigh four pounds and are $22 each; halves, $11; and quarter-loaves, $5.75. The shop even sells the bread by the slice -- 50 cents. Lionel Poilane, the bakery's owner, says that a miche will stay fresh almost a week if it is placed cut-side down on a bread board and loosely covered with a damp linen towel. Poilane butter cookies are due shortly.
 
Pickled Lemons, Quickly
Want to make a reasonably authentic Moroccan lemon chicken but do not have the three or four weeks it takes to pickle the lemons? Fairway, 2127 Broadway (74th Street) and 2328 12th Avenue (132nd Street), has delicious preserved lemons, which are made in Provence and imported from Sudolives, a company in Paris. They are sold in bulk at $4.99 a pound (about five lemons) and are excellent not just for chicken tagine with lemon and olives, but also minced to fold into a seafood salad, to scatter over roast lamb or veal or even to add a tangy note to a vinaigrette.
 
Balducci's Expands
Balducci's, now owned by Sutton Place Gourmet, the Washington-based chain, has moved in with its new parents. A Balducci's shop has opened in the Sutton Place Gourmet in Bethesda, Md. The new shop mostly sells Balducci's prepared foods and packaged products.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: BUNNIES, CHICKS, ETC. Economy Candy on the Lower East Side has Easter goodies. (Suzanne De Chillo/The New York Times); FREQUENT FLIERS -- Poilane bread, made in France, is now sold at Macy's Cellar. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS445299 ALL OTHER SPECIALTY FOOD STORES (51%); SIC5499 MISCELLANEOUS FOOD STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMY CANDY (STORE); CUCINA & COMPANY; MACY, R H, & CO INC BALDUCCI'S (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMY CANDY (STORE); CUCINA & COMPANY; MACY, R H, & CO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

SUBJECT: EASTER AND HOLY WEEK; FOOD; CANDY; BREAD; BAKERIES AND BAKED PRODUCTS RETAIL BAKERIES (90%); EASTER SEASON (90%); BAKERIES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (89%); BAKED GOODS (87%); PREPARED FOODS (75%); CHEESE (73%); SEAFOOD (72%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (54%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE LIONEL POILANE (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



498 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: THE BOSS;
Digital Revolution in Iran

BYLINE: By Homayoon Hariri and written With Vivienne Walt 

 BODY:
I was working on my computer science graduate project in Tehran when the Islamic revolution broke out in Iran in 1979. It was so exciting; it's hard to describe the feeling. I was 28. Everyone took part in the revolution, hand in hand. There was no difference between religious people and those who had their own ideas. We just hoped for a better country.
I grew up in Tehran and got my electrical engineering degree from Shiraz University. If I hadn't gone into computers, I would have become a heart surgeon or maybe a university professor. But during my military training, for about 18 months I was working in an army computer center, and I really liked it. 
 Some of my friends left the country. When I was finishing my bachelor's degree I thought about continuing my studies overseas. But then, after a while, I forgot all about it. I've had short business trips to England, France, Germany and even Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates. But I wouldn't want to live in any of them. I thought I could help Iran by using my expertise.
When I graduated, I got a job for the government, running the computer department for the railways. After about 10 years there, I started my own company. That was nearly 12 years ago. We develop software and create management-information systems.
We are very interested in exporting our software, like India does. But we are under economic sanctions.
We've discussed ideas with about 10 companies in Canada, England, Dubai and Saudi Arabia. But whenever it gets to the point of signing a contract, everything freezes.
We signed a contact with a company in Sheffield, England, to buy software from them. But about eight months ago they told us they'd been bought by an American company and had to end their relationship with us. We'd made about a $30,000 investment.
I think the best kind of business connection we could have with the United States would be to work on outsourcing.
They could order us to develop software for them. We'd do it even better than India. The rate of pay is very low here. We pay software engineers about $50 a day. But it won't happen until the United States lifts the sanctions.
Our engineers are very young. They've heard a lot of stories about young Americans getting very rich. Some have emigrated to Canada, others are looking for jobs. But people love the environment of this company.
Most of the software we use in the company is Microsoft. When friends fly to Dubai, they bring back software we need. But they can't give us any training or support, and we always have problems. They have no representatives in Iran, so we have to solve all our problems ourselves.
The Internet is growing very, very fast in Iran. There's no way to escape it.
In three years' time most of the television sets will be digital and automatically connect to satellite television. That's banned right now. But 10 years ago, VCR's were forbidden; eventually, they had to change the law.
Nobody can prevent people from getting information. When they have information from outside, this will have an influence on people.
I have two children: my son's 24 and is finishing his last year of university, studying software engineering and working with me as a Web designer. My daughter's finishing high school. She wants to study English literature at university. I'm sure they will stay. They both love this country.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: HOMAYOON HARIRI -- Chairman, System Group Tehran (Vivienne Walt for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); ENGLAND (90%); IRAN (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); FRANCE (56%); GERMANY (56%); 

STATE: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); SHIRAZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: SYSTEM GROUP TEHRAN MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: SYSTEM GROUP TEHRAN

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); ENGLAND (90%); IRAN (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); FRANCE (56%); GERMANY (56%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); SHIRAZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (70%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (78%); RELIGION (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); MILITARY TRAINING (75%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (71%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%); 

PERSON: WALT, VIVIENNE; HARIRI, HOMAYOON

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



499 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: Inequality in Retreat

 BODY:

To the Editor:
We agree with William Julius Wilson (Op-Ed, April 12) that equalizing institutions, like public education and unions, are needed to reduce income inequality, but the patient is still gravely ill and there is little remission to celebrate.
The large income gaps of the 1980's widened in the 90's. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the incomes of the best-off Americans rose twice as fast as those of middle-income Americans. The median wealth of nonwhite Americans fell in the 1980's and is today about one-tenth of the average white family's. 
 We know what works; we need to finance solutions equal to the scale of the problem. If we don't reduce inequality now, in this era of unparalleled prosperity, will we ever?
 
LYNN CURTIS
Washington, April 14, 2000
 
The writer is president of the Milton S. Eisenhower Foundation. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: EISENHOWER, MILTON S, FOUNDATION CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); MILTON S EISENHOWER FOUNDATION (56%); MILTON S EISENHOWER FOUNDATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EISENHOWER, MILTON S, FOUNDATION CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); MILTON S EISENHOWER FOUNDATION (56%); MILTON S EISENHOWER FOUNDATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); 

PERSON: CURTIS, LYNN WILLIAM JULIUS WILSON (60%); OP-ED APRIL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



500 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: The Silicon Gulf

 BODY:

To the Editor:
You report (front page, April 18) that in Washington, "officials had spent the weekend reassuring investors that nothing was wrong with the economy." Then stocks rose on Monday. But another news article today describes janitors earning $6.50 to $8 an hour in Silicon Valley, then going "home" to converted garages. 
 Could anything be more wrong than such a gulf -- between those who worry for a weekend about their millions and those who dream about 50 cents or a dollar more an hour?
 
PHILIP J. SMITH
Highland Park, Ill., April 18, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WAGES AND SALARIES; BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BONDS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: SMITH, PHILIP J PHILIP J SMITH HIGHLAND PARK (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



501 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
A Real Nut Case

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
When Seattle Man went to Washington, his activities were coordinated in large part by a Web site, www.a16.org. Browsing the site, I was struck by the critique of the World Bank, written by Robert Naiman -- the activist who threw a pie in the face of Michel Camdessus, the former International Monetary Fund chief, a few months ago. Mr. Naiman's favorite -- indeed only -- example of how bank-imposed policies inflict economic damage is the way the bank "destroyed Mozambique's cashew nut processing industry, by forcing Mozambique to remove export tariffs on raw cashew nuts."
Cashew nuts? It turns out that this is one of those stories that anti-globalists tell over and over, part of the canon that supposedly proves the righteousness of their cause. Such tales rarely get fact-checked; nobody asks whether the moral of the story is really as clear-cut as it seems. So let's look at the truth behind this particular legend. 
 Mozambique's cashews are grown overwhelmingly by small farmers. The great majority of the country's 19 million people live on the land; at least a quarter of them grow cashews. Until 1995 farmers were forced to sell those nuts to a state monopoly at artificially low prices; the state company then processed the nuts, employing about 10,000 workers. In 1995 the processing plants were privatized, bought mainly by foreigners, and the state monopoly was eliminated. But it was replaced by a stiff export tax levied on raw, but not processed, nuts. This in effect prevented the farmers from selling their product on the world market, and forced them to continue selling cheaply to domestic processers.
The World Bank demanded, as a condition for new loans, that this export tax be reduced.
The reason for this demand is familiar to anyone who knows something about the political economy of the third world. In poor countries organized urban workers (and factory owners) typically have far more political clout than much more numerous but illiterate and unorganized farmers; the result is an often extreme policy bias against the countryside. Governments frequently tax the rural poor to subsidize urban industries -- industries whose workers are very badly paid by Western standards, but nonetheless receive much higher wages than most of their compatriots. This case -- in which peasants were forced to sell their crops cheaply in order to protect the jobs of 10,000 processing workers -- fits right into the pattern.
You might try to justify the cashew tax on the grounds that it promotes industrial development, and will eventually make everyone better off. (Did someone say "trickle-down economics"?) But -- again characteristically in such cases -- while processed nuts do command higher prices than raw nuts, Mozambique's nut-processing industry requires imported machinery and other inputs, and the tax on exports discourages raw-nut production. On balance the export tax almost certainly subtracts from, rather than adds to, the country's miserably low income.
The World Bank is evil, then, because it tried to end a policy that not only made Mozambique as a whole poorer, but directly hurt millions of impoverished small farmers. Its high-minded critics want to keep the prices those farmers receive low, on behalf of 10,000 politically influential workers and a handful of foreign factory owners. No doubt the faithful will say it ain't so, that farmers aren't hurt by the export tax because the burden falls on a mysteriously invisible class of rich middlemen. But why should so morally dubious a case -- one in which the bank was defending the interests not of multinational corporations but of starving peasants -- be a touchstone for the opponents of globalization?
The answer, I believe, is that anti-globalists, though they are quite sure that international trade hurts poor countries, have an annoying problem: Most people in those countries want to export more, not less. So the anti-globalists trumpet one of the few cases in which a third-world group actually advocates export restrictions. Somehow nobody notices that this group actually represents a small, relatively privileged minority, and that its demands would directly harm a much larger group of even poorer people. And thus Seattle Man maintains his comfortable sense of moral superiority. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOZAMBIQUE; UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NUTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); TREE NUT FARMING (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); POLITICS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); RIOTS (70%); FARM LABOR (69%); TRENDS (66%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



502 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES

 BODY:

COPPER GAINS. Copper rose as surging United States stocks signaled investors expect the economy to keep growing. In New York, copper for May delivery rose 2.1 cents, or 2.8 percent, to 76.45 cents a pound.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks copper prices (near-month contract), since November 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY FUTURES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



503 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

THE EURO FALLS. The euro dropped after a business survey showed an unexpected drop in confidence last month in the economy of Germany. In New York, the euro settled at 94.80 cents, down from 95.38 on Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since January 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; IFO INSTITUTE EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; IFO INSTITUTE EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); TRENDS (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



504 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Housing Starts Slip 11%, but Higher RatesEscape Blame

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
Housing starts plunged 11.2 percent in March, the largest monthly drop in six years, but the decline was attributed entirely to a slowdown in construction of apartments and other multifamily housing, while single-family housing starts were unchanged.
The Commerce Department said yesterday that overall housing starts for March fell to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1,604,000, down sharply from the February rate of 1,807,000 and well below most analysts' predictions. Single-family housing starts, considered a less volatile and more meaningful reflection of whether interest rates are beginning to crimp construction, stayed about the same, at an annual rate of 1,309,000. 
 Though the news may have somewhat aided the rebound in the stock market, which was hammered on Friday in part because of fears of rising consumer prices, industry officials and analysts said the report that was issued yesterday offered little evidence that interest-rate increases were significantly hurting home sales. In fact, some said the housing market appeared surprisingly strong, considering that the Federal Reserve had raised interest rates five times since last summer.
In contrast to the numbers for single-family homes, housing starts for apartments and other buildings with at least five units fell 41 percent to an annual rate of 272,000 units during March, accounting for almost all the decline in the overall numbers. Similarly, building permits issued in March fell sharply for apartment buildings but were unchanged for single-family houses, the Commerce Department said.
Michael Carliner, an economist with the National Association of Home Builders, attributed the decline in apartment starts partly to an unusually strong February that was helped by warm weather. As for new single-family houses, he said the interest rate increases "clearly have not been enough to have a big effect on construction yet," adding that in surveys builders cite labor shortages as a bigger problem. And although the association's monthly index of builders' optimism was at 62 in April, down from 77 last June, largely because of interest rate concerns, he noted that it was still far above the historical average of about 50.
At Toll Brothers, a builder in Huntingdon Valley, Pa., that specializes in luxury houses, a backlog has steadily risen even as the company has raised prices. The number of refundable deposits placed in March for developments open at least one year rose 5 percent compared with March of last year.
"We were hoping by raising prices to slow that backlog down a little, but so far the market has been pretty able to absorb the price increases," said Fred Cooper, vice president for finance at Toll Brothers. "We've been chugging along. We keep our fingers crossed a little bit with the stock market volatility, but we really haven't seen any market change."
Centex Homes, a unit of the Centex Corporation, a Dallas builder, said that higher interest rates had hurt sales in the first two months of the year but that March and April had been strong.
"We do expect that continued increases in the fed funds rate will translate to increased mortgage rates, which will slow down the housing market during the year," said Tim Eller, chief executive of Centex Homes. But "for us right now, it's a little surprising the market is as strong as it is. We're expecting it to slow, but it's wait and see." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PHM (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (80%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (80%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (80%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT PULTEGROUP INC (80%); CENTEX CORP (60%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; SALES; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES HOUSING STARTS (94%); CONSTRUCTION (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (74%); LABOR SHORTAGES (50%); 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



505 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Protesting, but Why?

BYLINE: By David Frum; David Frum, a fellow at the Manhattan Institute, is the author, most recently, of "How We Got Here: The 70's -- The Decade That Brought You Modern Life (For Better or Worse)."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The anarchist Emma Goldman is supposed to have defiantly cried that she wouldn't join the revolution if she couldn't dance; nearly 100 years later, her spiritual descendants decided that they wouldn't join the revolution if they had to get wet.
On the second day of the demonstrations against the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the clouds over Washington cracked. The city was deluged with rain, and 9,000 of the 10,000 people who had arrived to protest decided to stay in bed. This is the down side of recruiting all those idealistic college students to your cause. They don't go to class when it rains -- and class is held in English. How could they be be expected to trundle through the cold and wet to listen to some Andean Marxist dude rail against the privatization of the Bolivian waterworks in whatever language it is that they speak in Bolivia? 
 So Round Two of the great mobilization against globalization ended in a squelch rather than in the photogenic violence of Seattle. Some of the organizers of the event cheerfully explained that they were undismayed by their failure to disrupt the World Bank-I.M.F. meeting -- or even to draw a crowd. They had, they explained, got their message out.
And what is that message? "We want a system that is democratic, that values the environment and that puts the needs of the world's people before the profits of transnational corporations." You would have found this and similar profundities on the protest organizers' main Web site. But if you wanted to know what approximately such a system would look like, you were very much out of luck.
It's rather funny that people who so bitterly denounce the manipulated politics of our allegedly corporate-controlled society should themselves end up repeating the anarchist equivalent of Dick Morris sound bites. But really: what choice do they have? Once upon a time, the left possessed a clear and coherent vision of a better world. Resources were to be owned collectively rather than individually. Important economic decisions would be made by the state rather than by private managers and owners. Everyone would earn more or less the same amount. This ideal was called socialism, and until the mid-1970's it commanded the assent of a very considerable number of intelligent people.
Today, of course, socialism is as dead as King Tut -- deader, maybe, since people are after all still pretty interested in King Tut. And the death of socialism has simply cut the intellectual guts out of the kind of radicalism espoused by the people who tried to shut the World Bank down.
Who today, for example, believes that railways and steel mills operate more fairly and efficiently when owned by the state? Who believes that a poor country can raise its standard of living by forbidding its citizens to buy foreign goods or technology? For 35 years after World War II, poor nations were told that nationalization and protectionism were the superhighway to prosperity (among the most fervent recommenders was the World Bank itself). It was the catastrophic failure of this approach that discredited Third World socialism. But without it, people like the Washington protesters are left with nothing constructive to say about poverty and development.
Oh, they still know what they hate, of course. They hate limousines and the men who ride in them. They hate big corporations and hair spray and Gap khakis; they hate dams and airports and economists. That list of antipathies isn't exclusive to the radical left -- in fact, almost every item on it would be equally offensive to nationalist movements of the far right. Indeed, in its mistrust of technology, its veneration of folkways and its disdain for electoral politics, the antiglobalization left bears more than a passing resemblance to that far right.
For most of the 20th century, however, the radical left got a better press than the far right because the left had something positive to offer: a coherent and compelling vision of an alternative society. Bereft of that alternative, what remains? Only the hate.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Brian Rea)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BOLIVIA (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); BOLIVIA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); RIOTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); TRENDS (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (55%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%); 

PERSON: FRUM, DAVID KING TUT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



506 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Wall St. Ads Taking Detour On Wary Path

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
On Super Bowl Sunday, viewers expected a spate of wacky commercials from the E*Trade Group, the upstart online broker, and they weren't disappointed. One spot showed a hospital patient who didn't have to worry about health insurance because he had "money coming out the wazoo."
But there was also a commercial about investing for the long term in which the hopes of a father who had counted on a cushy retirement financed by his son's career as a professional basketball player were dashed when his offspring suddenly confided a desire to enter show business. Another spot, centered on a disastrous disaster movie, reminded investors that knowing when to sell might be just as important as knowing when to buy. 
 By introducing a cautionary note into what had been one of the most effusive feel-good campaigns of the last year, the commercials, by Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, were indicative of a new trend in advertising for brokerage firms. Reacting to a recent shift in the investment climate -- not to mention the gut-wrenching plunge in stocks on Friday -- marketers of financial products and services are moderating their pitches, playing down irrational exuberance in favor of counseling balance.
"Financial advertising has gotten less silly," said Marten Hoekstra, executive vice president and marketing director at PaineWebber in New York.
The result has been to cool down considerably a category that had been positively giddy in its ebulliently optimistic assertions about how easy it was to make money by buying stocks and mutual funds. The onslaught of such campaigns, primarily humorous, to promote brokers, online and traditional, has been one of the most noticeable signs of the galloping bull market.
"Those funny ads aren't so funny anymore," Jonathan Bond, co-chairman at Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners in New York, the agency for DLJ Direct, said yesterday. DLJ Direct, an affiliate of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, has been running ads offering investors wry advice like this: "Look both ways before you cross the street. Especially if it's Wall Street."
"People are much more emotionally affected when they lose money than when they make money," Mr. Bond said. "Everybody remembers Black Monday, but who remembers Happy Monday?"
The ads appearing the last few days take a page from the lesson plan developed during past wild times on Wall Street. Like the minicampaigns that ran after sudden sharp downturns in 1987, 1989 and 1998, the special ads focus on themes related to market gyrations. They assume a calm tone that is meant to reassure consumers that the sky is not falling. The ads are low key, almost soothing in the way they stress a long-term perspective and remind investors that what goes up must at least occasionally come down.
For instance, newspaper ads from Fidelity Investments, a unit of FMR, featured a photograph of Peter Lynch, its legendary stock picker, and carried the headline "The market's wild ride shouldn't throw you off course." And Merrill Lynch ran newspaper ads urging investors to "be informed" before they act.
"We think of ourselves as one of the couple of market leaders who set the tone for the investment community," said James Gorman, chief marketing officer at Merrill Lynch in New York, which uses the J. Walter Thompson unit of the WPP Group as its agency. "People need to know where we stand."
"The ads are not prepared in advance," he added, "but we're very attentive to highly volatile markets on behalf of our clients. We don't react to day-to-day blips, but as we think the mood needs stabilizing, we hope we're a sober voice in a hysterical environment."
Sober is a good word to describe the mood that prevails in the campaigns that started turning up in February and March, when cracks began showing in the shiny facade of the so-called New Economy stocks.
For example, PaineWebber ran newspaper ads in mid-March that warned against embracing companies "with no earnings and no well-defined path to ever reaching profitability." The ads were repeated with slight updating on Saturday and Monday.
"We had been talking about a way to articulate a voice of reason about asset allocation and portfolio diversification, directed at the notion of not overexposing yourself to technology," Mr. Hoekstra said.
"We make these plans from time to time, when our strategy is contrarian to Wall Street consensus or investor behavior," he added. "In this case, we had scheduled ads to run in the next couple of weeks, but after Friday's market movement we accelerated the schedule."
One advertiser not changing its plans is Alliance Capital, which since February has run ads intended to deliver wake-up calls to consumers who believe they can increase their retirement nest egg by playing the market with their savings.
"A very pretty picture was being painted by the online traders, that if you had an Internet hookup you'd have wealth beyond your dreams," said John F. Ferrell, president and chief creative officer at the Alliance agency, Ferrell Calvillo Communications in New York. "But it really isn't that simple."
"Alliance sells funds through brokers, so the message was that going online without the counsel of a broker or financial adviser could lead to problems," he added. "We're saying, 'Don't go it alone.' "
Similarly plain-spoken advice is being offered in ads for an online broker, TD Waterhouse, which have eschewed words like "trader" and "trading" for "investor" and "investing" to cultivate a less short-term perspective.
"Our message has been consistent: use our research, invest in what you know, have long-term goals," said Peter Post, president and chief operating officer at the TD Waterhouse agency, Emmerling Post in New York.
Coming ads "might begin to emphasize tools that are helpful when markets get jumpy," he added, like e-mails sent to customers when stocks reach certain "downside and upside" prices.
The volatile market conditions have not caused a decline in trading volume at TD Waterhouse, Mr. Post said, adding that if volume were to "fall off, there perhaps would be a possible bias to increase spending" to stimulate demand. (Demand for ad space and commercial time remains robust all along Wall Street, according to agency executives, who described how some sought-after pages in national financial newspapers are booked through May.)
Will all the risk avoidance continue in brokerage advertising, especially in light of the rallies the last two days?
"Everyone can be prudent when the markets go down," said Mr. Bond at Kirshenbaum Bond. "The question is, what do you do when the market is going up?"
During the boom, DLJ Direct still ran ads deflating the hyperbole. For example, one poster proclaimed: "Think an investment will make you rich overnight? You might want to sleep on it."
So what's the E*Trade game plan now?
"We haven't jumped at what's going on on the street today," said Rich Silverstein, who shares the posts of chairman and creative director at Goodby, Silverstein, part of the Omnicom Group, with Jeff Goodby.
"We have this great newspaper ad -- 'Breathe in, breathe out' -- if things go a little wacko, but we haven't run it," Mr. Silverstein said, adding that he would call the executives at E*Trade to discuss the possibility of running it, if needed.
"I want to believe what we've always done is a range of work, some out there, some saying 'Take it easy,' " Mr. Silverstein said. "There are probably some messages we shouldn't be running, but we've always said 'Things are good now but what will happen when it turns, and it will turn.' "
As for himself, he added, laughing, "I'm the one who panics and jumps out the window" when the bears rampage. "My wife doesn't."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: As in this poster for DLJ Direct, recent ads by financial institutions are urging investors to calm down. (Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ETFC (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (69%); E TRADE FINANCIAL CORP (58%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (56%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (53%); NEW YORK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ADVERTISING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; MUTUAL FUNDS SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ONLINE TRADING (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BASKETBALL (70%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (67%); TRENDS (67%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



507 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Uses High-Tech Show to Push Plan for Internet Parity

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 18

 BODY:
During a visit to the country's largest computer trade show today, President Clinton wore an ergonomic pillow around his neck, fiddled with a pager that sends and receives electronic mail and examined a Web site that a computer expert told him could retrieve confidential files from the Oval Office while he was on the road.
"Pretty neat, huh?" Mr. Clinton said as he examined a pager made by Motorola that doubled as a minicomputer. He held up the gadget to the reporters trailing him through the exhibition floor and remarked, "Think of how much more damage the press corps could do if you all had one of these." 
 Mr. Clinton will never be mistaken for a computer geek. He does not send e-mail messages. He still speaks in awe of the idea of ordering gifts over the Internet. And not too long ago, he raised his eyebrows in wonder at a product as mundane as a screen saver.
Despite his lack of expertise when it comes to the dot-com world, Mr. Clinton has begun a tour aimed at bringing the digital revolution to the country's computer have-nots. After stops on Monday in a poor neighborhood near Silicon Valley and a Navajo Indian reservation in New Mexico, Mr. Clinton took his message to the thousands of Web designers, product developers, software specialists and others at the Comdex/Spring 2000 computer trade show.
"I came here today to ask you to set another trend -- to devote more time and technology, more ideas and energy, to closing the digital divide," Mr. Clinton said in a speech.
He added, "I honestly believe that the new information economy has the potential, at home and around the world, to lift more people out of poverty more quickly than at any previous period in all of human history -- and that tapping that potential is actually in our enlightened self-interest."
During his tour of the exhibition hall, which had more than 500 booths, the president received a crash course in the next generation of computing. He saw a voice-activated system to access the Internet. He examined the latest wireless technology. He picked up a cellular telephone specially made to accommodate men's larger fingers.
"You've given me hope, with my big, awkward hands," said Mr. Clinton, who passed along to aides the T-shirts, mugs and other free items he amassed.
On the exhibition floor, there were digital fingerprint sensors, personal computerized calorie counters and computer mouses that double as telephones. At the exhibit set up by StoragePoint.com, Mr. Clinton learned about a system that allowed travelers access to information stored in their desktop computers. "If you're on Air Force One and you have an Internet connection, you can get your files," said Lauren Brinner, the company's director of product development.
Mr. Clinton listened to her comments agape, but he shook his head when Ms. Brinner told him that the system would even allow him to store files that only he could open.
"We've had enough problems," Mr. Clinton remarked, referring to the dispute with Congress over thousands of White House e-mail messages that were improperly stored in the administration's database.
Of all the items the president reviewed, the one that he seemed to understand best was the most low-tech.
Karen Kowal, a nurse and massage therapist who founded motherearthpillows.com, placed a warm wrap around Mr. Clinton's shoulders and extolled the virtues of her invention, which increases circulation and oxygenation and diminishes tension and exhaustion in the stressed professional.
"This would be good for me, with my crazy lifestyle," Mr. Clinton said, tucking a purple pillow under his arm after Ms. Kowal had given it to him as a gift.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton urged high-tech leaders in Chicago yesterday to help bridge the "digital divide." He visited the trade exhibits, where Janiece Webb of Motorola demonstrated a pager that is also a minicomputer. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMDEX (COMPUTER TRADE SHOW) TRADE SHOWS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); VOICE RECOGNITION (78%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (65%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (65%); BIOMETRICS (60%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LACEY, MARC BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



508 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Asks Court to Prevent Dumping of Coal Waste Into Streams

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18

 BODY:
The Clinton administration has asked an appeals court to uphold a federal law that prevents coal mining companies from dumping waste in Appalachian streams, legal briefs made available today show.
The Justice Department, acting on behalf of several federal agencies, filed a brief on Monday supporting a federal judge's ruling that West Virginia cannot issue new permits for dumping coal mine waste within 100 feet of streams, unless the waste causes no environmental damage. 
 In its brief, the Justice Department argued that Judge Charles H. Haden II of United States District Court in Charleston, W. Va., ruled properly in October that the buffer zone rule of the surface mining law prohibited the dumping of mountaintop coal waste near streams.
The coal is extracted from mountains by using explosives to blow away the peaks, so giant earth-moving equipment can get to the coal underneath.
While the mountaintop removal method of mining has been around since the late 1960's, it became common in West Virginia in the 1990's as utilities sought to meet the demand for clean-burning, low-sulfur coal to fuel electric-generating plants.
Mountaintop mining has also become popular because coal supplies near the surface have been depleted and large surface mining equipment, some 20 stories tall, has made it possible to remove mountaintops more efficiently and economically.
From 1986 to 1998, the Justice Department said, 900 miles of streams were filled with coal mine waste in Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia, and half of these streams were in West Virginia.
The United States Public Interest Research Group, which represents state environmental and consumers organizations, praised the administration's decision to support the dumping law.
However, the group said it was disappointed that the administration might allow mountaintop waste to be dumped into wetlands.
The Environmental Protection Agency and the Army Corps of Engineers on Monday proposed changes to current rules to authorize wetlands permits for mountaintop removal and other kinds of wastes.
The group said the changes conflicted with provisions of the Clean Water Act that bar dumping waste in streams, rivers and lakes. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN REGION; WEST VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (96%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (96%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; COAL; MINES AND MINING; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL MINES & MINING (94%); COAL MINING (94%); SURFACE MINING (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MINE WASTE REMEDIATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); JUDGES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); WETLANDS (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); WATER POLLUTION (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); LAKES (71%); WATER QUALITY (67%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (62%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (54%); ARMIES (51%); 

PERSON: HADEN, CHARLES H II (JUDGE) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



509 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Bush Unveils a Proposal to Encourage Development in Struggling Neighborhoods

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: TROY, Mich., April 18

 BODY:
Adding to a series of recent proposals that he says are intended to give low-income people a firmer purchase on the American dream, Gov. George W. Bush today unveiled a plan to encourage private developers to build and rehabilitate houses in run-down, struggling neighborhoods.
The incentive would be money: $1.7 billion, over five years, in federal tax credits for developers working in poor and moderate-income areas. 
 Mr. Bush estimated that the program would make work easier on as many as 20,000 houses a year. More important, he said, it would introduce to an increasing number of Americans the experience of home ownership, which he described as a fundamental aspiration that should be more easily attainable.
"Part of the American dream is owning your own home," Mr. Bush said as he stood in front of a newly built house in Battle Creek, Mich., in the western part of this battleground state, with its owner, a 67-year-old black woman named Oberrion Gibson. "Part of the American dream is saying, This place is mine."
In recognition of that, Mr. Bush said, he continually asks -- and tries to answer -- the question, "How do I help people own? Not just those who are entrepreneurs or those at the top of the economic ladder. But how do we help every willing heart, everybody in America, own a piece of this great land? And I've got some ideas."
The details of the one he introduced today, along with the language and symbols with which he promoted it, adhered to a pattern that emerged in the Bush campaign from the moment the Texas governor sewed up the Republican presidential nomination.
For weeks, in a clear bid for moderate, swing voters, Mr. Bush has been tackling issues traditionally dominated by Democrats, pitching programs intended for low-income Americans, framing those initiatives as the actions of a new kind of Republican and italicizing the compassion that he links to his conservatism.
The amount of spending behind these proposals, unusual for a conservative, has many political analysts questioning how he can afford his proposals and his suggested tax cut of $483 billion over five years.
Aides to Mr. Gore said today that the numbers were simply not adding up.
"He keeps making promises he can't pay for, because of his enormous tax giveaway for the rich," said Doug Hattaway, a spokesman for the Gore campaign.
But a former mayor of Indianapolis, Stephen Goldsmith, Mr. Bush's chief domestic policy adviser, said the governor's arithmetic was sound, in part because of projections for federal surpluses, in part because of coming proposals the governor will make for ways the government can save money.
"With the reforms that we have in mind," Mr. Goldsmith said, "all of this will fit into the budget box."
The housing plan that Mr. Bush outlined also brought into sharper focus his views on the role of the federal government.
Mr. Bush does not, for the most part, want the federal government to provide or administer services directly; he wants the tax code and other financial incentives to make it easier for low-income Americans to use the private sector to meet their needs. Last week, for example, Mr. Bush proposed tax credits to help low-income Americans purchase private health insurance.
He also advocated several forms of assistance to help low-income Americans buy their own houses. He said today that while those housing initiatives addressed demand, today's rounded out the picture by addressing supply. Taken together, the initiatives totaled $3.7 billion over five years. The newest proposal would allow developers to apply for as much as 50 percent of the cost of their work on certain houses in tax credits.
The houses in question would have to be for people making no more than 80 percent of the median family income in their area -- nationally, the median is about $51,000 -- and living in neighborhoods where most residents fall into the same income bracket.
The impact of the plan, which Mr. Bush's aides said could contribute to the building or rehabilitation of 100,000 houses over five years, would be limited. There are about 1.3 million new houses built in the United States each year.
But Mr. Goldsmith said the new housing initiative, like the others, was a supplement to an array of existing federal housing programs.
"We're not aiming today to solve the nation's housing problems," he said. "What we've proposed over the last week is a bucket of new tools."
The Gore campaign said the vice president had proposed an additional $5.7 million of federal assistance, over 10 years, to help states build 180,000 apartments or houses, including rentals, for low-income people. Mr. Gore also supports an additional $690 million over 10 years to help 120,000 low-income families with housing vouchers to subsidize their rent.
Mr. Bush's initiatives are specifically aimed at home ownership, which he described as a catalyst for safer streets and better schools.
As the governor spoke, he stood on the front porch of Ms. Gibson's three-bedroom house, built with the aid of a private program that gave her a low-interest mortgage. Five of her relatives and acquaintances, all of them black, flanked the governor.
Mr. Bush has been dribbling out his latest policies, a strategy intended to give him something new to say every few days. And he has been choosing the settings with care.
Michigan, with 18 electoral votes, is one of the most important links in a chain of largely Midwestern states that may be the decisive region for the outcome of the presidential race.
But Mr. Bush lost the state's Republican primary to Senator John McCain of Arizona, an outcome that both Mr. Bush and the Michigan governor, John Engler, who accompanied Mr. Bush from Battle Creek to subsequent campaign stops in the Detroit suburbs of Dearborn and Troy, joked about today.
"Back to the firewall!" Mr. Engler trumpeted as he walked down the aisle of the Bush campaign plane, referring facetiously to the assurances he had given Mr. Bush that Michigan would halt Mr. McCain's momentum coming out of the New Hampshire primary.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George W. Bush visited Oberrion Gibson, right, where Mr. Bush took the suggestion to pray. From left are Darran Allen and Miekeeta Allen. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BATTLE CREEK (MICH); UNITED STATES (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; TAX CREDITS; HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 TAX LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONSERVATISM (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); POLITICS (68%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



510 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasury's Planned Debt Buyback Helps to Lift Bond Prices

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Bond prices were mostly higher yesterday, lifted on one hand by the Treasury's announced intention to buy back debt this week yet restrained on the other by the allure of rising stocks.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 11/32 , to 104 26/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.91 percent from 5.93 percent on Monday. 
 The Treasury Department said yesterday that it would buy back up to $2 billion in national debt tomorrow, the latest in a series of debt repurchases.
Specifically, the Treasury wants to buy back 14 outstanding issues of 30-year securities that will mature between February 2020 and August 2025, with coupon rates ranging from 6.25 percent to 8.75 percent. The spreads in the yield over the current long bond are 34 to 284 basis points.
The government expects to save money through its buyback operations because it will save more in interest payments than its costs to buy the bonds back.
In January, the Treasury said it would like to repurchase up to $30 billion of debt this year. This week will be the third buyback operation since last month. On March 9, the Treasury bought back $1 billion in debt, followed one week later by another $1 billion repurchase. After initially falling because of a report showing fewer housing starts in March, said Donald Fine, chief market analyst for Chase Asset Management, Treasury yields later rose in a "flight-from-quality." The market responded to both the rise in stock prices and the Treasury's announcement of the $2 billion buyback, which disappointed investors who had expected a larger volume of repurchases, he said.
While the Treasury market has been dominated by supply considerations lately, Mr. Fine said, Federal Reserve policy on interest rates and overall rates respond to fundamental economic forces, "and in this regard housing activity is a key leading indicator of future economic performance." Although the sharp drop in March housing starts was greater than expected, Mr. Fine believes it was also, in all likelihood, an overstatement of any softness in housing.
The financial markets anticipate another rate increase at the May 16 Federal Open Market Committee meeting, and recent comments by members of the F.O.M.C., including Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, have done nothing to dispel this view, Mr. Fine said. "Indeed, surging economic growth led by strong consumer spending and a pickup in the rate of inflation virtually guarantee an additional 25 basis point pre-emptive move to a less accommodative monetary policy stance, and while a more aggressive action of 50 basis points cannot be ruled out, it seems less probable in light of the ongoing gyrations in the stock market."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (95%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT (95%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); MONETARY POLICY (85%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INFLATION (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



511 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: In This Washington, No 'Seattle' Is Found, by Police or Protesters

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18

 BODY:
In the end, Washington was not Seattle.
Much of the credit for avoiding the chaos and violence of last fall's demonstrations against the World Trade Organization is being claimed by the capital's Metropolitan Police, and particularly their seemingly ubiquitous chief, Charles H. Ramsey. The police formed an impenetrable perimeter around the buildings housing the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the objects of energetic protests over the last two days. 
 But free to roam the streets outside the police barricades, the vast majority of demonstrators, too, were determined to avoid violence. They marched almost at will through the center of the city, chanting, "More world, less bank," but there were no window-smashing rampages like those by anarchists in Seattle.
As the demonstrations ended, both sides claimed a kind of victory and even a certain grudging mutual respect. The police had enabled the financial meetings to go on, and the city had emerged unscathed.
Protesters from the Mobilization for Social Justice rejoiced that their once obscure objections to international monetary policy were now on the front pages. "It's a win-win for everybody," Chief Ramsey said in an interview today. "The bank was able to meet. The protesters were able to express their views and exercise their First Amendment rights, and we were able to maintain peace.
"We were able to keep ourselves from being the issue," he said of the police. "That's a very thin line to walk."
But there were complaints today from protesters that those arrested had been held handcuffed for hours on buses and, along with many of those in jail, had been denied food and water. There were also complaints that bystanders, tourists, local businessmen and a Washington Post photographer had been swept up in the arrests of 600 people on Saturday night.
Chief Ramsey was everywhere, appearing at the barricades at every intersection leading to the bank, chatting with the protesters on one side of the fences, patting his officers on the shoulders on the other. He even wrestled some of the more determined protesters to the ground.
In one scuffle on Monday morning, someone pulled the four stars from his left epaulet and made off with them, perhaps the most serious assault on authority of the whole affair. Hours later, he was at a barricade clutching a red rose given to him by a protester as lengthy negotiations with a young woman dressed as a tree defused a confrontation. It was agreed that the police would doff their gas masks and open a small gap in their barricade so protesters could be arrested peacefully.
The key to the police strategy was surrounding and closing off a large area around the bank's headquarters. Then they began picking up the world finance ministers and other delegates as early as 5 a.m., shuttling them from their hotels under guard.
This was in sharp contrast to Seattle, where the police did not establish a protected zone. The demonstrators, instead, established control over the routes to the meetings. Then the police tried to move them with gas and billy clubs in violence that quickly spread into street fighting.
Alarmed at televised images from Seattle, the police and other officials here spent months preparing, spending $1 million on gear that made officers resemble Darth Vader, which protesters mocked by blaring a "Star Wars" theme.
"They were organized, they had tactics we hadn't seen," Chief Ramsey said of the protesters. "Our people did a good job of planning and maintaining discipline."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Calm protesters with smiles on their faces, a police chief carrying a rose with his nightstick -- these were the prevailing images in the last few days during protests against world financial leaders meeting in Washington. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; MOBILIZATION FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE BANK (91%); WORLD TRADE CENTRE MOSCOW JOINT STOCK CO (91%); WORLD TRADE SYSTEMS PLC (91%); WORLD TRADE BUN KEE LTD (91%); WORLD TRADE CENTRE IN LONDON LTD (91%); WORLD TRADE & MARKETING LTD (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; MOBILIZATION FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE (WASH); WASHINGTON (DC); SEATTLE (WASH); UNITED STATES (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ARRESTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RIOTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); MONETARY POLICY (52%); 

PERSON: KIFNER, JOHN; RAMSEY, CHARLES H (POLICE CHIEF) CHARLES H RAMSEY (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



512 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1885 words

HEADLINE: An Upstart Upsets The Old Book Cart;
Alibris Stakes Its Claim Online

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL 

 BODY:
For decades, the antiquarian and used book trade has remained the dusty, genteel corner of the book market, attracting fiercely independent booksellers who savor the musty fragrance of brown-spotted rag paper and the eureka moment of spotting a rare first edition dumped in a garage sale heap.
But now the dust motes are flying in the rare and used book market with the flashy emergence of Alibris. The privately held online seller of used books has Wall Street ambitions, Silicon Valley money and a strategy that is roiling one of the last bastions of the book market where small dealers still hold sway. With financial resources totaling more than $60 million in venture capital, Alibris is a mix of Internet start-up and industry upstart, a two-year-old company with a cheeky national advertising campaign aimed at building a mighty brand on the spines of old books. 
 "The business has never had this public persona," said Susan Siegel, who with her husband annually publishes "The Used Book Lover's Guides," a series of seven regional handbooks. "It's just been these little stores that bookaholics and collectors and academics know about. The Internet has changed that, and Alibris is dealing with customers in a more sophisticated marketing way that was never needed before."
But given the battering that Internet companies suffered on the stock market last week, some analysts question whether Alibris's plans to lavish as much as $100 million on advertising will be money well spent.
Forrester Research, an Internet research firm, recently issued a report predicting that increasing competitive pressures would drive many e-commerce companies out of business by next year. They advise companies to redirect resources from expensive "branding campaign" into hard assets, service and speed.
"I've seen their ads, and they're very cute," said Carrie Johnson, a Forrester analyst for online retail commerce. "But so are all these other pure plays that have burned through $50 million in advertising, and we're watching these disappear. Unfortunately, there's not a lot of room for new brands."
Alibris faces other questions as well. Some defiant dealers are refusing to supply books for its Web site, which draws titles from booksellers lower in the literary chain and then inspects and marks them up for sale. Others are searching for alternatives, testing a cooperative Web site of dealers that is nearing its final stage.
And then there are booksellers who are happily working with the high-profile newcomer, arguing that Alibris is trying to do what the great majority could never afford -- expand the rarefied demand for rare and used books into a mass market.
The hostilities that Alibris has provoked among some traditional booksellers mirror the tensions that other industries are facing over issues of consolidation and the loss of personal connections. Alibris has stirred the anxieties of many dealers, in large part because of its corporate trappings and strategies that stand out among the others like a shiny new paperback on a shelf of leather-bound editions.
It is not as if Alibris is simply introducing new technology to the business. In fact, the Internet has already helped increase the number and reach of independent dealers. According to Ms. Siegel's survey, the business has expanded strongly since 1996, gaining 21 percent more dealers to reach 7,095 last year.
"The Internet has enabled many sellers of used books to expand their customer base to the entire world," Ms. Siegel said. Sales over the Web make up from 10 to 50 percent of gross sales for the dealers she has tracked. But the great majority of these dealers are tiny operations. By contrast, Alibris has a growing staff of 100 at its administrative offices in Emeryville, Calif., a warehouse of books in Sparks, Nev., and another distribution warehouse planned for England.
As the trade has evolved the last two years, meanwhile, the titans from the glossier side of the book business are developing a yearning for dogeared dust jackets. Amazon .com bought Bibliofind.com, a database for used book dealers last April. Barnesandnoble.com struck a supply partnership with Alibris earlier this year. And this month, the nation's largest book distributor, the Ingram Book Group, announced its participation in a $30 million round of new financing to support Alibris's marketing campaign.
Its pricey Madison Avenue campaign has appeared in The New Yorker, USA Today and Gourmet, promoting battered copies of books like Lewis Padgett's 50's vintage "Mutant." (April 11, 1977. Freaked you out so bad you had to bury it. Jan. 25, 2000. Unearth on Alibris for son who shares your sci-fi gene.")
And there is more to come to attract new bibliophiles. In the next five years, said Martin Manley, chief executive of the company, Alibris hopes to spend at least $100 million to market its titles.
"Many people have tried to computerize the supply side of the business, said Mr. Manley, a former assistant labor secretary in the Clinton administration. "But nobody has taken on the job of creating demand for this product. Most people believe they can't find books from their childhood, but using e-commerce techniques we can bring those materials to the market and we can educate these consumers."
And even with the recent market rumblings, taking the company public is a strategy that Alibris is still considering, Mr. Manley said. "Changes in the capital market are not going to change the business strategy," he said. "We've always been focused on the retailer and distributor because nobody else is."
Alibris bills itself as the leading source of rare and hard-to-find books, but there are other existing online services for used books with a larger pool of dealers -- at least for the moment. Advanced Book Exchange, or ABE as it is known, which is based in Victoria, British Columbia, offers books from more than 6,000 dealers, compared with about 1,500 that Alibris says have joined its fold.
But Alibris is moving aggressively to expand. Last October, it announced the purchase of Bibliocity, an electronic source of rare and antiquarian books. Meanwhile, Alibris has been eyeing ABE, with its list of almost four million titles and 18 million copies.
Asked if Alibris had made overtures to its competitor, Mr. Manley chose his words carefully: "We've never had substantial discussions with them."
Some independent dealers fear that Alibris is moving to create a monopoly, a fear that was intensified by some recent sharp Internet-style elbowing for space. In early March, Barnesandnoble.com alerted antiquarian dealers that it had struck a new partnership with Alibris to fill its used book orders. That means that Alibris will be listed first when customers request out-of-print books from the bn.com Web site. In the past, those orders had been filled primarily through ABE, which will now be the second choice.
This change provoked dissent among many dealers because they could earn more money offering titles through Advanced Book Exchange, which charges about a $35 monthly fee to list 3,000 books and leaves it to dealers to fill the orders directly and to keep the price of the book. In contrast, Alibris exacts about a 20 percent cut of the dealer's final retail price. It operates by demanding copies for inspection at its Nevada distribution site, and then repackages the title under the Alibris brand at a marked-up price for reshipment to a customer.
What particularly irritates some dealers is that the Alibris process eliminates direct contact with the customer. From her cramped 840-square-foot Red Wheelbarrow Bookstore in Milwaukee, Barbara Lightner refuses to list any of the titles in her book collection specializing in avant-garde political literature. Instead, she hopes to maintain contact with a wide range of customers directly through the Internet, which already accounts for 30 percent of her revenue.
"Barnes & Noble drove a lot of independents out of business and some used book dealers said Alibris could never do that to us because we control the supply chain," said Ms. Lightner, a former literature instructor at Purdue University who started her bookstore about two years ago. "But some of us are concerned that they could control the databases that we use to make our Internet sales, and they would be able to destroy our ability to make as much money on those sales."
Judith Lowry, a second-generation bookseller and co-owner of the seven-decade-old Argosy Book Store on East 59th Street in Manhattan, suspects that Internet sales are having an impact on walk-in traffic. For the first time in 10 years in-store sales are down slightly. But she gives credit to Alibris for its advertising campaign, which she says is having a balancing, positive effect. "As they advertise more, we get more orders," she said. "When we first started, we'd sell five books a week and now it's 15 books this morning for Alibris."
The multiplication of online sales has allowed dealers like Christine Volk, of Volk & Iiams Booksellers, to work from the foothills in rural Northern California on 10 acres in Amador County. Her Internet sales make up her entire business, which specializes in first editions in African-American and children's literature. Working from her outpost with a view of snow-capped Sierras and wild turkeys, she maintains contact with customers through e-mail and a new Web site, Bookfever.com.
Lynn DeWeese-Parkinson, a former trial lawyer, makes about 80 percent of his sales online and the rest by appointment and catalog sales from his home in Cornelius, Oregon. He also shepherds a continuing and lively debate among book dealers through his electronic bulletin board, Bibliophile.
For Ms. Volk and Mr. DeWeese-Parkinson customer contact -- in all forms -- is the difference between being a bookseller or a supplier toiling like a sharecropper. And it is the reason they do not list their books with Alibris.
Mr. Manley of Alibris, said he sympathized with dealers who wanted to maintain close ties with customers. But "a brand is a promise of reliability, quality, returnability," he said, "and you can't build a brand out of 2,000 dealers. You build a brand out of a name."
That notion is like a red flag for Mr. DeWeese-Parkinson whose specialty is Mexican bullfighting literature. "Alibris stands between me and the customer," he said. "I think that as a small specialty dealer the only way I can stay in business is to be buying for those customers."
In many cases those relationships are held together by e-mail since his customers are scattered around the world from Pamplona, Spain, to Providence, R.I. "Finding those people," he said, "is much more important than the hot experience of finding a nifty book in a corner."
And those relationships are at the heart of what makes selling rare books so personal. When his 22-year-old daughter, Meggan Parkinson, died in a car crash in May 1997, his book customers arranged for masses to be said in Guatemala, the United States, Spain and Italy.
Before his daughter's death, Mr. DeWeese-Parkinson had planned to race along with her during the running of the bulls in Pamplona. Instead one of his regular customers, Joe Distler, ran with the bulls, wearing a sash with Meggan's name.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: With $60 million in venture capital and a cheeky national ad campaign, Alibris is trying to put its stamp on the spines of rare and used books. Its strategy has caused anxiety among some small dealers who fear being trampled by a large competitor. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times); Christine Volk and her husband, Shep Iiams, who operate Volk & Iiams Booksellers in rural Northern California, chose not to list books with Alibris. (Steve Yeater for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Old Anew"
America's splintered used book business has gotten a boost from the Internet lately even as newcomer Alibris hopes to build a mighty online brand.
 
RARE AND USED BOOK STORES*
 
'96: 3,774
'99: 4,308
 
up +14%
 
RARE AND USED BOOK DEALERS*
'96: 5,857
'99: 7,095
 
up +21%
 
*Excludes booksellers who sell only used paper-backs and those who sell only at book fairs. (Source: Book Hunter Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ALIBRIS INC FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALIBRIS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOK TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FINANCES; ADVERTISING BOOKSTORES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LITERATURE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); BRANDING (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); AWARENESS MARKETING (73%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); STARTUPS (69%); 

PERSON: CARVAJAL, DOREEN GORDON BROWN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



513 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Blue Chips of the Internet Increase Quarterly Profits

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The engine makers, parts suppliers and plumbers of the Internet have been responsible for the snap back this week in technology stocks. Companies like Cisco Systems, Oracle and Sun Microsystems can be seen as the ballast of the new economy, established concerns with steadily growing profits as opposed to the bubble of fledgling dot-com companies with their uncertain hopes of survival.
Three of the technology blue chips -- Intel, EMC and I.B.M. -- yesterday reported earnings that exceeded Wall Street's expectations. The laggard of the three was the International Business Machines Corporation, whose earnings rose but whose revenues declined 5 percent in the first quarter. Big Blue suffered from the lingering effects of the year-end decline in corporate spending on computers and computer services by companies focusing on the Year 2000 transition. 
 That problem is mostly behind it, according to company executives, who predicted I.B.M. would achieve growth rates of 10 percent or more in the second half of the year. Until then, however, Wall Street analysts regard I.B.M. a bit uncertainly, as a company that has not really delivered the proof that its transition to become a supplier of Internet technology to corporate America has yet paid off in higher growth.
But both EMC and Intel reported strong advances in revenue as well as quarterly profits. They join other leading technology companies -- like Sun Microsystems, which last week reported a surge in sales and earnings growth -- that are benefiting from the increased investment in information technology as corporations in industries from automobiles to banking retool their operations for the Internet.
The first of the three companies to announce its results yesterday, the EMC Corporation, is a leading supplier of the equipment increasingly in demand by companies as they adopt Internet technology.
EMC, based in Hopkinton, Mass., is the market leader in producing large data storage systems for corporations. As companies build Web sites, giving employees, customers and suppliers access to more and more business information, the demand for large, high-speed storage systems has mushroomed. EMC, more than any other company, has benefited from that trend.
EMC said its revenue increased 23 percent in the first quarter to $1.82 billion. Profits for the quarter jumped roughly 50 percent to $332 million, or 30 cents a share -- a penny above the consensus estimate of Wall Street analysts, according to First Call/Thomson Financial.
Michael Ruettgers, the chief executive officer of EMC, pointed to the rising sales to traditional companies. "We saw surges in demand from large companies such as Home Depot, Bertelsmann of Germany and Korea Telecom," he said, "as they built their Internet initiatives."
EMC shares rose sharply after it reported its quarterly figures, rising $5.625 a share to close at $130.
The Intel Corporation, the world's largest producer of microprocessors, also reported strong growth in the first quarter. Revenue increased 13 percent to $8 billion. Its profit, excluding certain expenses related to acquisitions, rose 52 percent to $3.1 billion, or 88 cents a share.
But those results were lifted $600 million, or 17 cents a share, by a one-time reduction in taxes because an examination by the Internal Revenue Service reversed previously accrued tax liabilities. Excluding the one-time tax bonus, Intel's profit was 71 cents a share, or 2 cents above Wall Street expectations. Intel's microchips not only power more than 80 percent of the world's personal computers -- still the primary devices for accessing the Internet -- but also many of the larger computers, known as servers, that deliver Web pages, e-mail and other data from networks to desktop users.
Intel's one real problem seems to be that it cannot keep up with the torrid pace of orders. "Demand was stronger in the quarter, across all product lines, than we had anticipated," said Andy Bryant, Intel's chief financial officer. "If we had had more parts we could have shipped them." I.B.M. reported that its first-quarter profit rose 3 percent to $1.52 billion, or 83 cents a share, easily above Wall Street's estimate of 78 cents a share. But the 5 percent revenue drop to $19.3 billion in the quarter caused some anxiety.
I.B.M. executives said that certain strategic steps, like pulling back from the difficult retail market for PC's, had trimmed total revenue but had also improved profitability. Louis V. Gerstner Jr., the I.B.M. chairman, was optimistic about the company's outlook. He said the investments I.B.M. has made in helping corporate customers make the transition to Internet technology was beginning to "pay off in exciting new growth prospects for us."
"Looking forward," Mr. Gerstner added, "we continue to believe that 2000 will be a good year for IBM."
Still, industry analysts were disappointed that I.B.M.'s revenue from software and computer services -- two businesses earmarked by management as engines of growth -- were flat. The company also stumbled in its data storage business, where it is trying to regain ground lost to EMC. "I.B.M. has to prove that it has the products and the strategy to gain market share again in the information technology industry," said Steven Milunovich, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company.
In after-hours trading, I.B.M. shares fell as low as $112 a share, after closing at $115.125 a share yesterday on the Big Board.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Ruettgers, chief executive of EMC, which posted a 50 percent jump in first-quarter profit. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (93%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (91%); INTC (NASDAQ) (85%); IBMC (BRU) (85%); IBM (NYSE) (85%); IBM (LSE) (85%); EMC (NYSE) (85%); KTCD (LSE) (50%); KT (NYSE) (50%); 030200 (KSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; EMC CORP; INTEL CORP ORACLE CORP (93%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (91%); INTEL CORP (85%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (85%); EMC CORP (85%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (62%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (54%); KT CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; EMC CORP; INTEL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MICROPROCESSORS (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; RUETTGERS, MICHAEL C

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



514 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Stocks RegisterImpressive Gains For Second Consecutive Session

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON and JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
With corporate earnings soaring, investors flooded back into United States stocks yesterday for the second consecutive day, retracing much of the ground lost last week.
Coming on the heels of Monday's gains, the rise put an end to immediate fears that small investors are ready to abandon stocks. Yet many Wall Street professionals remain wary that the market is still overly expensive. Some warned that the current rally may prove as ephemeral as the Nasdaq's bounce two weeks ago. 
 Even so, yesterday's gains were impressive. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 254.41 points, to 3,793.57. That 7.2 percent jump, coming on top of Monday's 6.6 percent rise, was the Nasdaq's second-biggest gain ever -- behind only the 7.3 percent increase on Oct. 21, 1987.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 184.91 points, or 1.8 percent, to end the day at 10,767.42, following a gain of 2.7 percent on Monday.
While both indexes remain well off their highs, the Nasdaq now stands above its close Thursday and has regained almost half of last week's scary 25 percent plunge, while the Dow has taken back more than half its 7 percent loss from last week. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also performed well, rising 40.17 points, or 2.9 percent, to close at 1,441.61.
Adding to investors' cheer, several important companies posted first-quarter earnings well ahead of analysts' expectations. In the technology sector, Intel and America Online, which reported earnings after the market closed, both handily beat estimates by analysts. Old-economy stocks also showed their strength, with drug companies Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson both posting higher-than-expected profits.
Even so, several money managers and Wall Street strategists pointed to signs that the rally may not last. While earnings are growing fast, many technology stocks remain expensive, and the market's unusually high volatility is worrisome, they said.
"I think we're going to pull back from this," said Fred Kobrick, a veteran money manager who invests almost $2 billion. "People are doing this because they're afraid of missing the upside, not because they see undervalued companies."
Indeed, the weekend's warnings that individual investors might be fleeing stocks have proven ludicrously wrong so far. Since Monday afternoon, investors have bought stocks fiercely, especially in the technology sector, sending bellwethers like Cisco Systems and Intel up 15 percent or more. That is nearly a complete reversal of last week, when investors sent the Nasdaq composite index down 25 percent, including nearly 10 percent on Friday alone, on fears that technology stocks were overpriced and higher interest rates would slow earnings growth.
Christine Callies, chief United States market strategist for Credit Suisse First Boston, warned against reading too much into this week's gains. "This is pretty standard stuff for a market that went down 35 percent," she said. "The harder they fall, the faster they bounce."
The more relevant question, Ms. Callies said, is what happens next. She said that the Nasdaq could hit 4,160, a gain of about 10 percent above its current level, but that any rally would probably not hold.
"Most market bottoms require several attempts," she said. Ms. Callies also worries that investors could be underestimating the risk that inflation is accelerating, which would force the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates. Higher rates would slow the economy and lower corporate profits, probably hurting the stock market.
"If core inflation proves to be higher than the market has thought," she said, "then the Fed is going to be in a very, very delicate position for many months."
Richard E. Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason in Baltimore, said the Nasdaq rally was more a product of "defensive buying" than of "full conviction." Professional money managers, he said, are just saying, "I can't afford to miss this."
Mr. Cripps added that he would "be surprised if this is an up leg that carries us back to the old highs." In the weeks ahead, he said, the Nasdaq could even fall below the low it set Friday.
But Jeffrey M. Warantz, equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney, said the details of yesterday's rally offered investors some reason for optimism. The rally was broadly based, unlike Monday's gains, which were confined mostly to the largest stocks. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks was up a sharp 5.8 percent yesterday, compared with a gain of just 1.2 percent on Monday.
Still, Mr. Warantz said he wished stocks would settle down. Investors may be pleased with their gains this week, but unless the market calms, he said, "we could turn around and have another 400-point down day."
A look at the biggest winners this week offers proof of just how quickly investors have turned back to their technology favorites. Four of the 10 best performers in the Nasdaq 100 index, made up the largest companies in the Nasdaq composite, were among the 10 worst performers last week.
The four winners: Applied Micro Circuits, which makes high-bandwidth products, up $2.625 yesterday, to $107.25, and 50 percent in the last two days; Echostar, which operates a satellite television service, up $6.4375 yesterday, to $57.8125, and up 35 percent this week; Network Solutions, which provides Internet domain registration services, up $27.625 yesterday, to $148.625, and 40 percent this week; and Broadvision, a manufacturer of e-commerce software, up $11.125 yesterday, to $38, and up 28 percent this week. Yet all are still below where they were before last week's sell-off.
In the Dow, the pattern is even more striking. Four of the 10 stocks that had the biggest declines last week were among the leaders in the rebound on Monday and yesterday, including General Electric, Hewlett-Packard, Intel and Microsoft. But all four are still below where they traded when the decline began.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Myles Gillespie, second from right, a market specialist on the Big Board. (Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 
Chart: "Reversal of Fortunes"
Many of the companies that were the worst performers in their indexes last week have had dramatic turnarounds this week, often outperforming the companies that led the way last week.
 
Nasdaq 100
 
WORST PERFORMERS LAST WEEK
 
Applied Micro Circuits
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: $107.25
CHANGE LAST WEEK: - 50.7
CHANGE THIS WEEK: + 50.0
 
Broadvision
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 38.00
CHANGE LAST WEEK: - 46.9
CHANGE THIS WEEK: + 27.7
 
CMGI
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 65.875
CHANGE LAST WEEK: - 44.5
CHANGE THIS WEEK: + 26.5
 
I2 Technologies
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 47.125
CHANGE LAST WEEK: - 43.0
CHANGE THIS WEEK: + 24.4
 
Network Solutions
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 148.625
CHANGE LAST WEEK: - 42.7
CHANGE THIS WEEK: + 40.3
 
BEST PERFORMERS LAST WEEK
 
Sigma-Aldrich
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: $30.25
CHANGE LAST WEEK: + 10.7
CHANGE THIS WEEK: -0.8
 
Northwest Airlines
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 23.00
CHANGE LAST WEEK: 0
CHANGE THIS WEEK: +2.8
 
Staples
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 18.563
CHANGE LAST WEEK: 0
CHANGE THIS WEEK: +2.4
 
Adelphia Communications 'A'
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 44.563
CHANGE LAST WEEK: -3.5
CHANGE THIS WEEK: +2.4
 
Costco Wholesale
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 50.938
CHANGE LAST WEEK: -3.7
CHANGE THIS WEEK: +0.1
 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS
 
WORST PERFORMERS LAST WEEK
 
Hewlett-Packard
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: $139.063
CHANGE LAST WEEK: - 19.6
CHANGE THIS WEEK: + 13.1
 
Intel
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 129.00
CHANGE LAST WEEK: - 19.2
CHANGE THIS WEEK: + 16.7
 
Microsoft
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 80.563
CHANGE LAST WEEK: - 16.8
CHANGE THIS WEEK: +8.7
 
I.B.M.
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 115.125
CHANGE LAST WEEK: - 15.5
CHANGE THIS WEEK: +9.6
 
AT&T
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 51.00
CHANGE LAST WEEK: - 11.9
CHANGE THIS WEEK: +2.0
 
BEST PERFORMERS LAST WEEK
 
Honeywell International
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: $ 54.125
CHANGE LAST WEEK: +4.5
CHANGE THIS WEEK: +1.5
 
DuPont
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 56.547
CHANGE LAST WEEK: +1.8
CHANGE THIS WEEK: -5.4
 
Coca-Cola
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 47.00
CHANGE LAST WEEK: +1.2
CHANGE THIS WEEK: +1.5
 
International Paper
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 40.125
CHANGE LAST WEEK: +0.6
CHANGE THIS WEEK: -3.1
 
Johnson & Johnson
YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 73.313
CHANGE LAST WEEK: -0.6
CHANGE THIS WEEK: +11.2
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C12)
 
Table: "Another Day, Another Record"
Yesterday's rise in the Nasdaq composite index was its second best ever, eclipsing its performance on Monday.

 	 	 		 	 	DATE	CLOSE	INCREASE	Oct. 21, 1987	351.86	+ 7.34	Yesterday	3,793.52	+ 7.19	April 17, 2000	3,539.66	+ 6.57	Oct. 30, 1987	323.30	+ 5.29	Oct. 29, 1987	307.05	+ 5.20	Jan. 10, 2000	4,049.67	+ 4.30	June 16, 1999	2,517.83	+ 4.27	April 7, 2000	4,446.45	+ 4.19	Jan. 7, 2000	3,882.62	+ 4.17	Feb. 11, 1999	2,405.55	+ 4.16	
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (65%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); AOL (NYSE) (54%); PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (65%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (65%); INTEL CORP (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); AOL INC (54%); PFIZER INC (53%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



515 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Tangling of Jewish Roots Bars Ethiopians From Israel

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

DATELINE: ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia, April 18

 BODY:
The Jewish center was packed today, the day before Passover: children sang in Hebrew. The ritual bath was filled. Three rows of workers flattened dough for matzos, baked in 30 ovens so smoky that the place seemed on fire.
If the people at the Beta Israel Community are not really Jews -- and the Israeli government says it has doubts -- they certainly work hard at their religious practices. 
 They are among the 26,000 people still in Ethiopia who claim to be Jewish and want to leave for Israel. To them and their many supporters, they are the ones left behind. In Israel, the Ethiopian population has increased to 70,000 people in waves of immigration since the mid-1980's.
"It's something special," Andrew Goldman, an American with a charity that assists the group, said today as he helped prepare the center for Passover, which celebrates the exodus from Egypt. "These people have been crossing the Red Sea in my lifetime."
But the Israeli government has been slow to act on their requests, saying their ties to Judaism are not as certain as those of Ethiopians who clearly maintained their faith and were allowed to emigrate in the past.
Some government officials say they worry that the motives are really economic: Ethiopia is one of the poorest nations, made worse by a severe food shortage in the last several months, and Jews here are among the worst off.
In Israel, pressure has mounted, as the Israeli Supreme Court last month ordered the government to develop a plan to process the Ethiopians' immigration applications. Earlier this month, Natan Sharansky, the Israeli interior minister, visited to see the situation firsthand.
At the end of his trip, he promised that applications would be handled more quickly; some people have been waiting 10 years. And he said he was horrified at the cramped and filthy houses where people are living.
"I can compare them only to the punishment cells in the Soviet Union, in which I spent years," Mr. Sharansky, a former Soviet dissident, told reporters in Addis Ababa.
But he was firm that only those with strong claims, under the law that governs who is considered Jewish, would be approved. "We can't open up for everyone who wants to come," he said.
They are known as Falash Mura, and what complicates their claim to be Jewish is that in many cases, their families converted to Christianity a few generations ago. Descendants say the families did so to avoid an emerging persecution from Ethiopia's large Christian population.
"We were hated," said Mitiku Yalew, chairman of the Addis Ababa Beta Israel Community. "They told us we had the evil eye."
His story is like many others. His grandfather, he said, was a practicing Jew near Gondar in the rugged north who taught Hebrew. Fifty years ago, as Christians in the area harassed the Jews, his father converted.
But Mr. Yalew said the conversion was only "pretend," a situation that often was plain to Christians, too. The family did not go to church. There was little intermarriage. Many Falash Mura still cannot be buried in Christian cemeteries.
At the same time, many people gave up Jewish religious practices because they were afraid of provoking their neighbors. "We didn't have any teachers to teach us about the Torah," said Mr. Yalew, who began observing Judaism five years ago.
Yeshinesh Koye, 19, said her grandfather converted to Christianity, but the family ended up practicing neither religion until recently. She has a cross tattooed on her forehead, common among the Falash Mura as a way of convincing Christians that they were not Jews. Asked why she began to observe Judaism, she answered: "It is my religion. It is inherited from my ancestors."
This ambiguity makes it hard to sort out the claims, Israeli officials say. Mr. Sharansky noted that there are few written records. And officials worry that if they let in these 26,000, many others will claim to be Jews to better their lives in Israel.
It is true that most of them lead terrible lives. With the hope of emigrating in the early 1990's, many left their villages for the cities. Their land was taken over, and now they live as urban refugees of sorts.
Gedamu Kassa, 75, sick and bone-thin, lives in a small room with walls made of cow manure with his wife and four other family members. His son lives in Israel. "Most of our relatives have gone to Israel and we want to join them," he said.
The Falash Mura and their supporters reject the idea that they are economic refugees alone. Many of them have relatives among the 4,000 Falash Mura who have made it to Israel, and who lead religious lives there, supporters say. "If they were just economic refugees there would be no reason for them to do that," said Joseph Feit, a New York tax lawyer on the board of the North American Conference on Ethiopian Jewry, the charity that Mr. Goldman works for. In the United States, the three branches of Judaism support emigration for the Falash Mura, and in Israel too there are many groups backing them.
Israel has accepted thousands of Russians, not all of them Jewish by Jewish law, a fact that the Ethiopians have noticed. "Since we are black there are serious investigations," Mr. Yalew said. "For Russians, they don't do the same thing. That is racism. That's a problem."
As they wait, the Falash Mura busy themselves at the center in Addis Ababa and another in Gondar. Most go there to pray three times a day. Nearly 5,000 children attend school at the centers, singing the Israeli national anthem before class. The center employs 850 people to embroider scenes of Ethiopian Jewish life, which are made into pillows and sold in the United States.
One of the embroiderers is Desalegn Gibte, 55, who stitches embroidery for about $20 a month. "We are doing this just to get paid," he said. "We barely get enough to pay rent."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gedamu Kassa, 75, who lives in one room in Addis Ababa with his wife and four other relatives, says he wants to go live with his son in Israel: "Most of our relatives have gone to Israel and we want to join them." (Radhika Chalasani/Sipa Press, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); ETHIOPIA (96%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (55%); 

CITY: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ETHIOPIA; ISRAEL (99%); ETHIOPIA (96%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%); ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); PASSOVER (90%); RELIGION (90%); FAMILY (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); REFUGEES (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); APPROVALS (66%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN NATAN SHARANSKY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



516 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON with Adam Nagourney and Judith H. Dobrzynski 

 BODY:

A Condolence Call Beats a Fax
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON, the target of more than a little criticism from ASSEMBLYMAN DOV HIKIND in the 10 weeks since she officially began her campaign for the United States Senate, paid a condolence call on Mr. Hikind on Monday. His father, Meyer, 79, died over the weekend. 
 Mrs. Clinton took a basket of fruit and spent 30 minutes at Mr. Hikind's mother's house. As he told it yesterday, Mrs. Clinton kneeled in front of his mother, FRIEDA, and expressed sympathy.
"She was extremely gracious, extremely kind," Mr. Hikind said. "She impressed my mother. I don't think my mother has stopped talking about it."
Mrs. Clinton has been making overtures to Mr. Hikind, a former backer of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, in recent weeks. But the question of Mr. Hikind's stand in the Clinton-Giuliani race did not come up on Monday, Mr. Hikind said.
Mr. Hikind did say that he had his mother roll up a sleeve to show the first lady the number tattooed on her arm from her 11 months in Auschwitz. "I told Hillary that will help explain why I feel so strongly about issues involving Israel," he said.
Mrs. Clinton was one of a line of politicians who paid a call on the Hikinds. Mr. Giuliani was not among them. He faxed a note to Mr. Hikind's office, though Mr. Hikind said that he had not read it.
"It left me empty," he said. "To be honest with you, faxing me a note to my office sort of speaks for itself."
 
From Park to Dots
KAREN H. PUTNAM, the president of the Central Park Conservancy for the last five years, is resigning. On her watch the conservancy's endowment climbed to more than $100 million from $14 million -- "and the park looks fabulous," she said yesterday. Before she leaves on June 30, the final installment of the conservancy's capital campaign, the new North Meadow ball fields, will be completed and dedicated.
She said she planned to work on advising "high net-worth individuals" about philanthropy. She also hopes to help set up a Web site for Internet-economy givers.
If timing is everything, is this the time to move into that world? Hasn't the Nasdaq composite index recently lost a lot of its value? "Yes, but aren't we looking at 40 percent higher than it was last year?" she said. "Long term, I'm very upbeat."
 
Surprise Roast
There were moments on Monday night when the Friars Club's salute to JERRY ORBACH -- a star of the NBC drama "Law and Order" and such theatrical hits as "The Fantasticks" and "42nd Street" -- came close to being a roast of PAUL SORVINO.
The master of ceremonies, FREDDIE ROMAN, said Mr. Orbach should be grateful to Mr. Sorvino, who left "Law and Order" in 1992. "Sorvino could have been on that show for another eight or nine years," Mr. Roman said, "but he wanted to do opera."
A bit later, the executive producer of "Law and Order," ED SHERIN, told the guests, "If Paul Sorvino were still on 'Law and Order,' there would not be a 'Law and Order.' " There was a gasp in the audience as he added, "I was saved from early retirement by Jerry Orbach."
Will O: The Oprah Magazine compete with Martha Stewart Living? "Don't know yet," Ms. Stewart said with a shrug at a party for O. "But there is always room for another good thing."
There was room at the party, at the Metropolitan Pavilion on West 18th Street, for a crowd that included EARTHA KITT, DIANA ROSS, DIANE SAWYER, TINA TURNER, BARBARA WALTERS -- and SEAN (PUFFY) COMBS. He noted that while O is written for women, "Sure I'm going to read it. It's Oprah. Anything that woman does I'm interested in."
ROSIE O'DONNELL, who was a guest at the party, had Ms. Winfrey as a guest on her talk show yesterday. By the time they stopped for a commercial, Ms. O'Donnell had volunteered to do a two-page feature about decoupage for O. "I swear to you -- when is it due?" Ms. O'Donnell asked.
 
Pleading Poverty
Most museum directors are reluctant to point out the gaps in their collections. But there was PHILIPPE DE MONTEBELLO of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, standing at a podium in its candle-lighted Temple of Dendur, announcing that the museum had no works by Donatello, Verrocchio or Caillebotte, and scarcely any archaic jades, a high point of Chinese art.
"I could go on, of course," he said, "but then this would begin to sound like a jeremiad."
There was nothing ulterior about his motive. More than 300 arts patrons had paid more than $1,000 apiece to attend the second annual dinner to benefit the Met's acquisition fund. Before they could enjoy the appetizer (cold baby lobster), they had to listen to his pitch.
MICHEL DAVID-WEILL, SID BASS, MICHAEL BLOOMBERG, DEDA BLAIR and BROOKE ASTOR later waited through pitches from curators before the main course. The dinner raised $750,000, but that will not buy much. A Caillebotte up for auction May 8 at Christie's is estimated at $6 million to $8 million.
 JAMES BARRON with Adam Nagourney and Judith H. Dobrzynski
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: DOV HIKIND

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY; O: THE OPRAH MAGAZINE; METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY; O: THE OPRAH MAGAZINE; METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: ;MAGAZINES; FINANCES US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (88%); FUNDRAISING (77%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); CHARITIES (67%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (63%); PHILANTHROPY (62%); NEW ECONOMY (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; DE MONTEBELLO, PHILIPPE; BARRON, JAMES; NAGOURNEY, ADAM; DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H; HIKIND, MEYER; HIKIND, DOV (ASSEMBLYMAN); PUTNAM, KAREN P; ORBACH, JERRY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); RUDY GIULIANI (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



517 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Board May Sell Schools Chief's Residence

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Just a few weeks after the New York City Board of Education began weighing the sale of its often maligned headquarters at 110 Livingston Street in Brooklyn, another piece of board property -- with almost as intriguing a history -- has been suggested as a candidate for the selling block.
William C. Thompson Jr., the president of the Board of Education, said in an interview yesterday that he believed that the board should sell the stately Brooklyn Heights town house that it bought in 1990 to serve as the schools chancellor's official residence. 
 With the board in the middle of a search for a permanent chancellor and the assumed front-runner, Harold O. Levy, the interim chancellor, comfortably housed in his own apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, the proposal raises interesting questions about whether any out-of-town candidates will receive serious consideration for the job.
Mr. Thompson, who said last week that the board had received about 80 applications for the job, many from outside of New York City, insisted that they would be seriously considered. The proposed sale "means nothing with regard to who the next chancellor might be," he said.
Rather, he said, selling the house is simply good business sense. "With real estate values at the level they are right now, it probably makes more sense to take advantage of that," Mr. Thompson said. "We could keep the money in some form that would generate income and use that to provide whoever the chancellor is with a housing allowance."
His idea is at such a preliminary stage that Mr. Thompson said he has not yet discussed it with the other six members of the board, who would be required to vote on the proposal.
But he could be right about the timing. Marilyn A. Donahue, a Brooklyn real estate agent who brokered the property's sale to the board for $995,000 in April 1990, said the five-bedroom, four-story town house, at 80 State Street, could fetch more than twice what the board paid.
The board agreed to buy a home in 1990 as an inducement to lure Joseph A. Fernandez to New York from Florida, where he ran the school system that includes Miami. Former board officials said the housing arrangement was intended to be similar to those that many universities used for their presidents or chancellors, including several schools in the City University of New York system. Typically, those homes are used for entertaining alumni and potential donors as well as for the school leader's residence.
But for years after the purchase of the federal-style town house, past the end of Mr. Fernandez's tenure in June 1993 and into that of Ramon C. Cortines, who served in the job from September 1993 through October 1995, the brownstone building, which includes a maid's room, a fireplace, terrace, patio and small front and back yards, was a source of considerable controversy.
Shortly after the purchase was completed, the economy slipped into recession, leading to drastic budget cuts throughout the Board of Education. But as the board was tightening the financial reins on school district superintendents and principals, it was also spending $250,000 on renovations for the town house.
Former school officials said the discussion over who was completing and paying for work on the house was so intense that it seemed that the neighbors must have been calling the news media whenever a plumbing truck pulled up in front.
Mr. Fernandez himself received no shortage of grief over the house. In 1993, the Internal Revenue Service began auditing his tax returns to determine if he acted properly in paying no taxes on the benefit of living rent-free in the house.
Rudy Crew, who was the latest occupant of the house and who resigned in December, turned the keys in to the Board of Education in March. Although Mr. Levy has no intention of living there, according to board officials, he has the use of the Brooklyn town house for education-related social functions.
With real estate prices in Brooklyn soaring and a shortage of properties for sale, particularly in Brooklyn Heights, a potential sale could be lucrative. Including the cost of the renovations, the board has invested more than $1.2 million on the house.
Ms. Donahue, the real estate agent, said she believed that the building could sell for well over $2 million. "Any fine brownstone will draw a good price right now," she said, because of low inventory in Brooklyn Heights and nearby neighborhoods. Some town houses in the area have recently sold for as much as $2.7 million, she said.
Nevertheless, Ms. Donahue said, "I would tell them to hold onto it."
"They may need it in a month or two," she said, depending on how the board's chancellor search turns out.
In all likelihood, the board would be able to keep the proceeds of the sale, which it could not in the potential sale of its building at 110 Livingston Street and two other nearby buildings that house the board's staff. At the direction of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, the city, which owns the three buildings, recently took the first step in attracting bids from developers. The town house, however, was bought by a state agency, which turned the title to the property over to the city, which in turn gave it to the Board of Education.
Although the board would be likely to make a handsome profit on the investment if the house sold for double its cost, its compounded annual return would be about 7.5 percent over the little more than 10 years since it was bought. That is somewhat mediocre when compared with other, albeit unlikely, alternatives.
To compare, if the board had invested $1.2 million in the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index 10 years ago, instead of a Brooklyn town house, the investment would now be worth more than $6 million.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: The Chancellor's Residence"
80 State Street, Brooklyn
Built in 1900
4-story federal style brownstone, 5 bedrooms, 4 baths, maid's room, fireplace, terrace and high ceilings
Purchased for $995,000 in April 1990 by the Board of Education
$250,000 in renovations
Estimated selling price: more than $2 million
Annual cost for utilities: $4,700
Occupied by three former chancellors:
 Joseph A. Fernandez '90-'93
 Ramon C. Cortines '93-'95
 Rudy Crew '95-'99
(Source: Board of Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) NEW YORK SYSTEMS EXCHANGE CORP (51%); BOARD OF EDUCATION (65%); NEW YORK CITY BOARD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) BOARD OF EDUCATION (65%); NEW YORK CITY BOARD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS SCHOOL BOARDS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (64%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD WILLIAM C THOMPSON JR (77%); JOSEPH A FERNANDEZ (65%); MARILYN A DONAHUE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



518 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Stock-Trading Cheerleader Now Faces $45 Million Debt

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Among the many evangelists for online investing who have appeared in recent years, few have been as ubiquitous as Baruch Israel Hertz. His New York company, with its constant advertisements on CNBC, promises to make investing a cinch even for novices, providing stock quotes, market information and easy access to electronic trading. "You don't have to be a pro to trade like one," he says on the Web site of his stock-trading system, MyTrack.
But when stocks plunged on Friday, many investors who had borrowed heavily to play the market suddenly faced demands from their lenders that they put up more money to cover their losses. And one of the biggest losers was Mr. Hertz. 
 Mr. Hertz, 50, owes $45 million to four unidentified brokerage firms to cover his losses in trading stocks, according to a news release on Monday by his company, the Track Data Corporation. To meet the brokers' demand for him to put up more money, known as a margin call, he pledged 25 million shares of his own company's stock out of about 45 million shares he owns.
In a remarkable twist, Mr. Hertz has become the most public victim yet of the kind of investing he was promoting.
Even after this week's rebound in stocks, some investors who borrowed from their brokers to buy high-priced shares have not been able to come up with additional cash to cover investments that had fallen in value. This has alarmed Wall Street professionals and others who worry that when stock markets that have only gone up finally turn down, many people will be wiped out.
But even in Friday's carnage, nobody expected that the chief executive of an online trading company would be the one to generate one of the biggest margin calls ever.
In buying on margin, an investor borrows money from a broker to buy stock, paying a relatively modest interest rate and using the stock as collateral. But if the stock declines in value, the customer will be asked to put up more money to make up for the shortfall. This is known as a margin call.
Mr. Hertz declined through a colleague to be interviewed. "This was Mr. Hertz's personal account, his personal trading," said Rafi Reguer, Track Data's marketing director. "It was done with firms other than this one, in securities other than Track Data." Beyond that, Mr. Reguer declined to comment.
Mr. Hertz is one of a new breed on Wall Street, people whose backgrounds are in engineering and computer software rather than finance, who believe that every investor should be able to have Wall Street's trading action brought right into their living rooms through a computer. According to the company, Mr. Hertz earned a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Brooklyn College in 1971 and a master's degree in computer science from New York University two years later.
In addition to Mr. Hertz, everyday investors who are MyTrack customers star in its television ads, appearing on camera to give testimonials to the system. And much of the company's Web site is devoted to rave reviews from customers. The company began offering online trading to customers last June, charging $12.95 a trade and monthly fees of $20 to $95 for access to quotes, news and other market data. About 100,000 investors have registered for the service. For a more sophisticated system called MarkeTrack, customers pay $250 to $600 a month.
News of Mr. Hertz's misfortune has cast a spotlight on the network of companies he runs and is affiliated with. He founded the company that would become Track Data in 1981, merged it with a data provider called Global Market Information Inc. in March 1996 and changed its name to Track Data. The company has 375 employees worldwide.
Mr. Hertz and his company issued news releases unceasingly. In November, for example, the company issued 20 different news releases, announcing developments like its offer of a week of commission-free trading for its customers in celebration of the millennium.
On Nov. 17, Mr. Hertz made waves when Track Data put out a news release announcing that the company had no news to report that day. "Commenting on the lack of news today," the release said, "Barry Hertz, chairman and C.E.O. said, 'I want to apologize to our faithful stockholders who are looking each morning for our latest corporate developments. Rest assured that we do not take this lack of news lightly.' "
Following the lead of many companies who split their stocks to attract new investors, Track Data split its stock 2 for 1 twice last fall. At its peak in January, Track Data had a market value of almost $780 million; Mr. Hertz's 71.7 percent stake was worth about $560 million. The company's shares, which traded at $12.25 just more than two months ago, closed yesterday at $2.03125.
Investors who use MyTrack have most of their trades executed by the Track Securities Corporation, which in turn pays Track Data for the orders.
Track Securities, which is based in Boca Raton, Fla., has had a number of run-ins with regulators in recent months. Last Thursday, the securities regulator in Connecticut found that the firm had been operating in the state without being registered and had employed unregistered agents. It fined Track Securities $25,000. And last August, New Mexico's securities regulator censured the firm and fined it $10,670 for filing a misleading document and for conducting activity in the state without a license. Florida regulators also fined the firm $2,500 in August for not registering a branch office and failing to establish and maintain adequate supervisory procedures.
In all three cases the firm neither admitted nor denied the allegations.
A Track Data's spokesman said Track Securities was owned and run by Jack Spiegelman, a director of Track Data. But according to a filing Track Securities made with regulators, Mr. Hertz appears to be a close affiliate of the brokerage firm. In that filing, Mr. Hertz is listed as president and chief executive of Track Data Securities, owning between half and three-quarters. Track Data Securities, according to this filing, is controlled by Track Securities.
Even after meeting his $45 million margin call, Mr. Hertz remains a man of means. He will be left with roughly 20 million shares of Track Data, worth about $40 million. And as chairman and co-founder of the Innodata Corporation, which allows customers to create and disseminate information online, he owns a 14.7 percent stake, worth $4.6 million at yesterday's closing price of $6.1875.
In addition to his salary of $375,000 at Track Data, Mr. Hertz was paid $75,000 last year for his work at Innodata, based in Hackensack, N.J. The company went public in 1993 in an offering underwritten by A. S. Goldmen, a small brokerage firm that was indicted last July by the Manhattan district attorney on charges that the firm orchestrated a securities fraud that cost investors $100 million in losses. The firm closed most of its operations in 1998.
Even before news of Mr. Hertz's margin call hit Wall Street, Track Data announced that it had retained an investment bank to advise it on strategic options, including a possible sale of the company.
"The company is going to make the decision which is really the best thing for the company," said Jay Gelman, senior vice president of sales at Track Data.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: TRAC (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRACK DATA CORP TRACK DATA CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRACK DATA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MARGIN TRADING SECURITIES TRADING (90%); ONLINE TRADING (90%); BONDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); EXECUTIVES (63%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; HERTZ, BARUCH ISRAEL BARUCH ISRAEL HERTZ (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



519 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Public Spaces Uncluttered By People

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
SEVERAL dozen urban planners from across the country were busy yesterday morning studying public spaces in Manhattan, but they did not linger in the usual crowded spots. They went briskly across Rockefeller Center and up Fifth Avenue past St. Patrick's, stopping only when they reached the building just north of the cathedral, Olympic Tower.
There, a few steps east of Fifth Avenue, they inspected a cavernous public space unknown to most of the public: an indoor arcade extending from 51st to 52nd Street. Jerold S. Kayden, who was leading the tour for members of the American Planning Association, explained that the arcade had been designed to give pedestrians a less congested alternative to Fifth Avenue. 
 "Who would want to walk on Fifth Avenue when you can walk here instead?" he asked, and there was no need to answer. The only other people there were a security guard and a book vendor with no customers. Mr. Kayden, the director of the urban planning program at the Harvard Graduate School of Design, gazed at the sitting area and the three-story waterfall.
"At one time there was a restaurant here, but it failed," he said. "They tried a newsstand once, too, and then a serpentine arrangement of green benches." Now it is under construction again.
"This space has never worked, and I don't believe it ever will work," he said. "But I try to remain an optimist."
Remaining optimistic is an impressive feat when you consider the grimness endured by Mr. Kayden. He has visited every one of the more than 500 spots in New York known oxymoronically as privately owned public spaces. Together with the City Planning Department and the Municipal Arts Society, he is about to publish a book on the dreary plazas and arcades that have appeared since 1961.
That was the year developers were given the option of adding extra stories to their buildings in exchange for providing open space for the public at street level. Planners hoped for plazas and wide sidewalks that would remind people of Florence and Paris, but the results were more often reminiscent of prison yards.
The public-private deals often brought out the worst in both sides, especially until the rules were stiffened in the late 1970's. Neither took responsibility. Public agencies didn't bother demanding public amenities, and the private owners didn't try to make the properties attractive. Some locked the public out; others put spikes on ledges to keep anyone from sitting. "One of the spaces actually has a sign reading, 'No defecating,' " Mr. Kayden said. "When you have to put a sign telling people not to defecate, there's something very wrong with that space."
Mr. Kayden took the tour to what he considered a success story, the airy, glass-walled room next to the Newseum at Madison Avenue and 56th Street, in what was formerly the I.B.M. Building. He pointed to the people sitting and eating at metal tables scattered among bamboo shoots. "If any space could be called New York's living room, this is it," he said.
THAT was the favorite of all the 500 places in his book, but there was another spot on the tour that he liked even more. This one didn't make in the book because it wasn't a public space required by law. It hadn't been given by a developer in return for a bigger building. It was a little plaza on 53rd Street just east of Fifth Avenue, Paley Park, built in honor of the father of the founder of CBS, William S. Paley.
"Here in the densest part of Manhattan you have a wonderful oasis," Mr. Kayden said, pointing out the waterfall, the vine-covered wall, the trees growing out of the cobblestone, the moveable chairs and tables. All of it was provided and maintained voluntarily by the Paley family.
There were no rules like the ones governing all the other sites on the tour. At the Olympic Tower arcade, the owner was legally required to provide, among other things, 3 trees, 11 light fixtures, 13 benches, 50 planters and 52 moveable chairs -- and it didn't work. Here the Paleys could do whatever they wanted, and it worked.
Was there a lesson here for urban planners? Would fewer rules make for better spaces?
"Without rules," Mr. Kayden replied, "you would never have 500 public spaces. Private philanthropy would never have provided so many. The zoning rules have given us a remarkable number of spaces, even if a lot of them are bad. But laws are not sufficient. There's an element reserved for the spiritual contribution of the creator. There's a magic about Paley Park that is unique." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN PLANNING ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); CITY LIFE (73%); BOOKSTORES (68%); BOOK PUBLISHING (68%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN JEROLD S KAYDEN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



520 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: A Clear Choice on China Trade

 BODY:
By permanently awarding China the normal trading status it has enjoyed for two decades, Congress can advance America's economic interests without diluting its support for human rights on the mainland or the defense of democracy on Taiwan. Yet while Senate passage seems assured, the House is wavering as both liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans withhold support. Both groups should reconsider their opposition.
Passing the trade bill, which is scheduled for a vote in May, would lock in the market-opening concessions by China. These include easier access for foreign telecommunications companies and a reduction of state controls over the economy, steps that would expand the sale of American goods in China. Over time, lower trade barriers could loosen constraints on information and political debate. Without the trade deal, American businesses would be at a disadvantage in the China market. 
 Some Democrats, including the House minority leader, Richard Gephardt, argue that granting permanent trade rights to China would sacrifice the leverage now available to Congress through its annual votes on China's trade status. But those votes have become empty rituals, with China's trading rights invariably renewed. Pressure on trade is an inappropriate way to seek human rights reforms in China, since trade restrictions insulate China from progressive outside influences.
Representative Sander Levin, a Michigan Democrat, has proposed steps that would couple permanent trade status with new tools for monitoring and pressing China on human rights and fulfillment of its trade commitments. If warranted, Congress could also consider applying penalties allowed by World Trade Organization rules. This approach would create more effective American pressure on these issues than the annual trade status reviews.
Most House Republicans support the trade bill. But some have held back to protest Chinese belligerence toward Taiwan. China's threatening tone before last month's Taiwanese presidential election was troubling, but Beijing's rhetoric has lately been more restrained. Washington should continue trying to calm the tensions, not inflame them with the sale of sophisticated weapons to Taiwan.
The Clinton administration struck the right balance in its newly announced package of arms sales to Taiwan. This includes a variety of upgraded missiles and radars but rightly omits the four destroyers with advanced Aegis antimissile technology that had been requested by Taiwan.
Opening China's markets advances American, Chinese and Taiwanese interests. Other matters like the preservation of democracy in Taiwan and the expansion of liberty in China are equally important American objectives. They are best pursued by disentangling them from trade issues. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 884 (91%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (96%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; LAW AND LEGISLATION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: SANDER M LEVIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



521 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Theme Song for Commuters Is 'Rush Around the Clock'

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

 BODY:
Here is another leaf in the windy debate over whether people are working longer and harder these days: more people are using the bridges and tunnels to Manhattan every morning, and they are using them at ever earlier hours, the Port Authority announced yesterday.
What's happening, commuters and traffic experts say, is both a function of more people working, and changing work patterns that are blurring the boundaries between work and leisure. 
 So some people are at the Holland Tunnel at 5 a.m. because their jobs demand it. Some are there because child care requirements demand it. Some are going to the gym before starting work at the office.
Data on traffic flow simply provide information, not explanations. But much anecdotal evidence points to just how outdated the idea of a 9-to-5 workday has become.
"You have to stay ahead of the competition," said a chipper Dean Eberling, a securities analyst from Cranford, N.J., flashing a smile that would have outshone the sun had it been up as his sport utility vehicle lumbered out of the Holland Tunnel and into Manhattan at 5:10 a.m. "The early morning period is when a lot of institutional investors are making trades and I have to be available, so I'm in checking data and news reports."
Mary Kay of Clinton, N.J., 55 miles from the city, was in early as usual to put in some time in the gym before going to her Manhattan job. Why so early?
"I can't get to the gym at night, what with the kids and all," she said wearily as she emerged from the tunnel and headed uptown for the only personal time she would have in a long, busy day.
Lining up at the toll plazas with the other commuters were those who begin attending to the business needs of the city every morning while others sleep. There were two Federal Express drivers, Jimmy Lettieri of Piscataway and John Burk of South Belmar. Then came a Wall Street data processing manager, Peter LaFranca of East Brunswick, followed by a deli manager, Teddy Ramsumair of Elizabeth. They were followed by Con Ed's Bob Volpe from Monroe Township, and Roberto Guzman of Newark, whose passengers were his fellow steel workers on the way to a construction job on Long Island.
"It's the economy and they are working us to the bone," said Joe Falconite of Marlboro, who was heading to his pipe-fitting business in Brooklyn at 5:20 a.m. He said increasing numbers of early-rising construction workers were on the road. "There are absolutely more people on the road this early, more construction workers especially," Mr. Falconite said.
Like the half-hour lunch, the shorter vacation and beeper bondage, longer and earlier traffic backups at bridge and tunnel crossings are another indication that Americans are going in earlier and staying later at their jobs.
The traffic at the Holland Tunnel on a recent day was never really bumper to bumper at any point between 5 and 6 a.m., but came in waves of increasing frequency as the minutes ticked away.
According to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, vehicle traffic between 5 and 6 a.m. rose 10 percent at the Holland Tunnel, 11 percent at the George Washington Bridge and 19 percent at the Lincoln in 1999, compared with 1998.
Compared with 1996, by 1999 the traffic has increased by 32 percent at the Holland Tunnel, 42 percent at the George Washington Bridge and 39 percent at the Lincoln Tunnel. According the authority's figures, that is a 38 percent increase in 5 a.m. to 6 a.m. vehicle traffic in a four-year period.
"We started seeing these increases about five years ago," said Steve Napolitano, the general manager of the George Washington Bridge. "Most of it is economy-driven, and the truck traffic is up significantly."
He said that focus groups last winter found that many regular users of the bridge were taking advantage of new flexible programs offered by employers.
"It's not a 9-to-5 world anymore," he said.
Traffic is down slightly or unchanged at all other hours between 6 and 9 a.m. But overall in those hours, traffic increased by 1.6 percent, paced by the larger percentages of earlier commuters. In contrast to the earlier travel times on the roadways, riders on mass transit, like the PATH lines and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's New York subways, are increasing at all hours during the morning rush.
Still, Erin Brownfield, a spokeswoman for the Families and Work Institute in Manhattan, said the increase in earlier traffic was consistent with several other workplace trends. The institute's studies have found that people on average are working 44 hours per week, an average of 6 hours more than they are scheduled or paid to work.
"We are working longer hours and employers have higher expectations," said Ms. Brownfield, pointing to an International Labor Organization study last year that showed that Americans, with 1,966 annual hours of work, had shot past Japan, leading the world in hours worked.
Jerry A. Jacobs, a sociologist at the University of Pennsylvania who studies workplace patterns, said that the increases, while modest, served to underscore that the "locus of work has not fundamentally changed, and coming into the office is the norm."
"We've been waiting for the effects of telecommuting to show up," he said. "But it seems that we are still waiting."
But researchers cautioned that the increase in earlier commuting could mean other things, both exotic and mundane.
Commuting times have been increasing anyway, rising to 23.5 minutes in 1997 from 20.2 minutes in 1977, and the earlier bridge and tunnel crossings might simply mean that higher housing costs in the areas closer to New York City are pushing people farther and farther out, increasing commuting times, Mr. Jacobs said.
Ms. Brownfield noted that a 1998 study found that 68 percent of companies nationally are allowing workers flexible hours. Many working parents concerned about leaving young children and teenagers home alone and unsupervised in the afternoons were taking advantage of the chance to start work earlier so that they could go home earlier, she said.
Jeffrey A. Warsh, executive director of New Jersey Transit, said that he had seen a spreading of rush hour, both earlier and later, in the ridership on the agency's trains and buses that mirrors the bridge and tunnel crossing trends. He speculated that more flexible work hours, a search for scarce parking places at suburban train and bus stops, and the "red hot economy" were all combining to alter the shape of rush hour.
In some cases, he said, demand for services that take people into New York City no later than 8:30 a.m. has dictated earlier trains and buses, simply because adding later ones wouldn't accomplish the goal.
"Some of this just has to do with the capacity of the systems," said James P. Redeker, the acting assistant executive director of planning for the agency. "There just isn't any more capacity later, no more space and no more parking."
Terry Vazquez of Roselle, N.J., whose workday in the billing department of a Manhattan hospital doesn't start until 8:30 a.m., has taken to grabbing a ride with her husband Louis, a postal worker, and crossing into Manhattan well before 6 a.m. just to avoid the crowds on the bus and two subway trains she would otherwise take to work.
"I do my overtime in the morning rather than the evening, although I don't really get paid for it," Mrs. Vazquez said as she and her husband were stopped at a traffic light.
"I know it sounds crazy and I might get an extra half hour's sleep if I didn't do this," she said. "But I just hate the crowds. Plus I get more work done between 6 a.m. and 8:30 than all the rest of the day."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cars, trucks and buses descending into Lincoln Tunnel from New Jersey just before 6 a.m. Early-morning commuting has increased. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Earlier Traffic Jams"
The number of vehicles passing through toll crossings from New Jersey into Manhattan on average at various hours during the morning rush at each of the three Port Authority crossings.
 
Graphs show the times for rush hour from 1996-1999 and the percentage change in these times. (Source: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey)(pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; LABOR; WORKING HOURS BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); CITY LIFE (77%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); CITIES (64%); FACTORY WORKERS (60%); PORT AUTHORITIES (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



522 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Zimbabwe Opposition Leader Warns Against Confrontation

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18

 BODY:
As Zimbabwe rolls toward more violence, the worst thing that could happen, in the estimation of its main opposition leader, is to create a martyr out of its founder and once popular hero, President Robert Mugabe.
Instead, conciliation is the way to undercut Mr. Mugabe's push for confrontation, says the opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, a magnetic trade union leader who has transformed himself into the chairman of the six-month-old Movement for Democratic Change. 
 "As much as I would like to take an aggressive stand, that's what he's looking for," said Mr. Tsvangirai, who is visiting here to dramatize the predicament of what was once southern Africa's best example of economic and social cohesion. "He's looking to be made a martyr. We don't need that."
With more sorrow than anger evident, Mr. Tsvangirai described Mr. Mugabe as a "man I was prepared to die for 20 years ago," but who now, at age 76, is obsessed by money, power and the nation's former colonial master, Britain.
Mr. Tsvangirai, 48, fresh from a visit to London, is making the rounds of official Washington, seeking support for free and fair national elections next month. He appeared to be pushing on an open door. President Clinton's deputy national security adviser, James Steinberg, sat next to him at a Georgetown dinner on Monday night and Mr. Tsvangirai met with the assistant secretary of state for African Affairs, Susan Rice.
Until now, the Clinton administration has supported Mr. Mugabe, seeking to use his position to bring a settlement to the war in Congo, where Mr. Mugabe has sent about 10,000 of his top troops. And it has shown scant interest in the showdown he was building between Zimbabwe's white farmers and state-sponsored black squatters.
But patience with Mr. Mugabe has worn out.
The administration is trying to encourage what one official called a "peaceful de-escalation" of the crisis so that yet another African country does not spin out of control. For neighboring South Africa, Zimbabwe's economic collapse would have serious consequences: Zimbabwe is South Africa's biggest buyer of manufactured goods.
Mr. Tsvangirai's visit was sponsored by the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs here. He impressed those who met him here, the official said, as someone "who did not focus on power but on unity and finding a collective way forward." It is vital that the coming elections include international observers, the official said.
But Mr. Tsvangirai said Mr. Mugabe appeared intent on fomenting chaos so that the country appeared to be ungovernable and he could declare a state of emergency and rule by decree. The Parliament was dissolved on April 12 in preparation for elections, but the absence of a sitting legislature could also be used by Mr. Mugabe as a step toward one-man rule, he said.
By dwelling on the question of race -- and specifically, the domination of the most arable land by 4,500 white farmers -- Mr. Tsvangirai said he believes that Mr. Mugabe has chosen a rallying cry, but a hollow one.
Most Zimbabweans were so mired in despair -- more than 50 percent of the population is unemployed and 2,000 people die of AIDS every week -- that offering a piece of land did not mean very much, he said.
"Poverty, unemployment, debt problems, corruption have a terrible effect on the standard of living of 75 percent of the people," Mr. Tsvangirai said. "When you talk of land in that sea of poverty it's meaningless. What does land do if you haven't got a meal?"
He said that land redistribution needed to proceed, but in a way that would not destabilize the agricultural industry, the backbone of the economy. Land reform, he said, "must be done with equity, empowerment and economic viability."
Mr. Tsvangirai said he is confident that in a free election, his Movement for Democratic Change will overwhelm Mr. Mugabe's Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front, which has dominated politics since it took power in 1980. A recent opinion poll showed that 65 percent of voters wanted a new government.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ZIMBABWE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (76%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE; ZIMBABWE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); LABOR UNIONS (56%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; TSVANGIRAI, MORGAN; MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES) MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); SUSAN RICE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



523 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Sewage Work Lags at Source Of Tap Water

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
A program to modernize 102 sewage plants discharging waste water into New York City's reservoirs is drastically behind schedule, jeopardizing the city's efforts to avoid having to build a $6 billion water filtration plant, according to federal and state officials monitoring the city's plan to cut pollution of its water supply.
The latest criticism of the city's sewage-control program came yesterday in a 40-page report released by James M. Tierney, an assistant state attorney general who in 1998 was designated by Gov. George E. Pataki as the state's "watershed inspector general" and charged with tracking the city's cleanup work. 
 The report concludes that the sewage-plant modernization program is "grossly behind schedule" and has not progressed beyond preliminary planning, making it nearly impossible for the city to fulfill its commitment to complete the work by May 2002.
"Giving them every benefit I could, if this continues at this pace, this program could be two years late," said Mr. Tierney, whose position was created as part of an agreement on a cleanup plan signed in 1997 by the city, state and several dozen communities around the city's reservoirs. "That's two more years that contaminants are flowing into the drinking water."
The delays mean that three years after the city committed to spending more than $75 million to fix the plants, no construction has begun, and more than 10 million gallons a day of inadequately treated waste water continues to mix with water bound for city taps, Mr. Tierney said.
Mary Mears, a spokeswoman for the federal Environmental Protection Agency, said yesterday that the pace of the sewage cleanup was "an important part of our decision as to whether to allow the city to continue to avoid filtering."
Over all, water quality remains high. But as development intensifies in the rural and suburban hills around the city's 19 reservoirs, she and Mr. Tierney said, contamination could worsen without the sewage-plant improvements.
The work on the plants is an important component of a five-year $600 million city plan to stop pollution from tainting its biggest, cleanest reservoirs, which are in the Catskills. That plan was announced with much fanfare by city and state officials in 1997 and succeeded in averting a federal order for the city to filter its water.
The sewage plants, dotted around the reservoirs from Westchester to Delaware Counties, have long been seen by water experts as a source of pollution and parasites like cryptosporidium, which can cause diarrhea and severe complications in people with weakened immune systems.
The report from the attorney general's office echoes concerns raised in a letter sent by the E.P.A. to city water officials last fall.
"We're very concerned that the city is in jeopardy of missing most if not all of its deadlines for the sewage plant upgrades," Ms. Mears said yesterday. Next month, the agency is scheduled to issue a detailed interim report on the city's cleanup, and it will focus significantly on the sewage problem, Ms. Mears said. She said it was unlikely that continuing sewage problems alone would result in an eventual filtration order, but added that progress on this work "is certainly a very key requirement."
New York City is the only large city in the United States that has no filters for its water but also has sewage plants releasing waste water into its reservoirs.
So far, the enormous volume of the system -- more than a billion gallons a day -- has minimized the potential harm from the 10 million gallons a day flowing from the waste plants. But the E.P.A. has tightened rules for drinking water in recent years, leading to pressure on the city to clean up the plants.
Of particular concern are intestinal parasites like cryptosporidium, which are difficult to kill with chlorination alone and which can travel in poorly treated waste water.
Responding to the state report yesterday, Joel A. Miele, the city's commissioner of environmental protection, acknowledged that the program was behind schedule, but said state officials were not helping matters by focusing on criticizing the city instead of prodding upstate communities to cooperate.
A major roadblock for the project, he said, has been that the money and technical help are coming from the city, but the work must be initiated by the dozens of communities that own and use the plants.
"We're effectively dealing with 102 different entities," Mr. Miele said, referring to the plants' owners. "That in itself is mind-boggling."
He said some communities with old plants where repairs were particularly important were continuing to delay work for a variety of reasons, including trying to get more money from the city and exploiting the issue in local politics.
Mr. Miele declined to name specific towns because negotiations are still under way. "Some players are stalling for political reasons or economic advantage, and there are others who really want to get together with us and get this done," he said.
He said Eliot L. Spitzer, the attorney general, should have directed his office's criticism away from the city and toward state agencies that could help put pressure on watershed towns to accelerate the work.
Other city officials went further, implying that Mr. Spitzer, who is a Democrat, and the E.P.A., operating under a Democratic administration, were trying to use the issue to hurt Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican who is running for a United States Senate seat against Hillary Rodham Clinton.
But in defense of his office's report, Mr. Spitzer noted that his subordinate, Mr. Tierney, had been appointed by two Republicans, Mr. Pataki and Dennis C. Vacco, a former attorney general.
Politics of one sort or another has shaped key features of the watershed cleanup. The effort -- including the sewage-plant work -- had its start three years ago, when the city signed agreements with the state, the federal government and communities around its upstate watersheds. Under the agreements, the city pledged to pay for upgrades at the sewage plants, to buy land to expand buffer zones around the reservoirs, and to enact rules limiting development and other activities that could contaminate the drinking water.
From the start, the city plan was seen by all parties involved as a compromise between keeping the water clean and accounting for the needs of the communities near the reservoirs. The result, by all accounts, is that the city is able to exert only limited control over activities in the 2,000 square miles of suburban and rural hills that funnel rainwater toward city taps.
Now, though, the weaknesses in the plan are becoming clearer, according to water quality experts. And the biggest weakness, many of them say, is in the effort to improve the sewage plants.
Yesterday, responding to Mr. Miele's comments, Mr. Tierney said it was still ultimately up to the city to move the project from planning to the pouring of concrete.
He acknowledged that the city's challenge, dealing with dozens of plant owners, was daunting. "I don't envy them this task," he said. "But these plants are the linchpin on a whole array of things. That's why it's really urgent that they get moving."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; SEWERS; RESERVOIRS WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); WATER QUALITY (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



524 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Budget Plan Scales Back Tax Cuts and Restores Spending

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
In a gesture of compromise to the City Council, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani proposed a $36.7 billion city budget yesterday in which he sharply scaled back his earlier proposal for tax cuts and restored spending he had proposed to cut for libraries and other cultural institutions.
The mayor's budget proposal also called for several large new capital projects over the next three years, including $348 million for a new ambulatory care building, a children's center and a police laboratory for analyzing DNA evidence, all at Bellevue Hospital Center, and $96 million for an expansion of Lincoln Center. 
 The revised proposal signaled major concessions to the Council even before final budget negotiations, said Ronnie Lowenstein, chief economist of the city's Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan watchdog group. "This is a very big change from what he was seeking in January," she said. "He is not just saying here are a few small things. He's cutting his tax cuts in half."
Mr. Giuliani yesterday projected a record $2.9 billion budget surplus in the year that ends June 30. In January, he said that he intended to use any surplus to eliminate two widely disdained city taxes -- the commercial rent tax and the 14 percent personal income tax surcharge -- as the cornerstones of his 2001 budget. The total tax cuts would have amounted to $1.8 billion over three years.
But instead, apparently in a bow to budget watchdogs like the comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, who has warned that an economic downturn and pending labor contract negotiations could squeeze city resources next year, he pared his tax cuts nearly in half.
Under yesterday's proposal, the income tax surcharge would be reduced by half, to 7 percent. Mr. Giuliani still proposes ending the commercial rent tax and a flat $2-per-night fee imposed on hotel guests. He said these tax cuts would total $1 billion over three years, about $800,000 less than his original proposal.
Mr. Giuliani has also restored $50 million for libraries, museums and other cultural institutions that he had sought to cut, provoking an outcry from the Council. In other spending, his plan would set aside $64 million for summer school and $108 million for air-conditioning in classrooms. It also includes $60 million in federal funds to expand the police force by 1,230 officers next year, to 41,440.
The mayor used a City Hall budget address yesterday to repeat his call for the widespread use of merit pay to motivate teachers and municipal workers. His budget would set aside a merit pay reserve of $325 million in 2001, which would grow to $800 million in 2003 and remain constant in succeeding years.
Mr. Giuliani's proposed projects at Bellevue were part of a shopping list in a three-year, $26.4 billion capital plan for which financing is far from assured. Indeed, the capital plan would push the city's expenses far above the state-imposed limit on its ability to borrow by next year.
His capital plan would also dedicate $250 million to reconstruction of the Willis Avenue Bridge, which spans the Harlem River between the Manhattan and the Bronx; $189 million to buy compressed natural gas buses for the city's fleet, which serves neighborhoods not covered by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority; and $129 million for a new wing of the Kings County Hospital Center.
City officials hope to overcome the financing hurdle in two ways. First, Mr. Giuliani is lobbying for an amendment to the State Constitution that would lift or eliminate the debt ceiling. City Hall is also trying to persuade state legislators to give it more borrowing power under the Transitional Finance Authority, a three-year-old bonding agency backed by the proceeds from city taxes.
In contrast to prior years, when Mr. Giuliani's budget proposal has been an opening round for hard bargaining and bitter recriminations between the mayor's staff and the Council, several of its members seemed bemused yesterday by the mayor's early concessions.
"We think the mayor has moved in the right direction," said Peter F. Vallone, the Council speaker, at a news conference, "and we are pleased we don't have to get into negotiations over the libraries and cultural institutions."
Still, the Republican mayor's budget is certain to encounter resistance. For example, the Democratic majority, including Mr. Vallone, wants to restructure any across-the-board cut in the personal income tax surcharge to one that would be graduated to provide more tax relief to middle-income people than to the wealthy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani predicted yesterday the city would have a record $2.9 billion budget surplus for the fiscal year ending June 30. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BELLEVUE HOSPITAL (NYC); LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC) LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELLEVUE HOSPITAL (NYC); LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC) LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; CULTURE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; POLICE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; HOSPITALS BUDGETS (96%); CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); FORENSICS (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (65%); MERIT PAY (63%); EVIDENCE (55%); DNA (55%); DNA TESTING (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000



525 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The arrival of open-source software arouses researchers' curiosity on what motivates programmers to work free.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel; This column appears here every Thursday. Virginia Postrel is the editor at large of Reason magazine and the author of "The Future and Its Enemies: The Growing Conflict Over Creativity, Enterprise, and Progress." Four economic analysts -- Ms. Postrel, Jeff Madrick, Alan B. Krueger and J. Bradford DeLong -- rotate as contributors.

 BODY:
WHEN technology stocks took their sharp tumble last week, many companies appeared to lose one of their most important assets -- the ability to lure talented employees with options. To attract and hold the best, you have to offer the chance to strike it rich.
Or do you? What are we to think when the best of the best -- the elite programmers that industry wisdom deems 100 times more productive than the typical competent coder -- donate their precious time to develop software anyone can use without charge? That is the puzzle the open-source movement, most famous for the Linux operating system, presents to economists. 
 Unlike most commercial software, which comes as incomprehensible "ones" and "zeroes," open-source programs always include the source code, written in a programming language like C++. Any programmer can look at the code and change it to fix bugs or add features. Programmers contribute such patches to the user community by sending them to a central authority, recognized as the project leader. That person (or small group) decides which changes are good enough to become part of the recognized version of the software that is available to everyone. For instance, Linus Torvalds, the creator of Linux, screens patches for the core portions of that operating system. There are thousands of open-source projects, of varying popularity and complexity. Aside from Linux, some of the most prominent include the PERL language, Apache server software, the Emacs text editor and the Sendmail e-mail routing program. Companies like Red Hat make money not from the code itself, which customers could get free, but from the products or services bundled with it.
The great advantage of open-source development is that the process taps thousands of independent minds, making it much easier to find and repair software bugs. "Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow," writes Eric S. Raymond, a programmer and movement observer, in "The Cathedral and the Bazaar." (The essay is available at http://www.tuxedo.org/esr/ writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar.html.)
Open-source programming thus emulates the marketplace -- Mr. Raymond's bazaar -- as well as the scientific peer-review process. Improvements emerge incrementally, from an open-ended, decentralized process rather than a central design. The software becomes more useful and reliable over time.
While its development looks like a marketplace, open-source software itself is a classic public good. You can use it without contributing to its maintenance and without paying a cent to all those programmers who created and improved it.
Hence the economic puzzle. As Josh Lerner of the Harvard Business School and Jean Tirole of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ask in a recent paper: "Why should thousands of top-notch programmers contribute freely to the provision of a public good?" (Titled "The Simple Economics of Open Source," the paper is available at http://www.people.hbs.edu/jlerner/.)
Professor Lerner says he is skeptical of the argument that says "this new technology is so fundamentally different that all the old rules are off." Incentives, the economists believe, are bound to matter. But if that is the case, the question has ramifications beyond software, since many public goods depend on tapping the time and talents of volunteers.
Of course, open-source programmers often reap some direct advantages from their improvements. But solving their own problems has spillover benefits for other people, just as fixing up a rundown building for your own business makes the neighborhood nicer for everyone.
And a lot of people work on open-source projects they do not need for their jobs. One reason is that it is fun and interesting, as much recreation as work. That is true of many other public-good endeavors, from planting trees to running charity balls. They are not all selfless drudgery. Where virtue must be entirely its own reward, volunteers will be hard to find.
But fun cannot explain everything. After all, many open-source hackers are already paid to program, and they do not do that for free. Mr. Raymond argues that open-source developers work for status among other programmers. If you do good work, you become a big shot. Your name is forever associated with the code you have contributed, and because the code is open, everyone can see just what you have accomplished.
Hackerdom is a ruthless meritocracy, dedicated to winnowing out bad code and spreading good. A lesson for other voluntary endeavors is that praising people just for showing up will not attract the best talent. To be valuable, reputation and recognition have to signal something significant.
Along these lines, Professors Lerner and Tirole add a pecuniary motive -- one that traditional charities might call "networking." Contributing to open-source projects can enhance a programmer's career prospects. Especially for someone living and working in an out-of-the-way place, open-source work can attract the attention of potential employers or financial backers. The most striking example is Mr. Torvalds, who was a graduate student in Finland when he released Linux and is now a highly paid executive at a Silicon Valley start-up.
Professors Lerner and Tirole's signaling story assumes that the programmer already has a portfolio of skills and that open-source development simply offers a means to display them. But volunteering to work on difficult problems is also a way of honing new skills -- building your human capital, as an economist would put it -- and the open-source community offers feedback that encourages learning. This, too, is a form of career enhancement.
Open-source programmers are an interesting bunch of volunteers because they are among the most sought-after employees in the economy, and because their volunteer work has produced lucrative commercial spinoffs. But software is hardly the first public good provided through private efforts. While it may sound crass to consider them, every voluntary endeavor needs incentives for excellence. The public good often depends on respecting private gains.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linus Torvalds is the creator of the Linux operating system, which he allowed the world to use free. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; LINUX OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (92%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); C++ PROGRAMMING (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (90%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (76%); DOCUMENT & TEXT PROCESSING (75%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (75%); NETWORK SERVERS (75%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (75%); RANKINGS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); 

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA; TORVALDS, LINUS; LERNER, JOSH (PROF); TIROLE, JEAN (PROF); RAYMOND, ERIC S JOSH LERNER (70%); ERIC S RAYMOND (66%); JEAN TIROLE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



526 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: TALKS CONTINUE
Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of Ireland will be in London today for the second round of talks in 48 hours with his British counterpart, Tony Blair. Mr. Blair visited Dublin, too, as part of a continuing effort to resurrect the Protestant-Catholic coalition government suspended in February when the Irish Republican Army failed to make expected disarmament moves. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
BOSNIA: SERB DEFENDANTS FREED
Two Bosnian Serbs facing war crimes charges were released until their trial begins because they have been in custody too long, the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague said. Miroslav Tadic, 62, and Simo Zaric, 51, surrendered in February 1998. Their trial has been delayed because of complaints by a co-defendant. (Reuters) 

GIBRALTAR: EASING CURBS
Britain and Spain ironed out longstanding irritations by agreeing to simplify border crossings, police and court cooperation, and banking between Spain and Gibraltar, but they did not otherwise change Gibraltar's British colony status. Madrid has long demanded that London cede sovereignty over the 2.5-square-mile peninsula. Marlise Simons (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
ARGENTINA: LABOR PROTESTS
The police, using rubber bullets and tear gas, clashed with hundreds of union activists who protested in front of the Congress in Buenos Aires to stop the Senate from passing a labor code that is at the heart of President Fernando de la Rua's economic policy. Thirty people were reported wounded. The measure, which has already cleared the lower house, would weaken national unions' ability to negotiate local contracts. Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
MEXICO: INQUIRY SWITCH
A governing-party lawmaker could decide the fate of Oscar Espinosa, a member of President Ernesto Zedillo's cabinet whom the opposition wants impeached for what prosecutors say was embezzlement of $50 million during his tenure as Mexico City mayor. The opposition congressman who presided over preliminary deliberations was injured when a gunman assaulted him in traffic. In a random drawing, Representative Miguel Quiroz Perez of the governing party was chosen as the substitute chairman of the investigating committee. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
SUDAN: AIR RAIDS LIFTED
Air raids have been suspended against southern rebel positions, apparently to allow international relief flights to the region, the official news agency said. President Omar el-Bashir, who ordered the halt, warned that warplanes would strike back if they were shot at by guerrillas of the Sudan People's Liberation Army, which has been fighting government troops in southern Sudan since 1983. (AP)
 
NIGERIA: U.S. OFFERS HELP
Concerned that ethnic and religious unrest will undermine democratic rule in Nigeria, a special United States envoy has met with President Olusegun Obasanjo to offer American help ending the crisis. Under Secretary of State Thomas R. Pickering, who made the offer, did not specify what form the assistance might take. (Reuters)
 
ASIA
 
INDONESIA: SUHARTO SON QUIZZED
Bambang Trihatmodjo, left, one of the sons of former President Suharto, was questioned for six hours by prosecutors, a day after a five-hour interrogation of one of Mr. Suharto's daughters. Like his children, Mr. Suharto has been undergoing questioning in a case involving corruption at charitable trusts he administered before being forced from office nearly two years ago. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
INDONESIA: MASSACRE TRIAL BEGINS
The government opened a much-anticipated trial of 24 soldiers and a civilian accused of involvement in a massacre last July in the restive province of Aceh. They are charged with killing 57 villagers in Indonesia's campaign to quell a continuing separatist rebellion. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
EAST TIMOR: TIMOR RIGHTS TEAM
Attorney General Marzuki Darusman of Indonesia named a 79-member team to investigate human rights violations in East Timor last year. The investigators will look into a rampage of arson, rape, kidnapping and killing attributed to Indonesian soldiers and their local militias. The attacks followed the territory's vote for independence. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
PHILIPPINES: 2 HOSTAGES BEHEADED
Muslim rebels beheaded 2 of 29 hostages seized at a school last month, the rebels and a government spokesman said, because demands for the release of Islamic militants held in the United States -- apparently including Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, the mastermind of the World Trade Center bombing in New York in 1993 -- have not been met. The rebels have also threatened to kill Americans elsewhere in the Philippines. Press Secretary Ricardo Puno said independent confirmation of the beheadings had been obtained. (Reuters)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
CYPRUS: TURK'S NEW TERM
The Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktash, 76, succeeded to another five-year term as president of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus after the only other contender withdrew from a scheduled runoff. The breakaway state is recognized only by Turkey, which invaded the island in 1974. United Nations-sponsored peace talks between Turkish and Greek Cypriots are to begin in New York on May 23. (AP)
 
MOROCCO: RIGHTING WRONGS
The government has begun compensating people unjustly imprisoned in detention camps under King Hassan II, who died in July. The first victims received $4,800 to $14,500 to cover medical expenses from the aftereffects of imprisonment. The government has made available $3.8 million, and further allocations are expected. (AP)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SUDAN (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GIBRALTAR (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); IRELAND (92%); SPAIN (92%); NIGERIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (77%); 

COMPANY: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GIBRALTAR (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); IRELAND (92%); SPAIN (92%); NIGERIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AFRICA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); WAR CRIMES (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); RELIGION (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); SHOOTINGS (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); MAYORS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (90%); BERTIE AHERN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



527 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Election Spotlights Ailing School System

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: OTUMBA, Mexico

 BODY:
The Alfredo del Mazo elementary school has no running water or phone, and a short circuit knocked out the electric power for most of this year. Rain blows in on the pupils through broken classroom windows when thunderstorms sweep across the cactus outside.
So when Francisco Labastida, the governing party's presidential candidate, promised in a television commercial to install computers and offer English classes in every Mexican elementary school, teachers like Gabriela Garcia were skeptical. 
 "I think they should start by fixing our windows," said Ms. Garcia, who teaches fifth and sixth grade in the dilapidated rural school in Otumba, 50 miles northeast of Mexico City.
For weeks, educators and parents all across Mexico criticized Mr. Labastida's proposals as an election-year gimmick out of touch with the basic needs of most schools. Mr. Labastida finally retreated, acknowledging in a speech that the government could help many more students by patching schoolhouse roofs and improving Spanish instruction rather than introducing computers.
In previous presidential elections, governing party candidates referred to the schools mainly in self-congratulatory speeches extolling the heroic educational achievements of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI, which has ruled Mexico for 71 years. But this year's race has aroused a genuine debate over education, with opposition candidates criticizing the top-heavy bureaucracy and inequities of the public schools.
On average, Mexicans attend classes for eight years, the government says, but Inter-American Development Bank figures show that the poorest 30 percent of students attend for just three. Recognizing that a better educated population is required for economic progress, all three major candidates have pledged to increase school spending. But that may not be an easy solution because President Ernesto Zedillo says that 27 percent of every government peso already goes to education.
Educators in several towns and villages surrounding Mexico City, asked about school financing, contended that little of that money reached their schools. Experts on Mexico's education system said extraordinary sums were frittered away by education bureaucrats.
Mexican schools are controlled not by local boards, as in the United States, but by a federal Education Department, which mandates a national curriculum, and 31 state departments, which keep academic records and send inspectors to oversee teachers. The same system, transferred to New York, would require a principal in Queens, for example, to negotiate even small curriculum changes with federal officials in Washington and to travel to Albany to register students' grades.
The Mexican bureaucracy is dominated by a teachers' union whose bosses are leaders of Mr. Zedillo's governing party, and they frequently press teachers to campaign for official candidates.
In the farm village of Atlatongo, a 90-minute drive north of Mexico City, the Ramon Beteta elementary school is named for a prominent governing party politician. The tidy school, shaded by jacaranda trees, is one of the best in its county, but different from most American schools. It has no cafeteria, gymnasium, science lab or lockers. It is just a line of concrete classrooms.
Its principal, Jesus Rangel Hernandez, said in an interview that he wondered where Mexico's relatively high education expenditures went. The government says it spends $661 on every elementary student. With 900 students, the school should get nearly $600,000 this year, Mr. Rangel reasoned, jotting figures on a paper. The government provides textbooks and pays his 24 teachers a total of about $240,000 annually. That should leave at least $300,000 for maintenance and other supplies, he said.
"But they give us nothing," Mr. Rangel said. Parent contributions pay for the salaries of a secretary and two janitors. From his desk he pulled a stack of letters sent over the years to authorities, requesting money to mend the school's fence, hire a janitor, and buy supplies like chalk and mimeograph ink. "It's always the same response: 'No money in the budget,' " he said.
"You know what I think they do with the money?" he said. "They spend it in the PRI's election campaigns."
Education Department bureaucrats and union leaders tried to strong-arm his teachers last year to campaign for the governing party candidate for state governor, Mr. Rangel said.
"The waste is extraordinary," said Carlos Ornelas, an education professor who is the author of a standard textbook, "The Mexican Education System." Many full-time workers for the union are classified on the payroll as teachers and given government cars. "I'd say 30 to 40 percent of the education budget is just squandered by the bureaucracy," Mr. Ornelas said.
 Miguel Limon Rojas, Mexico's secretary of education, acknowledged in an interview in his office in Mexico City that his efforts to trim bureaucratic waste had fallen short.
 "It's a considerable problem," he said. But it was worse, he said, before a decentralization in 1993 turned control of 115,000 federal schools over to the states. About 85 percent of Mexico's $23.7 billion education budget for the year 2000 goes to pay teachers and bureaucrats, leaving little for anything else, he said. Hundreds of rural schools with only a handful of students absorb disproportionate sums in salaries.
 "Our spending on physical plant and operational costs is insufficient, creating the sensation that the money isn't getting to the schools," Mr. Limon said.
The authorities have been reluctant to permit international scrutiny. After Mexican eighth graders took part with students from 37 other countries in a 1996 math and science test, the government embargoed the results. In another international test a year later, Mexican students scored lower than those from Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Cuba.
"Mexico can't compete when our scholastic level is below the countries we do business with," Vicente Fox, the center-right candidate who is Mr. Labastida's leading opposition rival, said in a recent speech. He has pledged to wring more efficiency from the bureaucracy.
Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, the leftist who is the other major opposition candidate, has lambasted authorities for allowing classrooms to deteriorate.
Experts praised Mr. Labastida's first educational proposal last year, to lengthen the class schedule to a full day. Currently, students receive four hours of daily instruction, a total of 800 hours annually, compared with 1,500 in the United States.
But Mr. Labastida's promise in January of computers and English classes set off more fireworks. Party officials applauded. Teachers grumbled. Journalists ridiculed it as a costly fantasy. This month, when a Labastida aide visited the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington-based research institute, Jeffrey M. Puryear, an education expert, questioned the proposal.
"I said most specialists on Latin American education wouldn't start with computers," Mr. Puryear said. "They'd start with establishing education standards, measuring progress toward meeting them and building ways to make the school system accountable."
In a recent speech before hundreds of party officials and educators, Mr. Labastida reiterated his promise of computers and English instruction, but acknowledged that it would take years to carry out and that many schools had more pressing needs.
"My goal is to raise quality," he said. "There will be places where the first thing is to put a new roof on classrooms, or provide bathrooms. Other places may need more teachers or a library." He also said that strengthening instruction in Spanish, math and Mexican history was more urgent than computers and English.
At the Alfredo del Mazo school, named for another governing party politician, the principal, Pablo Gonzalez, said he welcomed the revision. "Many of our students don't even have pencils," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Schools like the Alfredo del Mazo elementary school in Otumba, Mexico, are badly in need of repair, and so are ill equipped to turn into the computer centers advocated by Francisco Labastida, a presidential candidate. (Photographs by Wesley Bocxe/Newsmakers, for The New York Times)
 
Map of Mexico highlighting Mexico City: Scarce money makes for unsatisfactory conditions at schools in Otumba and Atlatongo, where a pupil's chair doubled as a desk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (66%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (66%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CURRICULA (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (86%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); GRADES & GRADING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); BUDGETS (69%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM; ZEDILLO, ERNESTO (PRES) ANN LIVERMORE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



528 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: New Victories in Parliament Show Strong Hand of Putin

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 19

 BODY:
Last week, President-elect Vladimir V. Putin pushed the long-awaited ratification of a major arms control treaty through a compliant lower house of Parliament. Today, he scored a victory with regional bosses in Parliament's upper chamber, easily winning a vote to get rid of a prosecutor who was the scourge of former President Boris N. Yeltsin's Kremlin.
For good measure, the upper house also approved the nuclear arms reduction agreement known as Start II, which passed the lower house last Friday.
The most vivid display of loyalty from the governors and local leaders in the Federation Council, as the upper house is called, was their 133-to-10 vote to dismiss Yuri I. Skuratov, the general prosecutor whom Mr. Yeltsin tried twice to fire last year after he began to investigate corruption in the Kremlin itself. 
 "Russia now has a real, solid president, and it needs a full-blooded working prosecutor," said Anatoly Lisitsyn, governor of the Yaroslavl region northeast of Moscow.
In its earlier votes on Mr. Skuratov, the upper house voted against the Kremlin, displaying a rare rebellious streak that was a reflection of Mr. Yeltsin's growing political weakness.
Now, three weeks after his election on March 26, Mr. Putin has scored back-to-back parliamentary victories, proof that he has the political strength to command a majority in both houses.
But it is not clear what Mr. Putin plans to do with his mandate. Both the ratification of Start II and the dismissal of Mr. Skuratov are leftovers from the Yeltsin agenda.
The first attempt to dismiss Mr. Skuratov was made in February 1999, shortly after he started working with prosecutors in Switzerland on a corruption and kickback investigation that linked the Kremlin's property management office and Mabetex, a Swiss firm with extensive business in Russia. That investigation was used by Mr. Yeltsin's opponents to challenge his authority in the upper house, which under the Russian Constitution must approve any changes in the office of the general prosecutor, a position similar to that of the United States attorney general.
Backed into a corner, the Kremlin shifted the focus onto Mr. Skuratov himself. A state-run television channel broadcast a videotape showing the prosecutor in bed with two prostitutes. Despite the humiliation and a subsequent investigation into his conduct, Mr. Skuratov continued to battle for his old job, even after he was formally suspended.
Today, Mr. Skuratov lost his fight and acknowledged that the new political situation in Russia "objectively requires my departure." He said the future of his investigations would depend on "the position of the Federation Council and the president of the country, and if the president does nothing, then all these cases will disappear into the sand."
So far, Mr. Putin has done little to reveal his plans for Russia, including how he will carry out the "dictatorship of law" that he called for in his campaign. In the three weeks since his election he has continued to project the image of the resolute, energetic leader, which was enhanced this week with a three-day foreign tour that took him from Belarus to Britain and then on Tuesday to Ukraine.
His first major policy statement is expected soon after his May 7 inauguration, when he will address both houses of Parliament with a state of the nation speech. A more detailed program, now being prepared by a private research organization headed by German O. Gref, is expected to be issued later next month.
In the meantime, Mr. Putin seems to prefer to keep people guessing about his plans and policies, from the redefinition of the relationship between the central government and the regions to the rearrangement of broadcasting licenses among competing media companies.
Mr. Putin, in meetings with foreign business executives, has repeatedly stressed his commitment to the principles of a market economy. His naming last week of Andrei Illarionov, a liberal economist, as his chief economic adviser was seen as support for continued economic reform.
The Russian economy, helped by high oil prices, has performed better than expected a year ago, but Mr. Putin has reportedly called for a tight budget for next year, to be ready in the event of lower energy prices. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INAUGURATIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); CORRUPTION (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BRIBERY (77%); APPROVALS (76%); MISCONDUCT (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (50%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES) VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



529 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Increases in Price of Oil Widen U.S. Trade Deficit

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit widened to a record in February, elevated by surging oil prices and growing demand for imports, government figures showed today.
The deficit in goods and services trade grew to $29.2 billion in February from $27.4 billion during January as imports climbed to a record and exports fell for a second consecutive month, the Commerce Department said. 
 "The U.S. economy is surging at a pace so much faster than the rest of the world that exports just cannot hope to keep up with imports," said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa.
A record amount of higher-priced petroleum products was imported in February. Since then, crude prices have fallen by about 13 percent. While that may keep the trade deficit from widening further, spending by consumers will also keep it from narrowing, analysts said.
"Domestic demand will have to slow sharply and international demand will have to accelerate even more for the trade gap to narrow significantly," said Steve Wood, an economist at Banc of America Securities in San Francisco.
Imports rose 1.5 percent, to a record $113.4 billion during February. The $8.8 billion deficit in petroleum products alone was the largest since the government started tracking those numbers in 1989, the Commerce Department said.
Excluding oil, imports fell 0.6 percent, reflecting reduced shipments of automobiles, televisions, videocassette recorders, clothing and toys. Still, nonoil imports were up 12.4 percent in February from the same month a year ago.
Exports fell for a second straight month, as outbound shipments of civilian aircraft and other capital goods declined.
Aircraft exports fell 37 percent in February after a decline of 4.7 percent a month earlier. February shipments may have been partly restrained by labor disruptions at Boeing, the world's largest aircraft manufacturer. As many as 19,000 engineers and technicians took part in a 40-day strike that ended on March 19.
Even so, exports of business services and goods were 9.5 percent higher than in February 1999.
Although the trade gap will subtract from first-quarter gross domestic product, consumer spending "will keep growth in excess of 6 percent," Mr. Wood said. That would compare with a fourth-quarter growth rate of 7.3 percent. The pace of consumer demand has elevated the concerns of Federal Reserve policy makers, who have raised interest rates five times since June to keep inflation from accelerating.
Oil will most likely play a lesser rose in the trade imbalance in coming months. An agreement in March by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other producers to increase output has since resulted in a decline in oil prices. In New York, crude oil for May delivery rose $1.24, or 4.8 percent, to $27.35 a barrel today, down about 15.6 percent from a March 7 peak of $32.39.
The merchandise trade deficit with Japan widened to $6.7 billion in February from $5.6 billion during January. The shortfall with China narrowed to $5.6 billion in February from $6 billion during January.
The deficit with Canada, the nation's largest trading partner, narrowed to $3.3 billion from $4.1 billion a month earlier. The deficit with the 15-nation European Union narrowed to $3.5 billion from $3.9 billion.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade"
Deficits the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.
 
Graph tracks deficits, imports and exports, since Sept. 1998.
(Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; EUROPEAN UNION BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); BOEING CO (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; EUROPEAN UNION US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; CHINA; EUROPE; CANADA; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (95%); IMPORT TRADE (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); SHIPMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); STRIKES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); AIRCRAFT MFG (69%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: STEVE WOOD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



530 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1926 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: A Mass of NuclearFriction;
Tension and Mistrust at New High for British Complex

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: SELLAFIELD, England

 BODY:
When John Storer took over a new high-profile job at Britain's most dispute-ridden nuclear complex in September, he expected "a fairly steep learning curve." Instead, he said, "World War III started shortly afterward."
Just as the 40-year-old engineer settled into his position overseeing a troubled nuclear fuel reprocessing unit, he was told that workers had falsified documents involving fuel rods even then in transit to Japan. 
 The implications were not lost on Mr. Storer. It was the first shipment of such fuel rods to Japan -- a crucial customer of British Nuclear Fuels, the government-owned company that operates the sprawling Sellafield complex. The discovery, moreover, coincided with efforts by the company to secure government approval for plutonium processing at a gleaming new unit here designed to turn out "mixed oxide" fuel -- a blend of uranium and plutonium. "The timing was a disaster," he said in an interview. "And worse still, it was self-inflicted. We had shot ourselves in the foot."
In fact, things turned out far worse than he had imagined, causing the equivalent of a commercial meltdown at this complex on England's wild northwestern coast, which has been a cauldron of environmental, commercial and social tension ever since the opening of the first unit, a nuclear power station, here in 1956 and a fire a year later that tarnished the company's reputation from the start.
 In an attempt to rebuild its reputation, British Nuclear announced a leadership shake-up on April 18, promised an overhaul of safety procedures and said it had embarked on measures to prevent a recurrence of the falsification of documents. It also said it would streamline Sellafield's management to introduce greater accountability and to unify myriad safety and management practices. Government inspectors said they would watch the company closely to make sure it followed through.
The falsification of documents, by some accounts to cut corners, was only the opening chapter in a chronicle of woes that has hammered the company's standing in much of Europe, Japan and the United States, and it is fighting to hold on to an estimated $9 billion worth of contracts to dismantle and clean up nuclear sites.
Indeed, the crisis has started a debate about just what business the company should be in -- reprocessing spent fuel for use in power plants, or disposing of nuclear waste and cleaning up nuclear sites, a business that some analysts say has huge potential, without the controversies associated with reprocessing. There is no easy answer. If the reprocessing unit is closed, there will be no raw materials to produce mixed oxide fuel, leaving the Sellafield complex with little but its nuclear waste storage operations and an aging nuclear power station. That would cost thousands of jobs.
Although the company and the British government remain formally committed to reprocessing, Hugh Collum, chairman of the company, hinted that change might be inevitable. "We must be in a position to consider the unthinkable," he told a parliamentary panel in London.
Not only that, the debate has spread across Europe to the whole business of selling mixed-oxide fuels, which are more expensive than uranium but which enable plant operators to re-use spent fuel without buying new uranium. Germany, which also says it received shipments from Sellafield with falsified documents, has raised concerns about "irregularities" in reprocessed fuel, known as MOX, from France.
Riding the wave of mistrust, the environmental group Greenpeace said recently that MOX from Belgium, France and Britain "cannot be guaranteed safe to use." And in southern England, a group of dignitaries from the Channel Island of Jersey plan to travel to France to press for the end of reprocessing at a government-owned plant at La Hague on the French coast that is Sellafield's main rival in MOX production. In the United States, reprocessing has been banned since the administration of Jimmy Carter, and British Nuclear's only other competitor is in Belgium. Germany, Switzerland and Sweden have suspended shipments of spent fuel that was to be reprocessed at Sellafield. Japan wants the company to take back the fuel it shipped there.
None of that is surprising considering the catalog of problems at Sellafield. After the falsification debacle, a routine inquiry by government inspectors discovered "systematic management failures." Those conclusions were published in February. In mid-March, the company acknowledged that a saboteur had severed six cables on a robotic arm in a nuclear waste disposal unit. At the end of March, Ireland and Denmark revived a long-running campaign against the company's environmental record on radioactive pollution of the atmosphere and of the Irish Sea, demanding the closing of the six-year-old, $2.88 billion Thorp plant -- the spent-fuel reprocessing part of the Sellafield complex.
Not surprisingly, the British government has postponed a plan to sell off 49 percent of the company, raising further questions about the opaque financial underpinnings of the reprocessing business.
And in this region, caught by history and geography between a long-gone industrial past and an uncertain nuclear future, between the slate-gray wash of the Irish Sea and the soaring majesty of England's Lake District, the fate of Sellafield's 10,000 jobs has become the single greatest topic of debate in pubs and stores and cafes and homes.
"Everybody's business around here is a spin-off from Sellafield," said Elvina Quayle, 53, who sells cut flowers and groceries from a modest store in Egremont, an old market town just north of Sellafield, and whose husband, Alan, has worked at the Sellafield complex for 38 years. "Sellafield has bought luxury for everybody in this area," she said. "If it's forced to close, it'll kill off the region." Indeed, said Irene Banks, 43, who serves tea and sandwiches at the Apple Tree cafe in Egremont, "we are just in denial here, trying to pretend none of this is happening."
After a partial tour of the complex, though, it seemed clear that the troubles stemmed from a blend of high-level, long-range management decisions and low morale among some of the same workers whose livelihood depends not just on the way the complex functions but also on the way customers and critics see its record.
For one thing, critics point out, Sellafield's ultramodern $480 million MOX unit was commissioned and built before the government gave approvals for it to handle uranium or plutonium. John Barbour, a British Nuclear spokesman, said that was because "there's no mechanism" to win the approvals before a plant is built. Yet the company took orders to deliver MOX that it was producing at a far less sophisticated demonstration unit that can turn out eight tons of MOX a year and began operating in 1994. The new plant, reflecting an assessment of likely demand, has a 100-ton annual capacity, but even with an array of computerized controls it has yet to start operating.
A Sellafield spokesman, Nigel Monckton, projected profits of $480 million over the plant's life span. He did not say what the life span was expected to be, but other reports have put it at 20 years. It was in the older, smaller plant, where data are punched manually into computer terminals along the production route, that the falsification took place. Workers called up a spread sheet accompanying an old order, Mr. Storer said, and simply punched in a new batch number.
The incident raised questions about the ties between workers and overseers. "Clearly there was commercial pressure" to meet customers' demands, said John Cane, a union representative. But "that plant was never designed to be a commercial facility," he said, despite the company's insistence that the older plant had been designed with some commercial use in mind.
In this case, the customer, Kansai Electric Power, had demanded an additional check on fuel pellets being produced. Normally, Mr. Storer said, clients were satisfied with three checking procedures. The fourth involved a random manual sampling of the diameters of 5 percent of the pellets -- a crucial measure because the pellets must fit precisely into a fuel cell's long, slender tubes.
The workers who were supposed to undertake those checks, Mr. Cane said, "had difficulty understanding the relevance of that." Senior managers, too, acknowledge design and data security problems at the demonstration unit, where work has been suspended since September. "It was a prototype, but it was designed to produce a certain amount," said Jeremy Rycroft, a British Nuclear executive. "Things weren't designed as ergonomically as at the new plant. It was a small-scale facility. But things should have been right."
Similarly, Mr. Cane said, several suspects in the severing of robotic cables seem to have borne grievances against the company over a new pension and work contract negotiated with the union and the suspension of a worker buyout program. A report by Britain's nuclear installations inspections agency found fault with Sellafield's entire "safety culture."
Nuclear reprocessing, which takes spent fuel from reactors and turns it into reusable uranium and much smaller amounts of plutonium, is a long-range business. When the Thorp plant opened in 1994, it boasted some $19 billion in contracts for the first 10 years of its life. In the deep, iridescent indoor ponds -- lined with stainless steel -- huge, silvery casks of highly radioactive spent fuel glimmer from far below the surface for as much as five years until their radiation levels begin to fall.
Now, Mr. Monckton said, the ponds contain some 2,800 tons of spent fuel -- a backlog that, at the current reprocessing rate, would take three years to clear. But of course, if reprocessing was halted, the raw materials for MOX production -- uranium and plutonium -- would also come to an end. And MOX production was projected to earn $80 million in its first 10 years.
No one at the company pretends that the crisis will be resolved easily, permitting new contracts to be struck, particularly in Japan, a key market that gave the complex a third of its initial reprocessing orders in 1994. "New business is an issue," said Mr. Rycroft, the commercial director of the Thorp reprocessing division. "We won't win new business until we solve the issue of confidence."
Critics insist, however, that the issue is not simply confidence but safety and overall strategy. Many have seized on Sellafield's vulnerability to pursue long-running campaigns against emissions levels from the plant's many nuclear processes, even though the company says the emissions have fallen radically since the mid-1970's. "There is mass hysteria," said Robin Simpson, a local Labor politician who also works at Sellafield. "Everyone is jumping on the anti-Sellafield bandwagon." The reprocessing plant draws particular ire from environmental campaigners because it produces its own highly radioactive waste.
"We don't want Sellafield closed," said Jill Perry, the local representative of Friends of the Earth. "But where we see its future is in cleaning up nuclear waste, and that's where its expertise should be focused." Indeed, she argued that halting the reprocessing business that accounts for roughly half of Sellafield's jobs could help the regional economy. "No responsible employer would open a factory or any other kind of business because of the radioactivity in this area. So stopping reprocessing might actually bring jobs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Thorp plant, above, is where spent fuel is reprocessed at Sellafield, Britain's much criticized nuclear operation. The sprawling complex, below, stands on the shore of the Irish Sea at the foot of hills rising up to England's Lake District. (Photographs by Jonathan Player for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Waste Management"
With the amount of radioactive nuclear waste rising steadily, British Nuclear Fuels is under pressure to abandon its disputed fuel reprocessing business and focus all its attention on disposing of waste and cleaning up nuclear sites.
 
Chart shows cumulative worldwide nuclear waste, since 1970.
(Source: Energy Resources International via Nuclear Energy Institute)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (93%); ENGLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (74%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH NUCLEAR FUELS LTD BRITISH NUCLEAR FUELS PLC (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH NUCLEAR FUELS LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; JAPAN; UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (93%); ENGLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; NUCLEAR WASTES; PLUTONIUM; URANIUM NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WASTE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; STORER, JOHN JOHN STORER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



531 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Unless stocks take another severe dive, overall damage to the economy is likely to be minimal.

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle 

 BODY:
STOCK prices have regained some of their lost ground, but the enormous hit to wealth last week is likely to knock the nation's economy only partly off its stride -- unless the rout on Wall Street resumes in earnest.
From early January through last Friday, sell-offs have destroyed an estimated $2 trillion to $3 trillion in total wealth, including $1.5 trillion in household savings. Most of that was wiped out in last week's steep decline. 
 Spread the household decline over the roughly half the population that owns stocks and the loss averaged more than $12,000 a person. What if that turned out to be long-lasting, and each foray upward in stock prices soon gave way to another slide, as this week's rally began to do yesterday?
"If the market stays just where it was, there will be weeks of news media discussion about what went wrong and a lot of person-to-person conversation," said Robert J. Shiller, a Yale economist whose new book, "Irrational Exuberance," argues that stock markets are driven in large part by emotion and mimicry. "People learn what to do from one another."
But for all the talk, the damage to the overall economy is likely to be minimal -- unless markets take another severe dive, pushing stock gauges well below their lows so far this year. If the market merely fails to rebound, the growth rate of the economy should slow by this summer to about 3.6 percent, compared with last year's growth of 4.6 percent, according to estimates by Macroeconomic Advisers, a St. Louis firm whose computer simulations of the economy's expected behavior are widely followed by government officials and economists.
Under the firm's projections, the unemployment rate could drift gradually upward to 4.5 percent next year from 4.1 percent today.
"Consumers tend to respond fairly quickly to sharp declines in household wealth," said Kenneth J. Matheny, senior economist at Macroeconomic Advisers.
Still, that downshift represents only a comparatively modest deceleration from the 4.2 percent growth Macroeconomic Advisers expected in the absence of a stock market correction. The red-hot American economy was already projected to cool off slightly in response to a series of interest rate increases engineered by the Federal Reserve. There have been five quarter-point rate increases in the federal funds rate since last June, and Macroeconomic Advisers allows for more, pushing the current level beyond 6 percent.
"This assumes that stock prices move sideways for six months," Mr. Matheny said. "If there is another big correction in the next few weeks, then we could seriously entertain the possibility that the Fed won't tighten again, and might even ease."
Whatever the Fed does, the market downturn is likely to arouse much more debate about interest rate policy. With the gross domestic product expanding at more than 4 percent on average in recent years, and much more in recent months, the Fed's rate increases have met with relatively little opposition. To most economists, the demand for goods and services seems to be outstripping supply, threatening inflationary shortages.
But if growth slows to around 3.5 percent, partly in response to weakness on Wall Street, that could bring the nation's increase in economic output within the range that many experts believe is sustainable without risking a serious escalation in prices. In that case, the Fed may not have to lift interest rates very much.
"Let's play with one percentage point of economic growth," said Alan S. Blinder, a Princeton University economist and a former vice chairman of the Fed. "To the extent the stock market takes this purchasing power away, the Fed has less to do."
The big question mark is the extent to which the so-called wealth effect will come into play. While some experts think such estimates are exaggerated, the rule of thumb held that on the way up, consumers spent perhaps 3 to 5 cents more for each dollar of increase in their households' stock portfolios. But some new research suggests that on the way down, the pullback in spending might be greater than 3 to 5 cents -- concentrated in high-end merchandise like luxury cars, jewelry, watches, boats and the like.
While the spending of high-end households is hit the hardest, changes in stock prices appear to "affect spending by households that do not own stock because they affect consumer confidence," James Poterba, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, reports in an article soon to be published in the Journal of Economic Perspectives. "Unfortunately, the only way to learn more about these effects may be by experiencing a downturn in stock market values."
Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, estimates that the stock market wealth effect added about three-quarters of a percentage point to economic growth over the last year. "What stimulated spending will soon evaporate," he said.
Apart from consumption, the downward pressure on economic growth from an enduring stock market correction comes from changes to capital spending, stock options, pension fund contributions and debt. As consumption eases, so does the pressure to expand production through capital investment in new equipment. Less demand means less output, and capital spending may fall about 15 percent short of projections this year in response to the market downturn Mr. Matheny said.
The economy could take another hit if stock options become less popular. The companies that issue these options do not have to carry them as a labor cost until they are cashed in. But in a market that is moving sideways or down, stock options lose their appeal and employees may press for cash raises or bonuses. These do count as a labor cost, cutting into profits that drive expansion plans.
"Companies will take a wait-and-see attitude," said Rhoda Edelman, managing director of Pearl Meyer & Partners Inc., a firm that advises companies on compensation practices. "But there is a potential for higher labor costs."
Similarly, rising stock prices have increased the value of corporate pension funds in recent years, thus reducing or eliminating the need for cash contributions. The market correction, if it holds, means that companies will have to inject additional cash, cutting further into profits.
The biggest unknown is what will happen to heavily indebted families, many of which borrowed against the value of their homes or stock portfolios to pay for consumption or the purchase of more stocks.
"Most of these people must feel vulnerable if the stock market correction holds and therefore the flow of borrowing is likely to be lower," said Wynne Godley, an economist and debt expert at the Jerome Levy Economics Institute. "If the flow is lower, spending will be lower. We don't know the magnitudes yet, but that is the central point."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MACROECONOMIC ADVISERS MACROECONOMIC ADVISERS (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACROECONOMIC ADVISERS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PERSONAL FINANCES ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (64%); MODELING & SIMULATION (50%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



532 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Plan for Hudson River Institute Gains Ground

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
When Gov. George E. Pataki outlined plans in Albany in his State of the State speech in January for a world-class science center along the Hudson River -- a kind of Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution for rivers -- there was applause, but no one ran for the exits to spread the news. Such speeches are generally full of trial balloons.
Now, though, the project appears to be gaining some traction. In an interview yesterday, Mr. Pataki outlined the first hiring of staff, the naming of an advisory board and the formation of a task force to find a site and define a mission for the Rivers Institute -- its working name for now. 
 And anticipating Mr. Pataki's formal announcement of these moves today, elected officials up and down the Hudson Valley rehearsed appeals for why each town or city was the absolutely perfect site.
Given that Mr. Pataki foresees an institution with perhaps 500 employees and an annual budget of $50 million or so, the officials, particularly in downtrodden communities like Newburgh, described it as a crucial shot in the arm.
But several officials echoed Glen D. Jennings, the mayor of Albany, who said that no matter where it ended up, it would benefit the whole region. "Anything that will bring jobs and more development and a focus on the river will be positive not only for the community that's chosen but for everyone on the Hudson," Mr. Jennings said.
But he quickly followed with a list of why Albany was just right.
Mr. Pataki said the economic benefits of creating a large science center in New York State were still secondary to the scientific benefits.
The governor said he was appointing John Cronin, the Hudson's recently retired "riverkeeper," a private pollution watchdog, as the first employee working on the project. Mr. Cronin's part-time job is to convene meetings of scientists, historians and residents to shape goals for research at the center.
The advisory board for the project includes Robert Gagosian, the director of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution; Robert H. Boyle, an environmental advocate and author of books on the Hudson; and a host of river experts. Mr. Pataki said the board and a state task force would have a year to define the institute's agenda and come up with a plan for financing the project.
Despite Mr. Pataki's focus on science, the main reason for excitement about the project among various elected officials from riverside communities remained the prospect of jobs and activity on shores that for decades have been forsaken by everything but weeds and rust.
T. R. Gallo, the mayor of Kingston, one of many Hudson Valley cities still suffering from the contraction of I.B.M., gushed about the merits of Kingston's Rondout Creek, which is already lined with museums, marinas and restaurants, as a perfect backdrop for the project.
Harold J. Porr 3rd, the city manager of Newburgh , said no place had the attributes of his city, with a long shoreline ready to accept research vessels and a broad bay where the river's two ecosystems -- its salty tidal front and its fresh water -- merge. He noted that the city has an 11 percent unemployment rate.
"The injection of a facility like this would be incredible," he said. "In Manhattan, it woul'd be just another nice thing. Do it in Newburgh, and it would transform us." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WOODS HOLE OCEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WOODS HOLE OCEANOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HUDSON RIVER; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); MAYORS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); BUDGETS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); HISTORY (62%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



533 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Albany's Back Rooms

 BODY:
With much fanfare two years ago, New York's state legislators celebrated a new budget process that was supposed to be more open and democratic. But when a $77 billion budget package failed to win agreement this week because of Gov. George Pataki's last-minute insistence on debt reform, any pretense of legislative democracy in Albany evaporated. While budget conference committees debated in public, the real deals were being engineered by three men in a room -- Governor Pataki, the Senate majority leader, Joseph Bruno, and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. This deprived the public, and most legislators, of any chance to understand the implications of all the horse-trading.
Drafts of this year's budget are laden with election-year goodies, some worthy, some not, that could win final approval on May 1 when the full Legislature is expected to return from spring break. The big question is whether the state can afford this array of political confection if the economy sours in future years. 
 The tax proposals, for example, include helpful tax credits for child care and low-wage workers, and a sensible, gradual repeal of a tax on utilities that is passed on to industry and other consumers. However, the burden of paying for this tax cut, as well as more questionable cuts for college tuition and married taxpayers, will fall mostly to future taxpayers.
The state's education package wisely boosts funding to schools around the state and especially in New York City. The increases would expand the availability of college tuition for poor students, reduce class size in public schools and provide pre-kindergarten classes to 4-year-olds statewide. But there is also a new formula for revenue sharing, or unencumbered funds, that tilts heavily in favor of upstate communities. The formula is acceptable this year, when upstate urban areas desperately need money and the New York City budget is laden with Wall Street tax revenues. But if the new formula becomes the standard, it could harm the city in leaner times.
Governor Pataki's plan to make certain that all buses purchased by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority burn clean fuel is a happy advance over New Jersey Transit's agreement to buy a horde of dirty diesel buses. But the M.T.A.'s latest long-term plan relies on a risky bond package. The plan would require a huge increase in debt service for the authority and deserves more public and legislative debate.
This entire budget package suffers from the secret way it was developed. Albany's legislators this week have been roaming the halls asking each other what is really going on. Although Governor Pataki's insistence on debt reform makes some fiscal sense, the discussions about it should be open, not part of a three-person negotiation that excludes the rest of the legislators and the public. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); TUITION FEES (86%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (85%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); BONDS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); POOR POPULATION (72%); SCHOOL BONDS (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN); SILVER, SHELDON (SPEAKER) EDDIE GEORGE (73%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



534 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Reports by I.B.M. and Intel Lead to a Slide in Stocks
Disappointment with first-quarter reports from I.B.M. and Intel helped send stocks lower, ending the two-day surge after last week's sell-off. The dot-com stocks that have fallen so sharply recently were down again.
The Nasdaq composite index fell 87.16 points, or 2.3 percent, to 3,706.41, while the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 92.46 points, or 0.9 percent, to 10,674.96. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was off 14.1 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 1,427.47. Page C12. 

A Misstep, Not a Fall, for Growth
Stock prices have regained some of their lost ground, but the enormous hit to wealth last week is likely to knock the nation's economy only partly off its stride -- unless the rout resumes in earnest. Market Place. C13.
 
Apple Profit Beats Expectations
Apple Computer posted earnings that handily beat analysts' estimates for its second quarter. In contrast to the slowing sales for many PC makers, Apple reported strong demand across its product lines. Apple reported its results after the close of the market. Amid a broad decline on Nasdaq, its shares closed at $121.125, down $5.75. In after-hours trading, they traded as high as $125.5625. C7.
 
Trade Deficit Widens to a Record
The United States trade deficit widened to a record $29.2 billion in February from $27.4 billion during January, elevated by surging oil prices and growing demand for imports, government figures showed. C14.
 
Sales and Profit Rise for Daimler
DaimlerChrysler reported that sales climbed 17 percent in the last three months, but it paid for that increase in the form of lower profit margins on both Chrysler and Mercedes-Benz automobiles. Net income rose 3 percent, to $1.62 billion, helped by German tax reform. The results indicate that Daimler has yet to overcome the unrelenting price competition in the American car market. C4.
 
Cigarette Promoted as Lower-Risk
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco said that it would start promoting one of its brands, Eclipse, as posing a potentially lower risk of cancer and chronic bronchitis than traditional cigarettes, marking the first time that a producer has made such advertising claims. A23.
 
Chief Outlines the Future for Grey
Edward H. Meyer, 73, left, the supreme commander of Grey Advertising in New York, is making the first steps toward outlining the future of the agency. In a reorganization described to Grey employees, Mr. Meyer will become the head of a new holding company, Grey Global Group. Based on the appointments at Grey Worldwide, the new name for the core advertising agency, two executives seemed poised for promotion. One is Steven Blamer, who will become president for New York at Grey Worldwide. The other is Carolyn Carter, who will become president for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at Grey Worldwide. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C10.
 
Chase Manhattan Profit Rises 16%
Chase Manhattan said that its first-quarter profit rose 16 percent, exceeding forecasts, as a surge in trading revenue and fees from advising on mergers, plus gains on investments, lifted results. C11.
 
Airlines Post Quarterly Results
UAL and AMR, the parent companies of the world's two biggest airlines, United and American, posted first-quarter results that beat Wall Street expectations, while a strike threat hurt earnings at US Airways, which posted a bigger-than-expected loss. C13.
 
Earnings Increase 41% at Lucent
Lucent Technologies, the world's leading phone-equipment maker, said that its second-quarter profit rose 41 percent, to 23 cents a share, on higher sales of wireless and fiber-optic gear. The company had warned in January that net income would be 21 to 23 cents a share when analysts were expecting 26 cents. C7.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,674.96 down 92.46
Nasdaq composite -- 3,706.41 down 87.16
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.84% down 0.07
The euro -- $0.9404 down 0.0076
The dollar -- 104.78yen up 0.03
 
Graph tracks the Apple Computer share price since Wed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (92%); INTEL CORP (90%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (62%); NEW YORK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (95%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (87%); HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (85%); COMPANY PROFITS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); TOBACCO MFG (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); COMPUTER MAKERS (68%); CHRONIC DISEASES (60%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (50%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); TAX REFORM (50%); CANCER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



535 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Russian Leader Continues To Win in Parliament
President-elect Vladimir V. Putin, scored a victory with regional bosses in Parliament's upper chamber, winning a vote to oust a prosecutor who was the scourge of the Kremlin under former President Boris N. Yeltsin. The upper house also gave approval to the Start II arms pact. A10
 
DNA and 200-Year-Old Mystery
Scientists said they had got enough DNA from the remains of a disease-riddled boy who died in 1795 to determine he was Louis XVII, son of Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette. A1 

Bomb Kills One in France
A restaurant worker was killed when a bomb exploded beside a McDonald's in a small town in Brittany. The Interior Ministry suggested that it was the work of an obscure Breton separatist movement. A second bomb, in Rennes, was defused. A8
 
Italian Government Falls
Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema resigned, closing down the 57th postwar government. The center-right opposition leader urged President Carlo Azeglio Ciampi to dissolve parliament and call elections. A8
 
'Bargaining Chips' Go Home
Thirteen Lebanese held for years in Israel without charges crossed into Lebanon after the Supreme Court rejected a petition to continue holding them as "bargaining chips" for missing Israeli soldiers. A10
 
Zimbabwe Land Meeting
President Robert Mugabe met with leaders of white farmers and black former guerrilla fighters who led recent raids on white-owned land. A tentative agreement was reached to end the violence over land reform. A5
 
China Warning to U.S.
A leading government adviser in Beijing, Xu Shiquan, warned that Washington's adoption of a proposal to enhance military ties with Taiwan would have a disastrous effect on American relations with China. A10
 
China Trade Relations Opposed
The House Democratic leader, Richard A. Gephardt, said he would oppose permanent normal trade relations with China because doing so would sacrifice American leverage over Beijing's behavior on human rights and religious liberties. A10
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A12-27
 
Court Extends Elian's Stay, And Faults the Government
A three-judge panel of a federal appeals court barred anyone from taking Elian Gonzalez out of the country until it hears the child's case on May 11. It also suggested that his Miami relatives' efforts to have his request for asylum heard in court should not have been ignored by the government. The ruling ensures that questions of who rightfully speaks for the boy and whether he is entitled to apply for asylum will be fully aired. But it did not answer the question of who should have custody of Elian while the legal process plays out. A1
 
The Justice Department was caught by surprise, and officials were uncertain about how to proceed. A27
 
Arguing the Miranda Warning
The Supreme Court heard arguments on an appellate court's ruling that called into question the warnings against self-incrimination that the police have typically given suspects since the court's Miranda v. Arizona decision in 1966. A1
 
Census Return Rate Picks Up
Sixty-five percent of households have returned their census forms, matching the mail-in rate of 10 years ago and enhancing prospects for a successful count, officials said. A21
 
An Apology From McCain
Senator John McCain said he had put political self-interest over principle by not urging removal of a Confederate flag from South Carolina's Capitol during his primary campaign. A22
 
Remembering in Oklahoma City
President Clinton attended the dedication of a memorial to the 168 people killed in the bombing of the federal building on April 19, 1995. A20
 
Vermont Gay Rights Bill
The State Senate gave its final approval to a bill creating marriage-like civil unions for gay couples. The House has passed a similar bill. The governor will sign a final bill. A12
 
Execution in Tennessee
The state carried out is first execution in 40 years, putting Robert Glen Coe, 44, to death by injection for the murder of an 8-year-old boy. A12
 
New Claims for a Cigarette
R. J. Reynolds said it would start promoting its Eclipse brand of cigarette as posing a potentially lower risk of cancer and chronic bronchitis than traditional cigarettes. Eclipse heats rather than burns its tobacco. The announcement drew criticism from antismoking groups. A23
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Tentative Accord Averts Strike by Building Workers
The union that represents workers at 2,900 city apartment buildings reached a tentative agreement with the real estate industry, averting a strike threatened for tomorrow. B1
 
Labor Leader Pleads Guilty
Charles Hughes, the former president of a union representing school cafeteria workers and crossing guards, pleaded guilty to stealing $2 million from his members. B3
 
Poverty in Unlikely Places
A new analysis of census data shows poverty rates rose sharply during the city's recent economic boom among families with two parents, a worker and a household head with more than a high school degree. B1
 
No Desire to Fight Death Penalty
Mohamed Rashed Daoud al-'Owhali, a defendant in the bombing of a United States embassy in Africa in 1998, has ordered his lawyers not to go to Washington next week to try to persuade the Justice Department not to seek the death penalty against him. B3
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH 
 
Doubt About Fiber Claims
Two studies involving thousands of people failed to confirm that eating low-fat, high-fiber foods reduces the risk of colon and rectal cancer. A1
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Third Dispute for Art Gallery
Marlborough, fined in 1975 for defrauding one artist's estate and accused in court last month of cheating another's, is in a legal battle over the estate of Kurt Schwitters, the German Dadaist, who died in 1948. E1
 
OBITUARIES B11
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Athletes' Records Questioned
Academic records of 39 football players and other athletes at the University of Tennessee show a pattern of questionable practices, according to an English professor there. D3
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-25
 
15-Year-Old Hacker Suspect
Canadian officials said they had arrested a Montreal high school student in one of the computer attacks that crippled some of the Internet's biggest sites in February. C1
 
No Consensus on Microsoft
State and federal officials in the antitrust case have not settled on a remedy, and the states disagree among themselves, though none are advocating breaking up the company. C1
 
Blood Pressure Drug Delayed
Bristol-Myers Squibb withdrew its application for government approval of Vanlev, a blood pressure medication, after regulators sought more data on swelling in some patients. C1
 
Employees Seek Coke Boycott
A group of black Coca-Cola employees called for a boycott of Coke products around the world to press the company to resolve a racial-discrimination lawsuit. C1
 
Stock Rally Cools Off
The Nasdaq fell 87.16 points to 3,706.41; the Dow dropped 92.46 points, to 10,674.96; and the S.& P. 500 slipped 14.1 points, to 1,427.47. C12
 
Business Digest C1
 
CIRCUITS G1-12
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-14
 
EDITORIAL A28-A29
 
Editorials: While Elian waits; Albany's back rooms; a bid for compromise in Ulster; Smith & Wesson's word game.
 
Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.
 
Bridge E10
TV Listings E12
Crossword E10
Weather D7
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); LEBANON (92%); FRANCE (90%); TAIWAN (79%); ITALY (79%); 

STATE: BRETAGNE, FRANCE (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UPPER ROOM (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); LEBANON (92%); FRANCE (90%); TAIWAN (79%); ITALY (79%); BRETAGNE, FRANCE (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPEALS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); APPROVALS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); JUDGES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); MIRANDA RULE (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); PETITIONS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (70%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%); APPEALS COURTS (65%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



536 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
TRIZETTO AND IMS HEALTH TO RECONSIDER MERGER

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
Shares of the TriZetto Group and IMS Health Inc. rose sharply yesterday after the companies said they would consider restructuring their highly unpopular merger proposal. The stock-swap merger, originally valued at $8.4 billion but now down to $2.45 billion, failed to win investor support from the start. Analysts said they expected IMS, a health care market researcher based in Westport, Conn., and TriZetto, an Internet health care company based in Newport Beach, Calif., to terminate the merger and strike a strategic alliance instead. Shares of TriZetto rose $5.75 each, to $22.75, in Nasdaq trading. IMS rose 93.75 cents, to $17.1875, on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RX (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (93%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7376 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: IMS HEALTH; TRIZETTO GROUP IMS HEALTH INC (93%); TRIZETTO GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMS HEALTH; TRIZETTO GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MERGERS (91%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); HEALTH CARE (88%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (85%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



537 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Contract Accord Averts Strike by Doormen

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The union that represents workers at 2,900 New York City apartment buildings reached a tentative agreement yesterday with the real estate industry, averting a strike threatened for tomorrow that would have disrupted the daily routines of hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers.
The settlement, coming just before Passover and Good Friday, was greeted with relief by many New Yorkers who live in the buildings where the 26,000 unionized doormen, janitors, concierges and handymen work. 
 Negotiators from the real estate industry and the union announced the settlement after two days of round-the-clock talks in which they had set an unofficial goal of reaching a settlement before the first Passover seder last night so as to minimize disruption for New Yorkers.
"I'm happy we've been able to reach this settlement in time for the city and its residents to enjoy a good holiday season in peace and harmony," said the industry's chief negotiator, James F. Berg, president of the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations.
The current three-year contract is scheduled to expire at 12:01 a.m. tomorrow, and many New Yorkers had feared a replay of the 12-day strike of 1991, which left buildings bereft of doormen and janitors, forcing many residents to sort their own mail and haul their garbage downstairs.
At a news conference at the Sheraton New York, the negotiators declined to disclose details of the wage package for the workers, who earn $597 a week on average, or nearly $15 an hour. But one bargaining committee member said the accord called for a wage increase of about 10 percent over the three-year life of the contract.
The agreement, which the union's members are to vote on next week, also raises retirees' maximum monthly pension to $1,500 a month, from the current maximum of $1,000, the committee member said.
"I think it's a very good agreement," said Ramon Pabon, a concierge at 535 East 86th Street and a member of the union's 50-person bargaining committee. "It's something that's going to work for all our members. The best part is we didn't have to go out on strike."
Michael Fishman, the trustee running the apartment workers' union, Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union, reserved special praise for contract provisions that will provide computer training for doormen and janitors.
Computer training, he said, will not only help the apartment workers do their jobs better, but it may also make it easier for these workers, most of them immigrants, to go to college or move to better jobs. In an unusual provision, money from the employer-sponsored training and education fund will subsidize the workers' purchase of computers.
Negotiators on the union's bargaining committee applauded the agreement and claimed victory, noting that the raises were higher than the rate of inflation and that they kept the union's members well in front of other building workers as the highest paid in the nation.
In addition, the union achieved its goal of obtaining a more generous wage increase than the 9 percent over three years accepted in late 1998 by 29,000 workers in New York City office towers. Those workers belong to the same local but work under a different contract.
For months, union officials had called on management to be more generous in this round of negotiations because the real estate industry was booming. "We think this is a step toward sharing the prosperity," Mr. Fishman said.
Officials in the real estate industry also praised the accord, saying the wage increases were modest and the industry could afford them at a time when rents and condominium prices are soaring. In addition, management negotiators noted, the wage increases are far less than the union had originally demanded, and an accord was reached without the disruptive strikes by janitors in other cities, including Los Angeles, San Diego and Chicago.
"This settlement is a fair agreement for all parties," Mr. Berg said. "I think it will move the city forward."
Mr. Berg asked that details of the agreement not be made public before he presented them to his board of directors at a meeting scheduled for this morning.
Negotiators said they talked until 1 a.m. Wednesday before breaking off into small groups, with the two sides remaining far apart. Mr. Fishman and Mr. Berg said they made considerable progress yesterday afternoon, as the two sides took the rare step of presenting their bottom lines 36 hours before the strike deadline, with an eye toward reaching an early settlement to avoid disrupting the holidays.
Around the city, apartment residents breathed easier, delighted that their elaborate strike contingency plans, including rotations for doorman duty, would not be needed.
Anne Cote Taylor, who had been helping organize residents of her Upper East Side building for the possible strike, said: "I'm pleased for everyone. Our staff doesn't lose pay, and life in the building goes back to normal."
In its original demands, the union had called for raises of 10 percent a year for three years, a figure that even union officials said they never expected to come close to.
Even though the union members have the highest wages of any building workers in the country, the union had argued that they deserved a large wage increase, partly to serve as a model for other janitors around the country.
Over the last week, management's negotiators had urged the union to accept a raise of 3 percent a year for 3 years, the same one accepted by the office building workers.
The peaceful settlement of the dispute is in sharp contrast to negotiations in other cities. In Los Angeles, 8,500 building service workers have been on strike for 17 days, asserting that their base wages are far too low to live on. About 5,500 janitors at Chicago office buildings walked out for 10 hours on Monday before reaching a settlement.
Among the other major issues of contention in New York were management's demand for more flexibility to lay off workers and the union's demand for contractual language that would make it easier to unionize janitors in the suburbs.
Mr. Fishman said the union had not achieved that goal, and management officials declined to discuss whether they had gained more flexibility in layoffs.
Todd Jenning, a handyman at the Schomburg, an apartment building at 110th Street and Fifth Avenue, said the best thing about the agreement was the increased pension, which was one of the union's major goals.
Mr. Jenning, a member of the union's bargaining committee, said, "We were prepared for a strike, but it's good to have an agreement."
Mr. Fishman, who took the union's helm in September, had repeatedly threatened to strike, saying his goal was to reinvigorate Local 32B-32J, which had lost members and esprit de corps in the two decades that it was led by Gus Bevona.
The Service Employees International Union forced Mr. Bevona into retirement last year because it was angry over what it called his dictatorial ways, huge salary and sumptuous penthouse at union headquarters.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Negotiators announcing the deal between the real estate industry and the union. From left were Kevin Doyle and Michael Fishman, for the union, and James F. Berg and Kenneth Patton, for the industry. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B10); Tom Giordano, a union supervisor, poured champagne to celebrate the agreement. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES; LABOR; STRIKES REAL ESTATE (91%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); EASTER SEASON (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); PASSOVER (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (62%); IMMIGRATION (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



538 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Adviser Warns Closer U.S.-Taiwan Military Ties Will Anger Beijing

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 19

 BODY:
Adoption by Washington of a proposal to enhance military ties with Taiwan would have a "disastrous" effect on American relations with China, a leading government adviser warned here today.
"This would be an openly hostile act by the United States toward China," the adviser, Xu Shiquan, said of the proposed law in an interview. "Sino-American relations would plunge again to the bottom and American interests would be seriously damaged." Mr. Xu is president of the Institute of Taiwan Studies of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, the leading government-run research group on Taiwan affairs. 
 The proposed law, the Taiwan Security Enhancement Act, would mandate closer cooperation between the American and Taiwanese militaries. The United States has not had a formal alliance with Taiwan since it switched diplomatic recognition to the mainland in 1979, but under the Taiwan Relations Act of the same year it has pledged to provide Taiwan with the means to defend itself against attack.
The bill, which President Clinton says is unneeded and overly provocative, passed the House of Representatives by a huge margin on Feb. 1. Its prospects in the Senate are unclear, but this week, after the Clinton administration said it would not sell Taiwan some of the advanced weapons it had requested, some Republican senators vowed to press harder for the legislation.
In a wide-ranging interview, Mr. Xu described Beijing's response to last month's presidential elections in Taiwan as "cool and restrained," but held out little hope of an easing of tensions unless Taiwan's president-elect, Chen Shui-bian, made a basic change in policy and embraced the principle of "One China" under Beijing's ultimate authority.
Mr. Chen was long an advocate of formal independence for Taiwan, which Beijing, considering the island a province separated by the civil war of the 1940's, has said would be grounds for military intervention. More recently, however, Mr. Chen has moderated this position, saying that a declaration of independence is unnecessary because Taiwan already enjoys de facto sovereignty.
Since his election on March 18, Mr. Chen has worked to avoid angering Beijing, saying he seeks peace and offering to negotiate an end to restrictions on commerce across the Taiwan Strait. He selected as his prime minister the departing defense minister, from the Nationalist Party, who opposes independence.
But Mr. Xu dismissed Mr. Chen's verbal olive branches and expressed pessimism about the chances of negotiations between Beijing and Taipei in the next year or two.
"I don't think he is any closer to the one-China principle," he said of Mr. Chen. "He still insists that Taiwan is an independent and sovereign state and that one China is not a principle, but an issue to talk about."
Beijing has given some breathing space to Mr. Chen, who takes office on May 20, by promising to "listen to what he says and watch what he does." But it has repeatedly stated that it will talk with his government only if he agrees that Taiwan is an inalienable part of China.
But Mr. Xu also predicted that Mr. Chen would find it difficult to make that leap, especially given his weak political position. And he offered no hope that Beijing, from its side, wouldseek compromise language.
Beijing is anxious to see Taipei lift its restrictions on direct commerce and communications with the mainland, for example, but will not take up Mr. Chen's offer to discuss even this practical matter, Mr. Xu said, without agreement on first principles.
"If it's a question of opening internal links within one country, then we welcome it," he said. "If it's 'state-to-state' links, then that's a provocation and we cannot accept it."
Under Beijing's proposal, if Taiwan will accept that it is part of China, then it can have enormous autonomy, retaining its own political and economic system, and even military. But any moves to formalize independence would be regarded as a provocation to war.
Mr. Xu said that Beijing's current campaign to vilify the woman elected as Mr. Chen's vice president, Annette Lu, was intended as a "warning to the extremist elements" of Mr. Chen's Democratic Progressive Party. "The aim is to deter the extremists from doing reckless things."
Ms. Lu, a Harvard Law graduate and a longtime, forceful advocate of Taiwan independence, offended Beijing with remarks in a recent television interview. For more than a week now she has been subjected to daily denunciations in the official press as a "traitor" and "scum."
"By criticizing Annette Lu, the mainland is actually helping Chen Shui-bian," Mr. Xu said, by discouraging words or deeds that could cause a crisis in relations. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 693 TAIWAN SECURITY ENHANCEMENT ACT (57%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; UNITED STATES; CHINA; CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TAIWAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TAIWAN; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LEGISLATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ARMS TRADE (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (51%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); XU SHIQUAN BILL CLINTON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



539 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Gephardt Says China Trade Bill Will Erode U.S. Influence

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19

 BODY:
The House Democratic leader, Richard A. Gephardt, said today that he would oppose permanent normal trade relations with China because doing so would sacrifice American leverage over Beijing's behavior on human rights and religious liberties.
In a passionate rebuttal to many of the Clinton administration's pro-trade arguments, Mr. Gephardt said that giving up the annual Congressional review of China's trade status would be "a recipe for serious trouble." 
 "America should not trust the Chinese government to make progress on its own and unilaterally surrender our nation's ability to influence Chinese policy through trade," Mr. Gephardt said in a speech in St. Louis.
Mr. Gephardt's announcement puts him at odds with virtually every senior Democrat in his party, from Mr. Clinton and Vice President Al Gore, the presumptive presidential nominee, to the Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota.
But given Mr. Gephardt's strong ties to organized labor, which opposes the measure, his decision came as no surprise. He has spoken to Mr. Clinton about his views, most recently last week, and called Mr. Gore on Tuesday to explain his decision, aides said.
Laura Nichols, Mr. Gephardt's spokeswoman, said the call to Mr. Gore was "a simple notification." A spokesman for Mr. Gore said the vice president, who has been calling wavering Democrats in recent days, had no comment on Mr. Gephardt's decision or their conversation. Mr. Gore's presidential rival, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, supports the measure.
More important for Mr. Gore and for congressional Democrats eager to retake the House this fall, Mr. Gephardt has vowed not to let the vote divide the party in the fall elections. He says he will not make the China trade vote a litmus test of party loyalty or lobby his colleagues, leaving that chore to the No. 2 House Democrat, David E. Bonior of Michigan, who also opposes the measure.
The vote on China's trade status will determine to what degree the United States benefits from China's expected entry into the World Trade Organization.
"The manner in which Dick has conducted himself has really allowed us to secure a significant number of Democratic votes," said Representative Cal Dooley of California, a top Democratic vote counter for the measure who today predicted victory.
The crucial vote is set for the week of May 22. As many as 150 Republicans will likely support the measure, leaving Democrats in favor scrambling to scrape up the rest needed to reach the 218 votes for passage. About 40 undecided House Democrats control the measure's fate, and in interviews today, many expressed conflicting views on the significance of Mr. Gephardt's announcement.
Mr. Gephardt's timing is significant because the House is in a two-week recess, and during this last extended time at home before the vote, uncommitted lawmakers will be the target of lobbying from both sides.
In his speech at Webster University to an audience of students and civic leaders, Mr. Gephardt at one point sought to calm a debate over China trade that he said "has become overly polarized." But then in animated remarks, he assailed arguments for the deal, which he said put the nation's economic interests ahead of its equally important commitment to human freedom around the world.
"Sustainable development and worker rights must be at the core of our trade policy," Mr. Gephardt said. "Otherwise, we have no assurance that trade will contribute to enhanced living standards at home and abroad."
Acknowledging that the global economy is transforming market forces, Mr. Gephardt said he was neither "a protectionist, nor am I a free-trader," but rather an advocate for trade accords that incorporate tougher labor, environmental and human rights standards.
"There's no debate about whether America should engage China," he said. "The question is how to engage so trade access can be matched with steady progress toward greater human rights and rule of law in China."
House Republican leaders, who had been suspicious of Mr. Gephardt's silence until now on the trade bill, criticized him for being out of step with new economic realities.
"Mr. Gephardt's decision is based not on sound economic principles," Speaker J. Dennis Hastert said. "Rather it is based on fear, fear of the political power of big labor, fear of the implications of the new economy, fear of the future." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 884 (93%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); RELIGION (72%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR) AL GORE (89%); TOM DASCHLE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



540 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Poverty Found To Be Rising In Families Considered Safe

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
For years, antipoverty efforts have stressed work, education and marriage as the way up the economic ladder for the single, jobless mothers who seemed to account for the bulk of urban poverty.
Now a new analysis of census data shows that in New York City, in the midst of an economic boom, poverty rates rose sharply among just the kind of families with children that were supposed to be safe: those that include two parents, a worker and a household head with more than a high school degree. 
 Comparing three years ending in 1998 with the last comparable stretch of prosperity, in the late 1980's, the study found that the overall rate of poverty in New York City among families with children climbed to 32.3 percent from 29.3 percent, despite a rise in education and employment that would have been expected to reduce poverty.
The official federal poverty threshold is $13,133 for a family of three.
The study, released yesterday by the nonprofit Community Service Society, suggests a collision of several trends: the growing gap between rich and poor, a surge in immigration and, as welfare changes push recipients off the rolls, increasing competition for low-end jobs with eroding wages.
The most optimistic interpretation is that new immigrants are a major factor and that as they assimilate, they will move up and into the middle class. But more ominous trends are seen by Mark Levitan, the author of the study and a senior policy analyst at the Community Service Society, which has been tracking poverty for years.
The gains in education and increases in jobs were outweighed by the emergence of a "new poor" within groups long considered largely immune to poverty, he said, as middle rungs of the economic ladder disappear.
For example, poverty rates rose by 10.6 percentage points for families headed by people with some college, and increased by 4 percentage points for families headed by someone with a bachelor's degree or more. Poverty also rose for families that included one worker, by 8.2 percentage points, even as poverty rates fell by 6.9 percentage points for families with no worker present. And for families headed by a married couple, the poverty rate rose by 6.7 percentage points, even as it dropped by 5.1 percentage points for families led by women.
Along with the rise in these poverty rates, the demographics of families below the poverty line shifted, with more of them having higher education, jobs and two parents in the household.
Though the study is the first of its kind, it echoes recent reports by the state comptroller's office that have highlighted an increase in payroll jobs paying less than $25,000 a year, coupled with a decline in the number of payroll jobs paying higher wages, and a study by the nonprofit Fiscal Policy Institute tracking a sharp increase in the working poor in New York City that has outpaced a similar trend in the nation.
The working poor include people like Doris Argueta, a cashier at the Metropolitan Opera House cafe, who looks at the furs and jewelry of operagoers and wonders why her wages were stuck in the $6 an hour range for two years and still have not risen above $7.66 an hour, despite a push by employees to unionize.
"Sometimes, I think because I don't speak very well English they're going to pay like that," said Ms. Argueta, 32, who left El Salvador seven years ago and shares a two-room apartment with her child and an unrelated family.
They also include John Hunter, 37, a father of six, who feels he gained no real ground moving from $6 an hour as a security guard in the late 1980's to $7 an hour buffing floors and scrubbing toilets in a building near Wall Street for a cleaning company.
His wife works fluctuating hours at a shoe store on Staten Island, where she is making $7.45 hourly after three years. "We're finding it very hard to pay bills," Mr. Hunter said. "I'm not getting ahead at all, not with the wages I'm being paid and no benefits."
Marcia Van Wagner, chief economist for State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, called the results of the structural shifts distressing.
"At the low end, you have lots of jobs and declining real income," she said. "At the high end, you have not that many jobs, but increases in inflation-adjusted earnings" like exercised stock options. The rewards of increasing productivity are concentrated at the high end of the spectrum, she said.
"This wasn't supposed to happen," said David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society. He said that the signs documented in the new study were "ominous" coming at the height of an economic boom.
But Lawrence Mead, a professor of political science at New York University who has written extensively in support of the welfare overhaul, disagreed, calling the increase in poverty small compared with the sharp reductions in city welfare rolls. Families are better off over all if they earn money rather than getting it from welfare, he asserted, even if their incomes drop.
"I'm not saying it won't be trouble in the future," Professor Mead added. "I think there is enough increase in the labor supply due to welfare reform that there might be some tendency for real wages to fall slightly. I'm not saying that welfare reform is finished: there is a question of making work pay."
The city's figures stand in sharp contrast to the nation's as a whole, which had a flat poverty rate of 15.8 percent for families with children in both periods, and tiny, probably statistically insignificant increases in poverty among the more educated, Mr. Levitan said. According to the Fiscal Policy Institute study released last year, the number of working poor families increased by 60 percent in New York during the 1990's, much faster than the nationwide increase of 24 percent.
One reason for the difference is that the city is one of a handful of places in the nation that draw poor immigrants from around the globe, Mr. Levitan said. But the proportion of poor families that are foreign-born is roughly the same as in the population as a whole, he said, contending that the trends captured in the study cannot be explained away by immigration alone.
Other factors he cited were changes in the city's economy that were ahead of the rest of the country, like the rise in corporations using temporary or contract workers.
"The problem is," Mr. Levitan said, "we are telling people to climb out of poverty on a downward-moving escalator."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 21, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A chart yesterday illustrating characteristics of families with children below the poverty line in New York City referred incorrectly to the group of families with at least one worker. Those include both full- and part-time workers, not just full-time workers.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "DEMOGRAPHICS: The New Poor"
As poverty rates rose, the percentage of people with children living below the poverty line in New York City who were well educated and have at least one member of the family working full time grew over the last decade. Figures are averages based on census data collected from 1987 to 1989 and from 1996 to 1998.
 
Percentage of families living below the poverty line in which the head of the household ...
 
1980's
 
DID NOT FINISH HIGH SCHOOL: 60.2%
FINISHED HIGH SCHOOL: 28.7%
ATTENDED COLLEGE: 7.6%
HAD A COLLEGE DEGREE OR HIGHER: 3.5%
 
1990's
 
DID NOT FINISH HIGH SCHOOL: 52.4%
FINISHED HIGH SCHOOL: 24.6%
ATTENDED COLLEGE: 17.0%
HAD A COLLEGE DEGREE OR HIGHER: 6.0%
 
Percentage of families living below the poverty line that had...
 
1980's
 
AT LEAST ONE WORKER IN THE HOUSEHOLD: 28.9%
NO WORKER: 71.1%
 
1990's
 
AT LEAST ONE WORKER IN THE HOUSEHOLD: 47.3%
NO WORKER: 52.7%
 
Percentage of families living below the poverty line whose households were headed by...
 
1980's
 
HUSBAND AND WIFE: 18.4%
WOMAN ONLY: 80.0%
MAN ONLY: 1.6%
 
1990's
 
HUSBAND AND WIFE: 25.7%
WOMAN ONLY: 70.7%
MAN ONLY: 3.6%
(Source: Community Service Society of New York)(pg. B9)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NY COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NY COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (95%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); POVERTY RATES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TRENDS (90%); FAMILY (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); CENSUS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); IMMIGRATION (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA JOHN W HUNTER (55%); DORIS ARGUETA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000



541 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES;
The Euro Falls Below 94 cents On Talk Rates May Not Rise

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The euro fell to a record low against the dollar yesterday and could fall further on prospects that the European Central Bank will not raise interest rates next week or try to prop up the currency by intervening in the market to buy euros.
The single currency fell for a fourth consecutive day against the dollar, settling in New York at 93.82 cents, compared with 94.04 late on Wednesday, its lowest ending price since it was introduced at the start of last year. Intraday in New York, the euro traded as low as 93.54 cents. 
 "The market is going to dump euros at any opportunity," said Per Norr, a trader at Den Norske Bank, adding that dealers would probably sell it "and just wait for something out of the E.C.B." The likelihood of central bank intervention rises if the euro falls to 90 cents, as some analysts predict, he said.
United States economic strength and a degree of stock market recovery have pushed the dollar higher this week, while the euro was hurt by a weaker-than-expected report on German business sentiment, political upheaval in Italy and concern that the impasse between Austria and the European Union would remain unbroken.
In a little more than 15 months, the euro has weakened about 20 percent against the dollar and 25 percent against the Japanese yen, as the 11-nation euro zone economy has not picked up as quickly as some investors had anticipated.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since Jan., 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DNB (OSL) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (70%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (70%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (92%); DNB NOR ASA (70%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES EURO (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO ZONE (78%); TRENDS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



542 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
DDB Worldwide takes on the daunting task of changing consumers' ideas about J. C. Penney.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliot 

 BODY:
ONE of the most successful campaigns that changed consumer perceptions about a retailer was created by the old Doyle Dane Bernbach agency, for the Ohrbach's department store chain. Yesterday, the successor shop to Doyle Dane, DDB Worldwide, was named to handle that daunting task for perhaps the most troubled of large contemporary retailers, J. C. Penney.
After a three-month review that began with the dismissal of Temerlin McClain in Irving, Tex., the Penney agency for almost nine years, the retailer named DDB as its agency of record. DDB, part of the Omnicom Group, will develop marketing initiatives for the flagging Penney department stores and catalog as well as its shopping Web site. 
 The famed retailer Stanley Marcus, who turned 95 yesterday, helped DDB land the assignment, with billings estimated at $100 million to $200 million; Mr. Marcus, retired from Neiman-Marcus since 1976, served as a consultant to the agency.
The Penney change is indicative of the increasing importance being placed on advertising and marketing by retailers, particularly in the realm of brand-building campaigns. Chains like Target, Banana Republic, Pottery Barn and Old Navy have attributed their popularity in part to decisions to spend considerable sums on burnishing their images as well as on sales and promotions.
DDB offices in Chicago, Dallas and New York -- along with siblings like Spike DDB, a joint venture with the director Spike Lee, and Rapp Collins Worldwide, a direct marketing agency -- will work on shining up the tarnished Penney name as much as they will strive to help peddle more merchandise.
That kind of turnaround is one of the most difficult assignments for an agency, because shoppers are notoriously fickle. Their impressions of the images of retailers are based to a large degree on intangible elements: Do friends coo or cringe when they see you carrying a bag bearing the name of a store? Do you feel clever or cheated when you compare the prices you paid with those charged by another retailer?
"We attracted 13 million new customers last year, but the bad news was we lost 15 million customers," said Stephen Farley, senior vice president and chief marketing officer at the J. C. Penney Company in Plano, Tex. "We need to get the brand to be more sticky, if you will."
"What J. C. Penney has to do is look in the mirror and understand what the customer has to say about us," said Mr. Farley, who has worked for agencies like N. W. Ayer and Saatchi & Saatchi as well as retailers like Payless Shoe Source. "She's not angry with us, she's indifferent. We've fallen off her radar screen. We need a better understanding of how to meet her needs."
"DDB exhibited a tremendous passion for the business as well as an understanding and appreciation of retail," he added. "And if you look at the agency's history in terms of building brands, that's important."
Needham Harper Worldwide, another DDB predecessor, worked for Montgomery Ward and Sears, Roebuck. And when Doyle Dane opened in 1949, Ohrbach's was a founding client. The agency created campaigns unusual in that era for their humor and low-key tone, which produced perceptions of Ohrbach's as a source of fashionable apparel at reasonable prices for canny consumers.
For instance, a print ad showed a sulking boy under the headline "We regret to inform you your school stuff is ready at Ohrbach's."
Though Ohrbach's has gone the way of Gimbels, S. Klein and Woolworth, present-day retailers like Old Navy and Target are presenting themselves in similar ways.
"It really always starts with the customer, who ultimately defines a brand," said Keith Reinhard, chairman at DDB, who spoke to reporters in conference calls with Mr. Farley from the agency's Chicago office. "We have a passion for representing the customer's point of view."
"The Penney brand has a lot of friends," he added. "Our job is to turn all those friends into lovers."
Attitudes about retailers can turn on a dime -- or a Penney. In the 1980's, a makeover for Penney, focused on clothing and home furnishings, proved a hit; the New York agency now known as N. W. Ayer & Partners, part of the B Com3 Group, played a crucial role in that turnaround. But Ayer lost the account in the early 1990's when Penney sales slumped during the recession.
Ayer was replaced by Temerlin McClain, now part of True North Communications. That agency's hold on the Penney account was initially strong because of sales-building image ads carrying themes like "Doing it right."
But recently, Penney sales began to slump as shoppers shifted their loyalties to discounters like Target and specialty chains like Gap and Old Navy. In February, Penney announced a 34 percent decline in profit for the fourth quarter of 1999, the closing of 45 unprofitable stores and the dismissals of employees.
"The most important thing is recognizing you're doing something that's not working," Mr. Marcus said in a telephone interview from Dallas, "and having the will power to overcome internal resistance to change."
Mr. Marcus said he was brought in as a consultant by Mr. Reinhard, who "became aware of me about six or seven years ago by reading one of my books, 'Minding the Store.' He asked, 'Would you help us out on this Penney account because I must tell you, we're not doing so well.' I visited a number of Penney stores, and a group of people I gathered visited the stores, and we compared notes."
"The report I wrote looked at Penney from the customer's point of view," Mr. Marcus said, "not the manufacturer's or Penney's. We thought some things were wrong, but nothing is always 100 percent."
Mr. Farley declined to discuss the strategy for a new campaign, planned for the fall, that he is already discussing with DDB. But he indicated that the company and the agency "have a unique opportunity" to persuade "the time-starved customer that Penney can provide her with all the things she needs under one roof, rather than piecing it together at a series of stores."
The Penney dismissal of Temerlin McClain in early January involved all creative tasks except the St. John's Bay line of apparel. DDB had earlier been named to handle two Penney lines, Arizona apparel and home products. Media buying, which had been handled by Mediavest in New York, another B Com3 unit, will be shifted to OMD USA, part of Omnicom. Media planning will be handled by DDB's Optimum Media.
The review began with five agencies invited to take part. In March, one participant withdrew: the Chicago office of FCB Worldwide, part of True North. That left as contenders DDB and three other agencies, all based in New York. They were: the BBDO Worldwide unit of Omnicom; McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising, part of the McCann-Erickson World Group unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies; and Saatchi & Saatchi. On April 7, Penney narrowed the review to two finalists, DDB and BBDO.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (95%); OMC (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); TEXAS, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); DALLAS, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: PENNEY, J C, CO; DDB WORLDWIDE; TEMERLIN MCCLAIN J C PENNEY CO INC (95%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (94%); TEMERLIN MCCLAIN (57%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (51%); PAYLESS SHOESOURCE INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENNEY, J C, CO; DDB WORLDWIDE; TEMERLIN MCCLAIN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); TEXAS, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); DALLAS, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ADVERTISING; ACCOUNT CHANGES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES RETAILERS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BRANDING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); AWARENESS MARKETING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (75%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); SALES PROMOTIONS (73%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART HAROLD STANLEY 'STANLEY' MARCUS (71%); SHELTON JACKSON 'SPIKE' LEE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



543 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: The Next Balkan Crisis

 BODY:
Throughout the war in Kosovo last year, there was a sharp contrast between the behavior of Montenegro and Serbia. Although is it part of a Yugoslavia led by Slobodan Milosevic, Montenegro has a Western-oriented, democratic leader, Milo Djukanovic. Montenegro took in Albanian refugees, sheltered Serbia's dissenters and parried attempts by Mr. Milosevic to take control of the republic. 
 Now, however, Mr. Milosevic is trying again. To hold him off, Montenegro needs more financial and political help from the West. Although the republic has only 650,000 people, it is strategically important. A democratic and prosperous Montenegro would show Serbia's residents that life in Yugoslavia does not have to be miserable. If Mr. Milosevic takes over a region that was the focus of so much Western attention and rhetorical support during the war, he will gain a significant symbolic victory and further destabilize the Balkans.
In a recent interview with The Times, the normally restrained Mr. Djukanovic accused Belgrade of trying to overthrow him by creating a 1,000-member paramilitary unit and stationing it in Montenegro. Mr. Milosevic already has the Serb-led Yugoslav Second Army, with more than 10,000 members, stationed there -- enough men to give Mr. Djukanovic's loyal police a fight. During the war, these soldiers tried to impose a form of martial law. They are at it again. They have taken over airports temporarily, installed television transmitters on military bases -- useful for broadcasting Mr. Milosevic's propaganda -- and muscled their way into border patrols.
Mr. Milosevic would have trouble garnering public support for a war with Montenegro, a republic ethnically similar to Serbia. He seems to be trying to provoke Mr. Djukanovic into overreacting, which could offer a pretext for a coup.
Mr. Milosevic is also undermining the economy in hopes that Mr. Djukanovic will lose public support to Mr. Milosevic's allies. Belgrade is blockading Montenegro, which is heavily dependent on Serbia for trade. And Belgrade's threats have killed Montenegro's possibilities for foreign investment and resumption of tourism.
The West essentially needs to subsidize Montenegro until Mr. Milosevic leaves power. Given the republic's size, this is not that difficult. The United States gave $55 million last year, and will supply the same amount this year. European nations have also been generous. But because Montenegro is not a country, it has not gotten desperately needed money to rebuild infrastructure or restructure industry from the World Bank and other lending institutions. They should make an exception for Montenegro, as they have done for Kosovo.
The international community opposes formal independence for Montenegro, because it could provoke Serbia and encourage further turmoil in the Balkans. But Western leaders should visit, speak about Montenegro's importance and open trade and cultural offices there. The world should begin using Montenegro's port of Bar to help supply aid to Kosovo. Unless America and its allies make clear that they still care about Montenegro, Mr. Milosevic will move to gain control of the republic. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (98%); SERBIA (98%); MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTENEGRO; SERBIA; SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (98%); SERBIA (98%); MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); COUPS (76%); REFUGEES (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



544 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: SOCCER;
M.L.S. Wins a Suit Filed by Its Players

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
A federal judge has upheld the legality of the single-entity ownership structure of Major League Soccer, a decision that the league hopes will lead to a collective-bargaining agreement with its players.
In 1997, 10 M.L.S. players filed suit in United States District Court in Boston, alleging that the league, having completed its first season, violated antitrust laws by illegally holding down salaries. 
 Under the single-entity concept, the 12 M.L.S. teams are centrally owned, and the league office controls player movement and salaries.
Each M.L.S. team is run by an investor-operator.
In denying the players' claim against the league, United States District Court Judge George A. O'Toole Jr. ruled on Wednesday that the single entity of the M.L.S. "cannot conspire or combine with its investors" and "its investors do not combine or conspire with each other in pursuing the economic interests of the entity."
O'Toole rejected the players' contention that the M.L.S. structure reduces competition in the professional soccer market in the United States.
The judge wrote that "the founding investors of M.L.S. created both a new company and simultaneously a new market, in effect increasing the number of competitors from zero to one."
A lawyer for the players, Jeffrey Kessler, said he plans to appeal the ruling. Three other claims against the league remain to be decided at trial.
Mark Abbott, the M.L.S.'s chief operating officer, said, "Our frustration is that we've wanted to negotiate with our players, but the players filed an antitrust suit rather than collectively bargain." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER LLC (58%); UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SOCCER; LABOR; COLLECTIVE BARGAINING SOCCER (94%); JUDGES (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LAWYERS (75%); APPEALS (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; O'TOOLE, GEORGE A JR (JUDGE) GEORGE A O'TOOLE JR (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



545 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: Russian Banks Hold Enigmas Within Mazes;
U.S. Tries to Follow Path Of Suspected Wrongdoing

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
Not long ago, MDM Bank, one of the hundreds of modest-sized banks that sprang up here after the collapse of communism, offered a service that allowed Russian companies to cut costs, at the government's expense. Instead of paying salaries to their employees -- and the associated pension contributions to the government -- they gave the employees interest payments on company deposits in the bank.
Though MDM has discontinued this service, it is an example of the Alice-in-Wonderland world of Russian banking, where such complex maneuvers have been the order of the day. 
 "A major business for Russian banks is to find ways to do transactions in an economically efficient way," said Richard Hainsworth, the Moscow representative for Thomson Financial BankWatch, a credit rating agency. "And that means getting around taxes and getting around obstructions. That is the way you survive in the Russian environment."
Such was the state of banking here when billions of dollars slipped out of Russia from 1996 to 1999 in an alleged tax-dodging and money-laundering scheme that has resulted in some criminal charges, including those against a former Bank of New York executive.
American prosecutors have not charged the Bank of New York with any crime. Nor have they charged any Russian bank. But, seeking to untangle the maze, the prosecutors have been looking at MDM and three other Russian banks mentioned in documents filed in the Bank of New York case.
Lucy Edwards, a former Bank of New York executive, and her husband, Peter Berlin, pleaded guilty in February in Federal District Court in Manhattan to a range of criminal charges, including money laundering. According to the criminal charges filed against the couple, MDM and Sobinbank were the principal owners of DKB, one of two conduit banks involved in an operation that moved some $7 billion through front-company accounts at the Bank of New York. MDM and Sobinbank, the charges say, also moved money through correspondent accounts at the Bank of New York. Both banks said they helped raise new capital in 1996 for the other conduit bank, Commercial Bank Flamingo.
DKB has lost its banking license, according to the Russian central bank's Web site. Flamingo was raided last fall, and Russian prosecutors have brought charges of "illegal banking activity." Sobinbank was also raided, but says it has not been informed of any charges against it.
MDM and Sobinbank both say they have done nothing wrong. They argue that what they did do they did at the direction of clients, and that the web of interconnections in Russian banking have confused prosecutors about their role. Gleb A. Kostin, the 30-year-old deputy chairman of MDM, argues that the only problem is "the cultural difference" between America and Russia. American prosecutors, he said, "don't know anything about Russian banking."
Nonetheless, a look at the banks mentioned in the case provides a glimpse of the tangled Russian banking world.
As Mikhail Kasyanov, Russian first deputy prime minister, acknowledged this month at a briefing in Washington, while inviting foreign banks' help in reforming the sector, most Russian banking institutions "have never been banks in the real sense."
Often, they were the private preserves of their owners, known as "pocket" banks or political banks, giving the owners a ready source of money for investments. Banking and tax regulations, coupled with inconsistent oversight, encouraged banks to offer ways around high tax rates, onerous employment requirements, foreign exchange rules and regulations that made it hard for Russian companies to get their hands on even a small amount of cash. In addition to catering to their insiders, Russian banks moved a lot of their assets out of the country, setting up operations in favorite offshore banking havens.
"You had almost no chance of finding a Russian company absolutely clean, from a legal point of view, in the early and mid-1990's," said one Russian banker. "The job is to separate those who did do something illegal but are still honest from those who are doing something illegal and are dishonest."
Sobinbank's 1998 annual report, the latest one written under international accounting standards, suggests it was a pocket bank, existing for the needs of its investors. It gave out 80 percent of its loans to just five borrowers that year. Though it would not say who the five were, the report said that 58 percent of its loans that year were to the energy sector, 12 percent to space and aircraft and 4 percent to cities and municipalities. The bank's major investors, directly or indirectly, include Russia's largest natural gas company, a top oil producer, a major space company and the developer of a major underground shopping mall linked to the Mayor of Moscow.
The report also shows that Sobinbank moved a big portion of its assets -- nearly 40 percent -- outside the country. In 1998, Sobinbank had foreign exchange transactions totaling 3.14 billion Russian rubles (about $515 million before the August 1998 devaluation and about $110 million at current rates) with one related party that the bank refused to name. The transactions indicate it was outside of Russia.
MDM, whose formal name is Moscow World Business Bank, and Sobinbank are, typically, politically well connected. And they illustrate the intertwining relationships common in Russian banking.
At one time, each had investments in the other. And Aleksandr Mamut, a young banker who was closely tied to the inner circle of former Russian President Boris N. Yeltsin, has held high positions at each bank, including his current post as chairman of MDM's coordination council.
One of Sobinbank's main investors was SBS-Agro, a bank headed by Aleksandr Smolensky, who has ties to the prominent financier, media mogul and master political intriguer Boris A. Berezovsky. (SBS-Agro largely collapsed during the financial crisis of 1998, as did many other banks.)
Sobinbank and MDM also illustrate the kind of activities that stretch the use of the word "bank."
In the salary-substitution scheme offered by MDM Bank, a company would take a loan from the bank and redeposit the cash from the loan in the bank. It would then make interest payments on the loan. The bank would pay a higher interest rate on the deposit than the company paid on the loan, and the difference would be paid to the company's employees instead of salaries. The banks received compensation for providing this service through other moves.
Maneuvers like MDM's "are generally set up so that they do not break the law," Mr. Hainsworth of Thomson Financial BankWatch said. "However, they achieve things that the authorities would like to forbid."
Mr. Hainsworth's firm has examined MDM Bank and given it a credit rating of CCC, the highest Thomson now gives in Russia because the government has defaulted on its debt. "We talked about it," he said of the interest-for-salary swap.
Mr. Kostin, MDM Bank's deputy chairman, reluctantly acknowledged the existence of the ploy but said it was not used anymore.
The most complicated procedure in the banking system is the method for raising capital, which can conveniently hide a bank's real owners. According to Mr. Kostin and Mr. Hainsworth, in 1996 the Russian central bank, seeking to prevent any single person or company from controlling a bank, limited who could invest in a bank and how much they could invest.
So investors took to finding a group of companies or banks or both willing to purchase all or part of the equity in the bank for them. After the sale was approved by the central bank, the companies that "invested" would sell the stock to companies chosen by the real investors, according to Mr. Kostin and Mr. Hainsworth.
This is the role that MDM Bank said it played in raising capital for both DKB and Flamingo Bank, the banks through which American prosecutors say a lot of the money moved in the alleged money-laundering scheme. Mr. Kostin said that in 1996, at the direction of a client, MDM Bank bought stock in Flamingo Bank and held it from Sept. 3 to Dec. 10, and owned stock in DKB, or Depozitarno-Kliringovy Bank, from June 13 to Dec. 10. After that, Mr. Kostin said, the stock was sold to other companies, also at the client's direction. He would not name the companies or the client.
MDM Bank says that it was just acting for a client in the transactions, and that it is cooperating with Russian and American law enforcement officials.
Sobinbank officials declined to comment for this article. But a spokesman referred to a February interview with the financial newspaper Vedomosti. In the article, Aleksandr Zanadvorov, Sobinbank's chairman, also said his bank was just acting for a client when it held an interest in DKB and Flamingo.
A Russian banker involved in the Bank of New York investigation said that Sobinbank was the organizing bank in raising capital for DKB and Flamingo Bank, and that both DKB and Flamingo were actually bought for one or both of the DKB bankers who are said by American prosecutors to be co-conspirators of Ms. Edwards and Mr. Berlin.
Officials involved in the investigation have identified the two men that prosecutors referred to as co-conspirators in the charges against Ms. Edwards and Mr. Berlin as Ivan Bronov and Kiril Gusev. Both worked at DKB at some point, and Mr. Bronov also once worked with Mr. Zanadvorov of Sobinbank. Neither Mr. Gusev nor Mr. Bronov has been charged with any crime.
The Edwards-Berlin charges say that the men moved to take control of Flamingo Bank in 1998, two years after the capital-raising efforts for DKB and Flamingo that MDM Bank acknowledges. MDM Bank says it did not help raise new capital for DKB or Flamingo Bank in 1998.
The Russian banker also told American prosecutors that the group organized by Sobinbank to buy DKB and Flamingo involved at least five other banks, some of which are now effectively defunct as a result of the 1998 financial crisis, though they were a who's who in Russian banking at the time.
In his February interview with the newspaper Vedomosti, Mr. Zanadvorov of Sobinbank said that a team of managers from a prominent Moscow bank that had lost its license asked Sobinbank to help them acquire DKB and Flamingo. "Such deals," he said, "are usual in banking practice."
Usual, that is, in Russian banking practice.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by VCG/FPG; Associated Press (inset); Illustration by Olga Rapoport and Chris Engel/The New York Times)
 
Charts:
Chart shows the share of banks with capital of 30 million rubles or more, since 1998.
 
Chart shows total number of banks operating in Russia.
(Source: Central Bank of Russia)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK; MDM BANK; SOBIN BANK (RUSSIA); DKB (RUSSIAN BANK) BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); OJSC MDM BANK (91%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NEW YORK; MDM BANK; SOBIN BANK (RUSSIA); DKB (RUSSIAN BANK)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; MONEY LAUNDERING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; BANKS AND BANKING; TAXATION; TAX EVASION TAX FRAUD (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); MONEY LAUNDERING (87%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); CREDIT BUREAUS (54%); 

PERSON: EDWARDS, LUCY; BERLIN, PETER; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



546 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Fall, Hitting 26-Year Low

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20

 BODY:
The number of Americans signing up for unemployment benefits fell last week to its lowest level in more than 26 years, remaining under 300,000 for a 10th straight week, the Labor Department said today.
In the report, which indicating that the labor market is remaining tight, the Labor Department said that initial claims for unemployment benefits declined to 257,000 in the week ended last Saturday -- the lowest since 256,000 in the week ended Dec. 1, 1973 -- from a revised 266,000 the previous week. 
 Total claims were also well below Wall Street economists' expectations of 266,000.
Previously, the department reported jobless claims at 264,000 for the week ended April 8.
The four-week moving average, considered a more reliable indicator of the labor market because it smooths out weekly fluctuations, also fell to 262,500 in the latest week.
It was the lowest since 256,750 in the week ended Dec. 15, 1973. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



547 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Gillette Earnings Drop as Retailers Cut Orders

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Gillette said yesterday that first-quarter earnings fell 4.1 percent, less than expected, as retailers in Europe and Latin America cut orders to clear out excess inventory.
Gillette warned in October that profit would be hurt as mergers and improved inventory systems led to a surplus of goods in some retailers' warehouses. But efforts to bring inventories in line and to sell lagging units, like Paper Mate and Parker pens, have set the stage for a rebound in the second half, analysts and investors said yesterday. 
 "They are getting their act together. The company is on the comeback trail," said Alan Skrainka, chief market analyst with Edward Jones & Company."
Gillette earned $258 million, or 24 cents a share, compared with $269 million, or 24 cents, in the quarter a year earlier. Sales rose 5.5 percent in the first quarter, to $2.05 billion. The first-quarter results were better than the forecast from First Call/Thomson Financial.
Gillette also said that it expected to meet earnings forecasts for the second quarter and full year. And it expects sales to rise by a percentage rate in the low- to middle-single digits in the second quarter and by the upper-single digits for the year.
"We expect major benefits from the improvement occurring in certain economies whose earlier weakness hindered our growth," the chief executive, Michael C. Hawley, told shareholders at Gillette's annual meeting in Boston.
In Russia, for instance, sales rose more than 30 percent in the quarter from a year earlier. "We've seen similar growth in Argentina, Brazil and several Asia-Pacific markets," Mr. Hawley said.
During the first quarter, sales of razors and blades rose 10 percent. Sales of Braun electric appliances rose 14 percent.
Duracell battery sales, however, declined 2 percent, while sales of stationery products fell 4 percent.
Shares of Gillette rose 50 cents, to $37.625. The stock has fallen 24 percent the last 12 months.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (90%); PG (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (90%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (90%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (90%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (90%); EUROPE (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); ASIA (72%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: GILLETTE CO THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: GILLETTE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (90%); EUROPE (90%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); ASIA (72%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); BOSTON, MA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MERGERS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL C HAWLEY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



548 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: U.P.S. Beats Earnings Estimates

BYLINE: ByBloomberg News 

 BODY:
United Parcel Service reported first-quarter earnings yesterday that exceeded Wall Street estimates, as the company shipped more packages and gained overnight shipments in competition with FedEx.
United Parcel benefited from rebounding economies in Europe and Asia, expanded deliveries overseas and more shipments of goods ordered over the Internet, analysts said. 
 "U.P.S. is very well positioned for what's going on in the economy, while FedEx is still repositioning itself," said Peter Coleman, an analyst with Banc of America Securities. "It's important for U.P.S. that they show strong international growth, which they did, but also show strong domestic growth."
Overnight air shipments in the United States, traditionally a stronghold of FedEx, increased 9.7 percent at United Parcel Service in the quarter. FedEx has reorganized its business to capture more Internet-related shipments and improve slower-than-expected growth in its domestic shipments.
The company, based in Atlanta, earned $813 million, or 67 cents a diluted share, compared with $499 million, or 44 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. The most recent results included a gain of $139 million, or 11 cents a share, from investments in two Internet companies and the sale of a truck leasing unit and a charge for job creations tied to a labor dispute. Profit from operations climbed 35 percent, to $674 million, or 56 cents a share -- 4 cents better than estimates. Revenue increased 14 percent, to $7.22 billion.
United Parcel Service increased rates as much as 3.5 percent effective Feb. 7 to make up for jet-fuel prices that more than doubled and diesel prices that climbed 32 percent from a year earlier. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%); UPS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE FEDEX CORP (93%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); SHIPMENTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); FUEL MARKETS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); DIESEL FUEL (64%); JET FUEL (50%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



549 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: In Illinois, China Trade Bill Pulls Congressman 2 Ways

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: EFFINGHAM, Ill., April 18

 BODY:
Representative David Phelps, a freshman Illinois Democrat, is an obscure backbencher with a safe seat here in farm country. But he finds himself at the center of a storm over landmark legislation to normalize trade relations with China.
As one of about 40 undecided House Democrats who will probably control the bill's fate next month, Mr. Phelps is being pulled in opposite directions by the diverse constituency in his sprawling district. 
 Corn and soybean farmers hit hard by plunging prices, as well as international agribusiness giants like Caterpillar and Archer Daniels Midland, are urging him to vote yes to help open rich new Chinese markets to American goods.
But longtime labor allies who work in the district's factories are lobbying hard against the deal, an important step in China's expected entry into the World Trade Organization, saying it would cost hundreds of union jobs here in southern Illinois and reward a repressive Communist government that has cheated on other trade pacts.
"I've tried to do my homework, but it's just not that easy," Mr. Phelps told a group of labor, farm and business leaders here. "Human rights and environmental concerns are at the top of my list, but I don't want to look back on my first term and feel I hurt the country's prosperity."
Mr. Phelps's silence on how he will vote has catapulted him into a limelight he has not enjoyed since his days as a professional gospel singer and writer of tunes that the Oak Ridge Boys recorded.
During the last several weeks, labor and business have come calling to Washington and to his seven offices in a district that is one of the largest east of the Mississippi River, stretching more than 200 miles, from the blue-collar city of Decatur in the north to the oil and coal fields of the south, hard by the Kentucky border.
Teamsters, steelworkers, boilermakers and Chinese human rights advocates have trooped in. ("It seems like there have been hundreds of them," he sighed.) Mr. Phelps paid a two-hour visit to the White House to hear President Clinton's pitch for the deal. On Monday, Mr. Phelps and other lawmakers will join Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman on a visit to China to get a firsthand look. It will be his first trip outside the United States.
"He's got a district that's really tough to balance," said Commerce Secretary William Daley, Mr. Clinton's point man on the measure, who recently dropped by Mr. Phelps's Washington office to talk trade. "It's a microcosm of some of difficulties of trade in the new world economy."
Mr. Phelps, a conservative 52-year-old former Illinois state legislator who opposes abortion and gun control, has been careful not to tip his hand, even to political friends.
"He's clearly agonizing over this decision," said Margaret Blackshere, president of the Illinois A.F.L.-C.I.O., who met with Mr. Phelps last week and considers him a stalwart union supporter worthy of his 89 percent record of voting with labor last year.
Mr. Phelps is not the only wavering Democrat under political siege at home.
With the House in a two-week recess and members back in their districts for the last long period before the crucial vote, supporters on both sides are waging an all-out grass-roots war on the airwaves and in rallies and town meetings to pull the fence-sitters their way.
The Business Roundtable, a major business group, has opened a $4 million national television, radio and print advertising campaign, centered on 50 Congressional districts, including those of Mr. Phelps and other undecided House Democrats like Max Sandlin of Texas, Bud Cramer of Alabama and Tom Allen of Maine.
The group has also developed ads promoting the benefits to American agriculture, business and high-tech companies, as well as to national security. "This recess is absolutely critical for solidifying a number of members and putting us over the top," said Johanna Schneider, a spokeswoman for the Business Roundtable.
At the same time, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. on Tuesday will begin focusing on 14 wavering Democrats with its own ad blitz featuring footage of forced Chinese prison laborers and workers toiling in sweatshops. A coalition of labor, environmental and human rights groups is also staging rallies and conducting bus tours through Texas, Florida and the Northeast.
The arithmetic of the vote explains why suddenly everyone cares what Mr. Phelps thinks about China. About 150 Republicans are expected to favor the measure when it comes up for a vote the week of May 22, leaving Democratic supporters to scrape up the rest to reach the 218 needed for passage. Both sides say the outcome is too close to call. Senate approval is considered certain.
The problem for Mr. Phelps and his uncommitted colleagues is whether to surrender Congress's annual review of China's trade status, and its leverage over Beijing's behavior on human rights and worker standards, and give China the same trading privileges the United States grants virtually every other nation.
The decision this week by the House Democratic leader, Richard A. Gephardt, to vote against the measure weighed heavily on Mr. Phelps. "I won't deny that it has an influence on me, coming from someone of his stature who hopefully will be my next speaker," he said.
At the meeting of labor and farm leaders that Mr. Phelps arranged here, 210 miles south of Chicago, he got an earful from both camps, which sparred from opposite sides of a rectangular table in the town board room.
Opponents assailed China's human rights records and Beijing's dubious record on previous pacts on matters ranging from textiles to intellectual property. Many said they still felt betrayed by the North American Free Trade Agreement of 1993, another trade accord the administration championed.
"Everyone watched on TV when China massacred its own students," said Mike Shampine, president of the Decatur Trades and Labor Council, a group of 44 trade unions, referring to the crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square in 1989. "China has violated every agreement it ever had with us."
Supporters listed the economic benefits of passage: Tariffs on beef would drop to 12 percent from 45 percent; on poultry, to 10 percent from 20 percent. Hog farmers said pork demand would increase by $3 million a year.
And they also answered the human rights criticism. "We're all horrified by what happened at Tiananmen Square," said Julie Moore, president of the Chamber of Commerce for Decatur and Macon County. "But we have a better chance of helping the Chinese people if we are there."
Passionate personal pleas spilled from speakers. Olin Clayton, 49, a steelworker from Raymond, Ill., recounted that glass and rubber factories where he once worked had closed, the jobs shipped off-shore. "We're not building a better future here," Mr. Clayton said. "We're not living the American dream."
But Harry Fehrenbacher, 52, a fifth-generation hog farmer from Newton, Ill., said that without the bill's passage and expanded trade with China, small family farms like his could fall victim to the harsh economic realities of globalization.
"It'll be a slow death," Mr. Fehrenbacher said. "Nothing will happen tomorrow. But there won't be enough to survive on."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative David Phelps, freshman Democrat of Illinois. (Chet Piotrowski Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. A6)
 
Chart: "The 19th District In Illinois"
Chart shows the demographics for Illinois.
(Source: The Almanac of American Politics 2000)(pg. A6)
 
Map of Illinois highlighting the 19th District In Illinois (pg.A6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 884 (92%); 

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (84%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (84%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (84%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (84%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (84%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (84%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ORGANIZED LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; AGRICULTURE; FARMERS LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LOBBYING (79%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); AGRICULTURE (76%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); SOYBEAN FARMING (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CORN FARMING (73%); GUN CONTROL (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC; PHELPS, DAVID (REPR); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



550 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Opposing Views Emerge On Aetna's Deal in Texas
The settlement between Aetna U.S. Healthcare and the Texas attorney general, which both sides called a "landmark" model for the rest of the nation, has run into opposition from some physicians and other state attorneys general.
Aetna U.S. Healthcare, a unit of Aetna, agreed last week to settle a Texas lawsuit that accused it of providing improper financial incentives to doctors to limit patient care and other violations of Texas law. Page C2. 

Blue Chips Gain, but Nasdaq Slips
Stock prices were mixed in a quiet end to a week that started amid apprehension. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 169.09 points, or 1.58 percent, to 10,844.05. The Nasdaq composite index fell 62.53 points, or 1.69 percent, to 3,643.88, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 7.07 points, to 1,434.54. C7.
 
Caught in the Middle on China Trade
Representative David Phelps, a freshman Illinois Democrat, is in a position to view both sides of the debate over improving trade relations with China. As one of about 40 undecided House Democrats who will probably control the bill's fate next month, Mr. Phelps is being pulled one way by the agriculture industry and another way by labor allies. A1.
 
Drugmakers' Profits Up in Quarter
Bristol-Myers Squibb said its first-quarter profit rose 15 percent, and Schering-Plough said its profit rose 17 percent, even as increased competition slowed the pace of sales for their biggest drugs. C5.
 
Gillette said first-quarter earnings fell 4.1 percent, to $258 million, or 24 cents a share, but the results were better than expected. C18.
 
Newspaper Companies Post Profits
Times Mirror, publisher of The Los Angeles Times, and Knight Ridder, the nation's second-largest newspaper publisher, reported first-quarter profits that more than doubled results in the period a year earlier. C5.
 
BellSouth Reports $1 Billion Income
BellSouth, the dominant local telephone company in the Southeast, said that it earned $1 billion, or 53 cents a share, exceeding Wall Street forecasts, with strong growth in its data, wireless and international operations. C6.
 
Song-Swapping Web Site Blocked
Two universities said they would block access to an online song-swapping site after a rock band sued the schools, contending that the site encourages copyright violations. C18.
 
British Wireless Concern Purchased
Marconi, Britain's largest telecommunications equipment maker, said it would acquire Metapath Software International for $618 million to push into the wireless market and provide software and other support services to the major wireless telephone operators. Lord George Simpson, chief executive of Marconi, said he expected the acquisition to multiply the company's revenue. C4.
 
Japan Phone Operator to Cut Back
NTT DoCoMo, Japan's largest mobile telephone operator, said it would cut sales of cellular phone handsets that offer Internet access, suspend advertisements for its Internet service and make refunds to customers because it has not been able to expand its service fast enough to meet rising demand. C4.
 
Red Tape Trips Vietnam's Economy
The economy of Vietnam, hobbled by government red tape, balky customs officials and overly aggressive tax collectors, is suffering as foreign investment has dwindled from $4 billion a year a few years ago to $1.4 billion this year. The problems are most acute in the north, even though government officials in Hanoi have encouraged foreign companies to locate operations there. A3.
 
Markets Closed Today for Holiday
Markets in the United States and most other countries are closed today in observance of Good Friday. Government offices and most banks will be open in the United States.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,844.05 up 169.09
Nasdaq composite -- 3,643.88 down 62.53
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.83% down 0.01
The euro -- $0.9382 down 0.0022
The dollar -- 105.73yen up 0.95
 
Graph tracks Nasdaq daily closes since Thurs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (84%); NDCM (LSE) (81%); DCM (NYSE) (81%); 9437 (TSE) (81%); BMY (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (81%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (81%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (54%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AETNA INC (84%); NTT DOCOMO INC (81%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (65%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (54%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (54%); TEXAS, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (95%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (86%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (85%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (84%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPANY REVENUES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (66%); COMPANY LOSSES (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%); POP & ROCK (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%); COPYRIGHT (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID PHELPS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



551 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
The Politics of Primavera

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: ROME

 BODY:
If Italian politics were a pasta it would be, without question, primavera -- all sorts of vegetables, or in Italy's case all sorts of parties, mixed together with no rhyme or reason. The broccoli's thrown in next to the carrots, the former Communists with the capitalists, and most of all, says the Italian commentator Lucio Caracciolo, no beef anywhere.
In case you missed it, Italy's prime minister, Massimo D'Alema, resigned Wednesday after his center-left coalition was trounced in regional elections by the center-right coalition led by the "Go Italy" party of the media baron and former lounge singer Silvio Berlusconi. What were the issues? Hmmmm. Mr. Berlusconi's party, named after a soccer chant, was described by one Italian commentator in La Repubblica as "united in the cult of the leader and the ideology of television." 
 Italian politics is a perfect illustration of what happens when you move from cold-war politics to globalization politics and the parties don't quite adjust. All the parties here know that under the pressure of globalization, Italy has to stay within the strict budgetary guidelines of the European Monetary Union and that the real issues revolve around the pace and extent to which Italy globalizes. But in this new play, Italian parties are still wearing their old masks, and are jumbled together in left-right coalitions that make no real sense.
Mr. D'Alema's center-left group includes Catholics, former Christian Democrats and reformed Communists who are now advocates of Italy's globalizing -- alongside Italy's major unions, which hate the European Union and everything associated with globalization that might threaten their welfare benefits. Mr. Berlusconi's center-right group has Thatcherite free-marketers along with Northern Leaguers, who want to secede from Italy, as well as former Fascists who want to help the poor South and hate the E.U. Got that?
Hey, U.S. politics is just as jumbled. We and the Italians both need a four-party system. If America had a four-party system it would look like this:
1. The Wall Party: The Walls would be led by Pat Buchanan and Ralph Nader and would include the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the Green Party and all those Americans who would prefer a cold-war-like world of walls -- where U.S. workers were not so threatened by low-wage countries, where multinationals couldn't expand and threaten the environment so widely, and where a more regulated economy made for a less prosperous, but tamer, world and for a more isolated America. The Walls' symbol would be the Berlin Wall, and their official journals would be Mother Jones, Guns and Ammo, Sierra magazine and The Nation.
2. The Web Party: The Webs would be led by the real Al Gore, and would advocate expanding Nafta and global integration. Their thrust would be to align America with the new economy while repairing our safety nets and retraining workers to better compete rather than putting up walls. The Webs would include all the U.S. high-tech and service workers. Their symbol would be WWW and their official journals would be Wired magazine, Fast Company and Red Herring.
3. The American Hezbollah: American Hezbollah, or Party of God, would be led by Pat Robertson and would be focused on anti-abortionism and bringing God into public school and public life. Its symbol would be the cross and its news organ the Christian Broadcast Network.
4. The Let-Them-Eat-Cake Party: The Cakers believe in winner-take-all, loser-take-care-of-yourself. They are led by the real George W. Bush, and their ranks are drawn from Wall Street and all the dot-commers and libertarians in Silicon Valley who think we should shrink government and let the Nasdaq and computers rule. Their symbol is a thin slice of cake, and their official organs are The Wall Street Journal and Forbes.
What Italian and U.S. parties now have in common is that they can't get elected without their weird coalitions and they can't rule anymore with them. Because in the age of globalization, our old two-party coalitions are not just made up of different shades of the same color -- they are now made of totally contradictory forces. The Democratic A.F.L.-C.I.O. is now the leading force against the Clinton administration's top priority -- free trade and W.T.O. for China. And the Christian right, which wants rule by God, is stuck with Republicans who want rule by markets.
I say no more politics primavera. Let carrots be with carrots, Walls with Walls and Webs with Webs. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: ITALY (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY; ITALY (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); COLD WAR (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); RELIGION (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L RALPH NADER (79%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (78%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



552 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: States Declare War On Divorce Rates, Before Any 'I Dos'

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

 BODY:
The wedding day was set, guests invited, and Linda Santarelli and Teddy Roland mused about a beach ceremony near their home in Loxahatchee, Fla.
Then they learned of a new state law giving couples a marriage-license discount if they took a marital education class. More for the information than the price break, they said, they took a four-hour class last spring, a month before the wedding. By the end of it, they were convinced they were moving too fast. 
 "We postponed our wedding after that just to make sure we could work a few things out," especially a clash between his Jehovah's Witness background and her penchant for tarot cards and past-life regression, said Ms. Santarelli, 41, a massage therapist. "We're right on the verge of resolving our problems."
That is just what Florida lawmakers wanted when, determined to discourage divorce, they began pushing Marriage 101. And across the country, other states want couples who say "I do" to mean "I really really do" -- and couples who already did to stay married.
The proposals are gaining popularity as states recognize the high social and economic costs of divorce, and have money to enact the relatively low-cost plans.
Wisconsin wants to hire a "community marriage policy coordinator," a kind of marriage czar, who would urge the clergy to set requirements for engaged couples before marriage, like mentoring with a long-married couple no cohabitation, or a long waiting period.
Arkansas's governor, Mike Huckabee, a Republican, has declared a "state of marital emergency" and is exploring a tax credit for couples taking a marital course.
Utah includes marital skills in high school curriculums; Florida makes a marital course a high school graduation requirement.
And Oklahoma's governor, Frank Keating, also a Republican, has just unveiled a $10 million "marriage initiative" program, including a "scholar-in-residence" to do marriage research and train people to teach marriage classes at welfare, health department and even agricultural extension offices.
"Tell me the sense of a system where it is easier to get a marriage license than it is to get a hunting or driver's license," Mr. Keating said, "easier to get out of a marriage with children than it is to get out of a Tupperware contract. Ours is an effort to encourage families to appreciate the lifetime commitment of a marriage contract, to recognize that a marriage that can be saved should be saved."
The initiatives are attracting support not only from family-values conservatives, but also some liberals. Critics of the programs say government is meddling in marriage, even though all the measures enacted so far are voluntary, relying chiefly on the bully pulpit and advertising promotions, like Florida's $32.50 off an $88.50 marriage license.
Some states, like Arizona, Oklahoma and Wisconsin, are using surplus federal welfare money to finance the programs, since the welfare act encourages supporting all "two-parent families." Some critics of the programs say the money should be spent solely on the poor.
With close to half of marriages ending in divorce, states say they are feeling the effects. David Popenoe, co-director of the National Marriage Project at Rutgers University, said broken families were more likely to need public assistance and to lack health insurance than those that remained intact. The children of divorced parents are more prone to emotional problems that can lead to truancy, drug abuse, teenage pregnancy or juvenile delinquency.
"There's so much money spent in what I call the wipe-up," said Abbie Vianes, executive director of the Governor's Commission on Marriage in Utah, which holds marriage skills conferences. "We spent over $33 million last year in just collecting unpaid child support. Welfare dollars are used on divorced moms. And there is a loss to business in worker productivity -- when home doesn't go right, work doesn't go right."
The marital education efforts also reflect the fact that most states are awash in surplus cash, Dr. Popenoe said, and that there are few pressing social and economic issues dominating their agendas. The programs are in effect in about 10 states. The classes include compatibility quizzes; exercises on listening, expressing feelings, giving praise and arguing respectfully; and sessions on financial, religious or family conflicts. Some teachers are therapists or members of the clergy, but some states train nonprofessionals to teach, believing couples relate to them better.
Wisconsin's program, modeled on a program called Marriage Savers, works through the clergy to encourage couple-to-couple mentoring and a premarital regimen similar to that of many Roman Catholic churches.
"It's ridiculous -- creating a state bureaucrat that's going to make all of our marriages better," Attorney General James E. Doyle of Wisconsin said of his state's plans. "The role of the state is fighting drug-trafficking and crime and having a good school system. The relationships within my family, that's my business, not the government's."
The critics of other states' marital programs echoed that view.
The marital plans are less controversial and morality-tinged than the covenant marriage laws enacted in Arizona and Louisiana that allow couples to sign rigid marriage contracts permitting divorce only because of adultery, abuse, abandonment, imprisonment of a spouse or long marital separation. In Arizona and Louisiana, only about 3 percent of couples are estimated to have chosen the covenant option. Critics of the covenants object to forcing couples to choose between two types of marriage contracts, and they say they fear that children could be trapped in bad marriages.
Diane Sollee, a marriage therapist, self-described feminist and founder of the Coalition for Marriage, Family and Couples Education in Washington, says the initiatives have support because new research shows marriage is, frankly, good.
"The experts used to be saying -- and I was one of them -- that women do better single than married and that marriage doesn't really matter for kids," Ms. Sollee said. "Now the research is coming in, and it says 'Whoops, we weren't right.' Married women do better on everything you can measure: children's well-being, sexual satisfaction, financial well-being. And men do much better married than single -- in the same job a married man is paid more than a single man."
William J. Doherty, professor of family social science at the University of Minnesota, said research suggested the emotional fallout for children of divorce did not fade, but worsened with time, causing them "trouble getting into stable adult relationships." And, Dr. Doherty said, most divorces happen in marriages without severe conflicts, suggesting the marriages could be repaired.
Dr. Doherty helped write a bill just passed by the Minnesota Legislature that allows $50 off a $75 marriage license if couples take a 12-hour premarital class. The bill was vetoed by Gov. Jesse Ventura, who said government should not be involved in marriage counseling. The Legislature may override the veto.
The Wisconsin plan, signed into law last fall, drew criticism because it says the marriage coordinator would work with the clergy, but does not mention secular figures who perform marriages. A Wisconsin organization, the Freedom from Religion Foundation, sued to block the plan, calling it unconstitutional.
An amended bill that includes secular language has passed the Assembly and awaits action in the Senate.
Some in Wisconsin lampoon the idea of a marriage bureaucrat, but few make fun of marriage initiatives in the Bible Belt, where divorce rates, counterintuitively, are highest. In 1998, Arkansas had the third-highest rate (6.1 per 1,000 people), behind Nevada with 8.5 and Tennessee with 6.4. Oklahoma, which had some counties where divorces exceeded marriages in 1998, was fourth, with 6 per 1,000 people.
"I don't know if it is a matter of our religious background leading more people to get married rather than simply living together," Chris Pyle, Arkansas's director of family policy, said, "or that people in Arkansas marry fairly young. Also, the education levels, I would suspect, are low," another factor correlated with divorce.
In New York (with the lowest divorce rate -- 2.5 per 1,000) and New Jersey (3.1), marriage initiatives have not come up. Connecticut (2.9) defeated a bill to require premarital counseling in 1997.
Do marital classes work? Not enough research exists, experts say.
Michael J. McManus, founder of Marriage Savers, which has persuaded the clergy in 124 cities to sign covenants agreeing to set premarital requirements, says divorce rates have decreased significantly in at least 25 of the cities. But divorce has also declined slightly nationally and Mr. McManus said he had not tracked couples who actually participated in Marriage Savers.
A study by Howard J. Markman and Scott Stanley, psychologists at the University of Denver who developed a marital skills program, found participants were half as likely to be divorced in five years of marriage.
Utah's marital conference has buoyed the 10-year marriage of Layne and Jennifer Brown of Riverton.
"Most people wait until they're sick to go to the doctor, but you really need to go in for those check-ups," said Mrs. Brown, a teacher. "That's kind of what this is. It's not going to save a marriage that is falling apart. But so many couples don't even realize they've lost their marital relationship until the kids are gone and they look at each other and say, 'You know I don't like you very much anymore.' We're determined that's not going to happen to us."
In Florida, where couples must take at least a four-hour class or wait three days after obtaining a marriage license, a class helped Mindy Felinton, an animal rights lawyer in Boca Raton, resolve a dispute with her fiance about how hot or cold the house should be. But they ultimately broke up before marriage because he hated her dogs.
O. J. and Evelyn Whatley of Hollywood, Fla., found their 10-session course eye-opening. "Before the class we'd have all kinds of screaming fights, and then the only way it would end is if she left the room or if I left the room," said Mr. Whatley, 30, a broker. "We still have those kinds of fights. But when it's something that's significant, we have a framework for discussing it and respecting each other's feelings."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Patrick Sieben and Rebecca Miscera, right, during a pre-marriage counseling session earlier this week in Eau Claire, Wis., with their mentors, Larry and Violet Ballard. The Ballards are working under a Wisconsin marital program modeled after a plan called Marriage Savers. (Matthew F. Witchell for The New York Times); Tom Thumson and Cindy Mantello, who are planning to marry on May 6, attending a marital education class in Winter Park, Fla. (Kevin Kolzynski for The New York Times)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: EAU CLAIRE, WI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN; UTAH; ARKANSAS; FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); EAU CLAIRE, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MARRIAGES; DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS; TAX CREDITS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); MARRIAGE (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); FAMILY LAW (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); CURRICULA (77%); FAMILY (77%); DRIVERS LICENSES (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (69%); RELIGION (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (65%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM MICHAEL HUCKABEE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



553 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 4370 words

HEADLINE: COCAINE WAR: A special report.;
A Web of Drugs and Strife in Colombia

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: MONTCLART, Colombia

 BODY:
Nearly half the world's supply of cocaine originates within 150 miles of this isolated Colombian military outpost on the Putumayo River. So when Lt. German Arenas and his anti-drug troops recently set out by boat, they knew that finding a target would be the easy part.
Four hours later, his squadron of young marines stopped and marched into the equatorial wilderness, guns at the ready. By nightfall, they had found three crude cocaine-processing laboratories in the jungle, more than 6,000 seedlings of a new, more potent variety of coca plant, a half-dozen large fields brimming with ripening coca bushes and four hapless peasants. 
 But after they destroyed as much as they could, arrested the peasants and headed back downriver, the soldiers left behind at least 200 more labs hidden in the dense, trackless jungle and thousands more acres of coca plants, visible from the air everywhere across southern Colombia.
Over all, to the growing alarm of the Clinton administration, which has been bankrolling much of the anti-drug fight here, coca production in Colombia has more than doubled in the past five years. Using recent satellite images, American officials estimate that the country now grows or processes more than 500 tons of cocaine a year, or some 90 percent of the world's supply, and that Putumayo and Caqueta provinces are responsible for two-thirds of that.
But here as in many parts of southern Colombia, the army and the police dare not send spray planes and helicopters to eradicate the fields because the instant they appear, the aircraft invariably draw ground fire from the Marxist guerrilla forces that thrive on the drug trade.
The principal rebel group, the 15,000-strong Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or F.A.R.C., has been fighting the government since the mid-1960's, financing their war for most of that time with kidnappings and extortions.
But that has changed sharply in recent years. With the smashing of the notorious Medellin and Cali cartels, the guerrillas gained greater access to a far more lucrative source of income: coca and heroin. Now the rebels provide protection and support to the dozens of smaller trafficking groups that have sprung up to replace the cartels, and they are earning, by the Colombian government's estimate, more than $1 million a day.
That, in turn, has blurred the lines of what was once painted in relatively simple terms as an ideological battle between a pair of left-wing insurgencies that enjoy almost no popular support and a flawed but functioning democracy. Along the way, the focus of the conflict has shifted so that while the government still controls most of the country's territory, the war itself is increasingly being fought over cocaine and heroin.
On one side is the popularly elected government of President Andres Pastrana and its thin and poorly trained security forces. On the other are the increasingly well armed and richly financed leftist guerrillas. Equally menacing are the right-wing death squads, which have a long history of collusion with elements of the Colombian military and are also dealing in drugs.
"It is the only self-sustaining insurgency I have ever seen," said Gen. Charles E. Wilhelm, who is responsible for Latin America as commander in chief of the United States Southern Command. "There is no Cuba in back of it; there is no Soviet Union in back of it. It is this delicate merger of criminals, narco-traffickers with insurgents."
After nearly a decade of trying with little success to give government forces the edge in this confrontation, the White House and Congress are on the verge of the biggest gamble yet: a $1.6 billion package over two years that would beef up anti-drug training for the Colombian police and military and provide them with better equipment, including more than five dozen helicopters.
Critics in the United States and in the region worry that Washington is embracing an unrealistic plan. They say that Colombia lacks a concrete strategy for quickly getting the job done, that attacking cocaine at the source will be more difficult in Colombia than it was in neighboring countries, and that ultimately American military advisers will be drawn into the broader war between the guerrillas and the government.
The Combatants
 
Coca Brings Shooting From Many Directions
In the jungle and the farming villages, the distinction that the Pentagon and the State Department try to draw between arming an anti-drug war and avoiding Colombia's long-running civil conflict is blurred. The drug trade finances both the leftist insurgents and their rivals, the paramilitary death squads, who often operate with the tacit support of Colombian Army units.
"When people are shooting at you, it is hard to determine their immediate affiliation," said William Ledwith, director of international operations for the United States Drug Enforcement Administration. "Does it really make a difference if you are attacked by the F.A.R.C., the E.L.N., by paramilitaries or by a gang of narcotics traffickers wanting to defend their laboratories?" he asked, using the acronyms for the guerrilla groups. "To me, all the bullets are the same."
The rapid expansion of coca production in Colombia is in large part a consequence of two developments. One is what is known as the "balloon effect" -- the reappearance of a problem in a new place after it has been squeezed in another -- which followed successful American-led campaigns against coca growers in Peru and Bolivia.
The other, more recent development was a crucial miscalculation by President Pastrana. Elected on the promise of ending the debilitating war against the guerrillas, he tried to lure them to the negotiating table in 1998 by granting the leading guerrilla group control over a chunk of territory larger than Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island combined. The guerrillas quickly turned it into an armed protectorate and a coca-growing factory, and the peace talks have floundered.
The breakup of the powerful Medellin and Cali cartels -- the D.E.A. once called the latter "the most dangerous criminal group in history" -- was originally expected to cripple the Colombian drug business. But their demise actually served to spur coca cultivation in more remote regions of the country and to foster unholy alliances between new drug gangs on one side and the leftist guerrillas and paramilitary forces on the other.
Just five years ago, Putumayo and neighboring Caqueta province were perhaps the poorest and most neglected areas of the country. Today, they have become a paradise for coca growers, with more than 100,000 acres cultivated under the protection of the largest rebel group, F.A.R.C.
Colombian trafficking groups have not only pushed aside Peru and Bolivia, the traditional sources of raw coca leaf, but also have moved aggressively into the heroin business, replacing Southeast Asia and Afghanistan as the source of most of the heroin seized in the United States.
For the Colombian military, that is a formidable challenge.
Though the national armed forces look strong on paper, with more than 100,000 soldiers, barely a third of them are ready for fighting. Under a widely criticized law that reflects the class prejudice and favoritism that run through Colombian society, high school graduates are forbidden to participate in combat.
The Colombian 90th Marine Battalion, to which Lieutenant Arenas, 28, and his teenage soldiers belong, patrols more than 1,500 miles of waterways in a network of four major rivers with barely 1,000 men and a handful of boats.
"For an area like this, a thousand men is nothing," Lieutenant Arenas said as his gunboat, the A.R.C. Leticia, equipped with two cannons, two machine guns and a pair of grenade launchers, chugged up the Putumayo River, with only the sound of its motors breaking the quiet. "Even though my guys are motivated, skilled and happy to be here, they face a lot of limitations."
The American Role

Shoestring Operation Welcomes Assistance
The situation on the ground in Colombia had been eroding throughout the 1990's. But in 1994, just as the F.A.R.C. was beginning its big advance, the Clinton administration's relations with the Colombian government went into a deep freeze after Washington received information that President-elect Ernesto Samper had accepted $6 million in campaign contributions from drug cartels.
Normal ties resumed with the election of Mr. Pastrana in 1998. But it was not until the F.A.R.C. launched a nationwide offensive that brought it within striking distance of Bogota last July that the real dimensions of the crisis began registering in Washington.
Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, the director of the White House's Office of National Drug Control Policy and before that the commander of American military forces in Latin America, was the first to visit, and immediately began pushing President Clinton for emergency aid. That pressure, along with the major rebel action in July, convinced the White House of the seriousness of the situation in Colombia.
"It is essential the Colombian government restore state authority in this crucial region," General McCaffrey said during a more recent visit to a military base where three new anti-narcotics battalions, trained and financed with American assistance, are being formed. "The rapid expansion of drug production in Colombia, almost entirely in zones dominated by armed illegal groups, constitutes a drug emergency."
The biggest single item in the administration's proposed assistance package, which has been approved by the House and is pending in the Senate, is 63 helicopters, divided between 33 Bell UH-1N models and 30 more modern Sikorsky UH-60L Blackhawks, which are equipped with night-vision equipment and special armor. As the guerrillas and traffickers are aware, once training programs for crews and the construction of hangars are taken into account, the earliest date for complete delivery of the American-supplied equipment would be late next year.
Nevertheless, the prospect that American aid may soon begin flowing clearly excites the weary soldiers here. "Tell them we need air support, like the police get for their operations," said Lt. Gustavo Lievano, the marine unit's second in command.
A sergeant wanted to know, "How much more money are they going to give us to buy intelligence from informants?"
Illustrating the shoestring nature of operations here, on this mission Lieutenant Arenas was relying on walkie-talkies he paid for out of his own pocket while in the United States last year. Sometimes, even having enough gasoline for boats can be a problem.
But to some in Washington, the prospect of increased American involvement in Colombia is viewed much more warily.
"Before we quadruple our military aid and embark on an open-ended, costly commitment, the Colombian government needs to come up with a workable strategy," said Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont. "And our own administration needs to explain in detail what its goals are, what it expects to achieve at what cost over what period of time, and what the risks are, both to the thousands of Colombian civilians who will be caught in the middle when the war intensifies and to our own military advisers there.
"The Colombian government wants a blank check. That is not going to happen."
On the Colombian side, a recent poll shows that a majority of Colombians favor American intervention.
"Pastrana has shown that he doesn't know how to deal with this situation," said Diego Bedoya Hurtado, a Bogota accountant. "Only the Americans are going to be able to get us out this mess."
From the perspective of the Pastrana administration, however, the American aid package is only part of a broader effort. It hopes to combine American military aid with nearly $1 billion from European nations for social and economic programs, and loans from international organizations, making for a whopping $7.5 billion effort that mixes carrot and stick.
One additional concern, both in Andean capitals and in Washington, is that any success against coca cultivation in Colombia will inevitably lead to a resurgence of coca growing in Peru or Bolivia.
"The balloon effect in drugs is something that we are always looking at," said Mr. Ledwith, director of international operations for the D.E.A.
Coca growing in Peru and Bolivia has been cut by more than half following increased cooperation between their governments and the United States. Successful crop substitution programs are one reason, but Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori's policy of shooting down any drug plane flying over Peru has been a huge deterrent, as have stepped-up eradication efforts.
Thus the bulk of coca production has shifted to Colombia, where most of the processing and marketing operations were already located. Feeling relatively safe on their native soil, the coca-growing syndicates have invested heavily in developing more potent strains, some of which can be harvested in as little as 60 days.
Smaller, more vulnerable trafficking groups have gravitated toward insurgent-dominated areas like this one, paying a tax on their drug income to the guerrillas in return for protection from the Colombian government's anti-drug campaign.
In 1996, a United States intelligence summary concluded that while guerrilla units were selling protection "in virtually all departments where traffickers operate," only a few "probably are involved more directly in localized, small-scale drug cultivation and processing."
But that has changed dramatically over the past 18 months, since the Colombian government gave a chunk of territory to the F.A.R.C. That step in late 1998 was intended as a gesture of good faith to lure the rebels into peace negotiations.
Hopes that the long war with the leftist guerrillas could end were raised almost two years ago when Mr. Pastrana was elected as a peace candidate implicitly endorsed by the F.A.R.C.'s main leader, Manuel Marulanda.
Informal peace talks with the group began last year. But after Mr. Pastrana flew to San Vicente del Caguan, the largest town in the rebel-held zone, for the opening ceremonies, Mr. Marulanda delivered a calculated snub by failing to appear, sending subalterns instead and leaving Mr. Pastrana looking at an empty chair in front of television cameras and photographers.
Since then, the negotiations have repeatedly stalled, with the F.A.R.C. breaking off discussions every time the government refuses to bend to one of its demands, and the government eventually giving in. Though the agreement called only for military forces to withdraw, the F.A.R.C. has also driven mayors, judges and Roman Catholic priests from its zone.
The People

Ever-Present Violence Creates Nation of Fear
To the average Colombian, it appears that while the government and rebel negotiating teams quibble over procedural issues, the F.A.R.C. is building up its military might and its drug-trafficking capabilities.
As a result, cartoonists now routinely portray Mr. Pastrana as a shrunken figure too small for the presidential sash and his shirt and pants.
F.A.R.C. leaders quickly converted their area, bitterly referred to by locals as "Farc landia," into a major cocaine production center complete with airstrips for exporting the product. Now, the second largest left-wing guerrilla group, the Army of National Liberation, known by the Spanish acronym E.L.N., wants its own demilitarized zone.
In recent interviews in Caqueta, the province adjoining the F.A.R.C. haven, peasants -- none of whom were willing to be identified -- also complained of being ordered by local F.A.R.C. commanders to grow coca. Other peasant farmers in the region who were already cultivating coca say they are now forced to sell to a guerrilla-controlled monopoly at a price that is about half what their crop would have fetched on the open market a year ago.
The paramilitary death squads controlled by Carlos Castano and closely allied with elements of the Colombian Armed Forces have acted no differently. These paramilitary troops were originally protected by law, defending businesses and landholders from leftists guerrillas, and aiming their assaults at civilians they suspected of aiding the rebels.
The paramilitary units lost their legal status more than a decade ago, and moved heavily into the drug trade. Three years ago, the D.E.A. described Mr. Castano "as a major narcotics trafficker in his own right," and in a startling interview on Colombian television on March 1, the paramilitary chieftain acknowledged that the bulk of his group's money now comes from drugs.
As the conflict deepens, the situation for ordinary Colombians has grown worse. At least 35,000 people have been killed over the past decade, and more than 1.5 million people, most of them peasants, have been forced to leave their homes.
"First the paramilitaries came and told us to leave or they would kill us, and then when we were resettled, the guerrillas came and at gunpoint forced two of my sons to join them," said Javier Gonzalez, a refugee from Cordoba province in the northwest. "For the past three years, we have been sent from one place to the next, but everywhere we go, we are mistreated and abused."
In addition, at least 2 percent of Colombia's 40 million people -- some 800,000 mostly middle-class people -- have left the country since 1996, most of them for the United States. Investors are also fleeing in the face of extortion demands by guerrilla and paramilitary groups, and unemployment is at a record rate of one worker in five after a recession that shrank the economy by more than 5 percent last year.
A recent poll shows Colombians worry most about the pervasive violence that accompanies the drug crisis.
Colombia's murder rate is 10 times that of the United States, and its kidnapping rate is the highest in the world, thanks in large part to spectacular mass abductions like the E.L.N.'s raid on a Roman Catholic church service in Cali last year that resulted in more than 150 hostages.
"It feels like we are besieged, with an enemy just outside the castle walls waiting to pluck anyone who comes into their grasp," a doctor who lives in Cali said recently. "There is no longer anywhere you can go where you are safe."
More than five million people marched last fall in support of the "No Mas" civic foundation, which is demanding an immediate cessation of hostilities. But the leader of that movement, Francisco Santos, was forced to leave the country in mid-March after the F.A.R.C. threatened to kill him.
"There is a tendency to see the Colombian conflict as a table with two legs, the government versus the guerrillas," thereby ignoring the aspirations of civil society, Mr. Santos said recently in Miami.
The Hard Questions

A Brief Intervention Or a Prolonged Effort?
For the Clinton administration, the unraveling of the situation in Colombia has created an uncomfortable dilemma. While the United States is determined to diminish the flow of cocaine and heroin into American cities, especially with an election looming, it does not want to be pulled into what can only be a long, bloody and expensive campaign in Latin America's longest running guerrilla war.
"The situation on the ground in Colombia is increasingly complicated, but our policy is very straightforward," Brian E. Sheridan, the Defense Department coordinator for drug enforcement policy and support, said recently in testimony to a Congressional panel. "We are working with the Colombian government on counternarcotics programs. We are not in the counterinsurgency business."
But to Colombian military officers in the field, there is no such distinction. "To me, they are one and the same thing," Lieutenant Arenas said, clearly puzzled that anyone would suggest there is any difference between drug traffickers and guerrillas.
And while the Clinton administration is talking only of a two-year program, focused on the delivery of the helicopters and a training program for pilots, top Colombian military officials lay out a six-year campaign. They envision being able to break the F.A.R.C.'s control of coca-growing areas in the south in two years, after which the Colombian Armed Forces would focus on the Guaviare region in the country's heartland for two years and then northern areas dominated by paramilitary groups.
American officials contend that the only way the government can regain control of Putumayo and Caqueta provinces is through a coordinated effort in which the Armed Forces clean out guerrilla concentrations and are followed by police units that fumigate coca fields by air.
But very little in the battlefield record of the Colombian Army and Air Force inspires confidence in that kind of plan. Throughout the 1990's, the United States funneled most of its aid and training to the Colombian National Police because American officials regarded the Armed Forces as a bloated, corrupt and largely defensive force.
The American approach is also likely to exacerbate a longstanding debate about the most effective way to reduce drug cultivation. While aerial spraying is traditionally favored by the United States, many in Colombia argue that crop substitution programs similar to those that proved successful in Bolivia and Peru are more effective ways to wean peasant farmers from drug crops.
The aid package now before the United States Congress includes a hefty increase in financing for such "alternative development" programs, to $127 million over the next two years from $5 million in the last budget. But the experience of the National Plan for Alternative Development, the Colombian government's crop substitution agency, makes clear that coordinating aerial spraying and crop substitution programs requires a precision that has eluded American and Colombian experts.
Human rights groups see another, equally troubling problem in the White House aid package. They point to a long history of cooperation between some Colombian military units and Mr. Castano's right-wing death squads, or paramilitaries.
According to the Colombian prosecutor's office, the death squads killed nearly 1,000 people in more than 125 massacres in 1999. Recent reports by Human Rights Watch and the United Nations and investigations by Colombian prosecutors have singled out specific Colombian military units and commanders as having provided support to the death squads or having failed to heed calls for help from villages under attack.
To curb such abuses, Congress passed the Leahy Amendment in 1997, prohibiting the United States from providing assistance to any Colombian military unit that violates human rights. As a result, some Colombian battalions have been disqualified from receiving American aid, new units have been formed, and instruction in human rights has become a required part of Colombian military training. But critics of the Clinton administration's aid package insist not only that those restrictions be strengthened, but that new oversight mechanisms be included.
"The government paints a rosy picture, but the reality is that army officers who commit atrocities are almost never prosecuted," Senator Leahy, the author of the amendment, said recently.
"Links between the army and paramilitaries are widespread, and human rights investigators have had to flee the country."
R. Rand Beers, assistant secretary of state for international narcotics and law enforcement affairs, denied that paramilitary groups would get better treatment than their enemies on the left. "We are pressing the Colombian government to live up to the promise that they will go after the paras, and we will continue to do that," he said, referring to the paramilitary troops.
American policy, however, is to "go after the drugs wherever they are," Mr. Beers added. "We will start by going after the largest concentrations of those drugs, and right now that is in the south. So it's not that they are getting a free ride because they are paras. It's because the paras have fewer forces in the south than the F.A.R.C. at this time. That said, the paras are increasing their presence in the south, and are becoming a more significant problem there."
Even without the aid package, the United States' commitment in Colombia is already growing. The Colombian battalions patrol the rivers of southern Colombia in American-made Pirana vessels, and last year, a Riverine War School opened in Puerto Leguizamo with some classes by visiting American instructors.
"We've had your Coast Guard come in to show how to board vessels, your Army and Marines to teach combat on land and water, the Miami police to demonstrate detention methods," Lieutenant Arenas said enthusiastically. Many of the Americans leave equipment and supplies behind as gifts, a gesture that is deeply appreciated by troops who are short of everything from boots and maps to two-way radios.
At any given moment, 80 to 220 American military officials are working in Colombia, according to the United States Embassy in Bogota. The largest concentrations are at Tolemaida in the center of the country, and Tres Esquinas in the southwest, where the first of three counternarcotics battalions was trained last year and two more battalions are scheduled to be formed this year.
All told, American aid to Colombia has grown by 3,500 percent since 1993, General McCaffrey said. That makes Colombia the largest recipient of American aid outside the Middle East even without the new flows of equipment and training under discussion.
Washington clearly hopes that this large one-time injection of new aid will prove sufficient for the Colombian government to regain the upper hand.
But Fernando Cepeda Ulloa, a former minister of the interior and ambassador to the United States, was speaking for many Colombians, and some Americans, when he recently suggested that a pair of fundamental questions remain.
"Is the elimination of narcotics trafficking the key to achieving peace, or is the achievement of peace necessary to the elimination of narcotics?" he asked. "That is a dilemma that has to be analyzed and contemplated."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Colombian marine battalion, trained with American assistance, destroying a cocaine laboratory. (Alex Quesada/Matrix)(pg. A1); Despite efforts by government troops to destroy the crop, thousands of acres of coca plants remain visible by air across southern Colombia, with production more than doubling in the past five years. A group of Colombian marines raided a field recently. (Larry Rohter/The New York Times)(pg. A13)
 
Chart "Growing an Illicit Crop and Cultivating a War"
Colombia is now the source of 90 percent of the cocaine and two-thirds of the heroin seized in the United States. Cultivation of coca and poppies has more than doubled in the past five years, and the profits of drug trafficking are increasingly going to guerrilla and paramilitary groups.
 
Chart shows coca cultivation (in acres) for Colombia, Peru and Bolivia
 
(Source Office of National Drug Control Policy)(pg. A12)
 
Maps of South America highlighting Colombia and a blow-up of Colombia highlighting cocoa cultivation areas. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOLIVIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); PERU (79%); 

COMPANY: ;CALI CARTEL; MEDELLIN CARTEL F A R (53%); OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;CALI CARTEL; MEDELLIN CARTEL OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOLIVIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); PERU (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; HEROIN; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SURVEYS AND SERIES COCAINE (95%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); HEROIN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (89%); CARTELS (85%); CIVIL WAR (78%); NARCOTERRORISM (78%); ARMIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); HELICOPTERS (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%); POLITICS (60%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; PASTRANA, ANDRES (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



554 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: Widening Economic Gap Keeps Vietnam Divided

SERIES: Vietnam Today

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HAIPHONG, Vietnam, April 19

 BODY:
Just outside this port city on Vietnam's northeastern coast lies the Nomura-Haiphong Industrial Zone, a 377-acre swath of land as green and table-flat as the rice paddies next to it. Where the smokestacks and assembly lines of giant factories were supposed to rise, there are only windswept fields, stretching unbroken to the horizon.
Nomura, the Japanese bank, has fought a losing battle to lure foreign companies since it opened the zone in 1997. Only two set up shop here last year, an auto-parts maker and a chemical plant, both Japanese. Ho Dinh Tien, the zone's good-natured executive director, who keeps watch from a dozy office at the front gate, said Nomura no longer even sets goals for the number of new occupants. 
 "There was a time when foreign companies came to Vietnam," Mr. Tien said as he gazed wistfully out the window. "Now is not that time."
In its grandeur and folly, Nomura's field of dreams epitomizes what has gone wrong with the Vietnamese economy since it first opened to the outside world in 1988. Built to catch the flood of foreign investors into Vietnam, the zone -- and many others like it in northern Vietnam -- has been strangled by government red tape, balky customs officials, and overly aggressive tax collectors.
Yet 700 miles south, on the outskirts of Ho Chi Minh City, the former Saigon, one finds an entirely different world. There, in Dong Nai province, factories have sprung up like tumbleweeds along the dusty north-south highway. Nike, Fujitsu, and dozens of other foreign companies are churning out athletic shoes, circuit boards, and cigarettes. Despite ramshackle facilities and an almost comical lack of central planning, Dong Nai has become the fastest-growing region in the country.
"You have these two competing forces in Vietnam: one focused on production and the other on extraction," said Thomas J. Vallely, the director of the Indochina program at the Harvard Institute for International Development. "The question is, which is going to prevail?"
For years, Mr. Vallely and other experts believed that Vietnam's enterprising south would drag the more cautious, politically encrusted north into the global economy. But 25 years after the war that unified Vietnam, the north and south remain divided economically. And the gap is widening: Dong Nai's exports grew by 22 percent in the first half of 1999, while Haiphong's declined by 15 percent.
Despite the south's success, some experts say it is the old-style Communists in Hanoi, not the capitalists in Ho Chi Minh City, who have the upper hand in the battle for Vietnam's future. Hanoi has balked at signing a trade agreement with the United States. And despite years of promises, it has done little to clear the bureaucratic underbrush that makes Vietnam a deeply frustrating place to do business.
"Sadly, although Vietnam has become more competitive in absolute terms, it is less competitive relative to its Asian neighbors than it was a few years ago," said Wolfgang Bertelsmeier, the chief of mission of the International Finance Corporation, a division of the World Bank.
Foreign direct investment, which used to pour into Vietnam at a rate of more than $4 billion a year, trickled to $1.4 billion in 1999 and is likely to fall further this year. Those numbers overstate the actual dollars flowing into Vietnam, since the government approves many more projects than are built. Experts figure that the country drew no more $600 million in hard dollars last year.
Some of the decline is due to the Asian crisis, which forced big spenders like Japan and South Korea to pull in their horns. But much of it can be laid to Vietnam's stifling bureaucracy. Companies like Oracle have folded their tents, while others, like Procter & Gamble, have fallen into bitter disputes with their Vietnamese partners.
Dwindling foreign investment has sapped Vietnam's exports and hobbled its growth. After barreling along at 9.5 percent in 1995 and 8.8 percent in 1997, Vietnam's economic output fell to 5.8 percent in 1998 and 4.8 percent last year. Economists say it will be lucky to match that this year.
While neighbors like the Philippines have developed thriving electronics industries, Vietnam is struggling to hold on to its handful of technology investors. Even those companies that are welcomed by the Vietnamese, like Fujitsu, must wait years to get their projects approved.
"When we first came here, we had many problems negotiating with Hanoi," said Shuzo Kawashima, the president of the Fujitsu factory in Dong Nai, which employs 2,728 workers. "They kept changing their minds. Now we deal only with the local government, which is much easier."
Mr. Kawashima showed a visitor around his factory, which has Vietnam's first "clean room" for assembling advanced computer circuits. At the rear of the plant is a loading dock, where customs officials from Dong Nai inspect and stamp boxes of Fujitsu circuit boards before they leave the factory. The boards are then exported to Japan, Thailand and the Philippines, where they are installed in laptop computers.
Unlike companies in the north, officials at Fujitsu said they rarely have trouble with customs officials. They said the provincial authorities were also helpful in the day-to-day issues of running a factory, like providing reliable electricity and adequate waste-water treatment.
Nike has also gravitated to southern Vietnam. All five of its contract factories are within a two-hour drive of Ho Chi Minh City, even though workers' salaries there are the highest in the country. Nike's contractors employ more than 45,000 workers, making it the leading source of private employment in Vietnam. Many of these people have migrated to Dong Nai from the north.
Nguyen The Thu Nga, a 27-year-old woman from Quang Binh province in north-central Vietnam, used to sell fish and vegetables in her village. Three years ago, she came to work in a Nike factory, where she glues together the rubber soles of running shoes. The work is grueling and the Korean bosses are strict. But life is better than in Quang Binh, where Ms. Nga said her village was ruined by recent floods.
"For a farmer in Vietnam, having a stable job and a basic wage is enough," Ms. Nga said, as she played with her baby after a 10-hour shift.
Executives at Nike said the Vietnamese government regularly encourages the company to shift manufacturing to the north. Among other things, such a move would stem the tide of migration to Ho Chi Minh City, which has become dangerously overcrowded in recent years.
But Chris Helzer, Nike's director of government affairs in Vietnam, said, "To build a factory up north would present problems that would be difficult to overcome."
Vietnamese officials are well aware of the north's poor reputation among foreign investors. They explain it as a vestige of Vietnam's history, in which the south was exposed to the capitalism of the United States while the north languished in the orbit of the Soviet Union. Over time, they insist, northern officials will shed old habits.
"The south is absolutely more dynamic and creative than the north, but only in the short term," said Nguyen Chon Trung, vice chairman of Ho Chi Minh City's industrial zone authority. "The government will develop policies to strike a better balance between north and south."
Mr. Tien of Nomura said some of the strongest resistance to change comes not from central but from local authorities. He said Vietnam's prime minister and Communist Party chief had traveled to Haiphong to urge the city to be more helpful to foreigners. This prodding came even after Haiphong donated the land for the industrial zone.
"Dong Nai was able to be more liberal because it was a rural area and the government didn't pay much attention to it," Mr. Tien said. "But Haiphong was always regarded as one of the country's industrial centers, so it was more tightly regulated."
Indeed, Haiphong may eventually realize its potential. The city should benefit from its proximity to China, which is likely to emerge as Vietnam's largest market.
Geographic disparities in growth are not necessarily harmful. In China, for example, the free-wheeling southern coastal provinces provided the kindling for the country's broader growth. In Vietnam, however, the imbalance could eventually damage the south.
The Vietnamese government steers more foreign aid money and tax dollars to northern provinces. It also spends more on public-works projects, as anyone flying from Ho Chi Minh City's somewhat decrepit airport to Hanoi's soon-to-be-expanded one can attest.
While prosperous, Dong Nai lacks decent housing, roads and public transportation. At 4 p.m., when the whistles at its factories blow, the streets are choked with motorcycles and bicycles. The migrant workers sleep four or five to a room in grim, hastily constructed cement blocks.
"The Vietnamese government could wreck Dong Nai by not providing adequate infrastructure around those factories," said Brian Quinn, the country coordinator of the Harvard Institute for International Development. "This is a case of starving the south to feed the north."
 
Vietnam Today
This is part of an occasional series exploring Vietnam, 25 years after the fall of Saigon.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Nomura-Haiphong Industrial Zone on the northeast coast epitomizes what has gone wrong with economic development in Vietnam.; On the outskirts of Ho Chi Minh City, the former Saigon, dozens of foreign companies have set up factories that churn out shoes, circuit boards and cigarettes. Workers at a Nike plant headed home recently. (Photographs by Doan Bao Chau for The New York Times)
 
Map of Vietnam highlighting Ho Chi Minh City.
 
Chart "Dwindling Investment"
Foreign direct investment, which not long ago poured into Vietnam, declined to $1.4 billion in 1999 and is likely to fall further this year.
 
Leading investors in Vietnam* 1988-1999 (in U.S. dollars)
 
Singapore...5.9
 
Taiwan...4.6
 
Hong Kong...3.6
 
Japan...3.3
 
South Korea...3.1
 
France...2.1
 
British Virgin Islands...1.7
 
Russia...1.5
 
United States...1.3
 
United Kingdom...1.2
 
*Represents value of investments approved by the Vietnamese government. Actual money spent is roughly one-third of each amount.
 
(Source: Vietnam Ministry of Planning and Investment and Government Statistics Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: NMR (NYSE) (91%); N33 (SGX) (91%); 8604 (TSE) (91%); FUJ (LSE) (54%); 6702 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (91%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (95%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); HAI PHONG, VIETNAM (91%); 

COMPANY: NOMURA HOLDINGS INC (91%); FUJITSU LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; HAIPHONG (VIETNAM); HO CHI MINH CITY (VIETNAM); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (95%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); HAI PHONG, VIETNAM (91%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; VIETNAM WAR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; FOREIGN AID INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FOOTWEAR (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); TRENDS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (65%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



555 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: The Protest in a Global Village

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Though Paul Krugman (column, April 19) lauds the World Bank, the pre-eminent fact about global capitalism today is the growth of inequality: a few new millionaires but also many new millions crowding into the slums of Sao Paulo, Cairo, Jakarta and Mexico City, driven off their land by bank-financed export agriculture schemes. And while David Frum (Op-Ed, April 19) is right that state-owned-industry socialism is dead, socialized medicine is alive and much healthier in Canada and much of Europe than our insurance-company-run system. 
 Mr. Krugman's "Seattle Man" may not have a complete blueprint for a better society, but the evident changes in emphasis at the World Bank-International Monetary Fund meeting are already a victory that would not have happened without the protests.
 
WILLIAM KESSLER
Seattle, April 19, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; BRAZIL (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; CREDIT; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); TRENDS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (59%); 

PERSON: KESSLER, WILLIAM; KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



556 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 44 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
A chart yesterday illustrating characteristics of families with children below the poverty line in New York City referred incorrectly to the group of families with at least one worker. Those include both full- and part-time workers, not just full-time workers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORRECTION STORIES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILD POVERTY (88%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



557 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
City's Jobless Rate Increased in March

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Unemployment was up in New York City and down slightly in New York State in March compared with February, according to figures released yesterday by the State Labor Department.
The city's unemployment rate was 6.4 percent in March, compared with 6.2 percent in February and 6.9 percent in March of last year. 
 The state's unemployment rate of 4.6 percent was 0.1 percentage point lower than in February. The March 1999 jobless rate was 5.2 percent.
Nationally, unemployment was 4.1 percent in March, the same rate as in February, and 0.1 percentage point lower than in March 1999.
State analysts said 157,200 private-sector jobs were created between March 1999 and March 2000, an increase of 2.3 percent. Statisticians said the 7,124,700 private-sector jobs in New York last month was a record.
The Labor Department said the strongest March-to-March jobs gains were in Dutchess County, on Long Island, in the Utica-Rome area and around Syracuse. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); UTICA, NY, USA (73%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (NYS) NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (NYS) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); UTICA, NY, USA (73%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



558 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Steel Plant to Be Built

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
The nation's second-largest steel manufacturer announced yesterday that it would build a $50 million plant in New York that would employ 300 people.
The manufacturer, Nucor Corporation of Charlotte, N.C., said it would build the facility in Chemung, 37 miles west of Binghamton on the Pennsylvania border. 
 The division makes steel joists and decks used to build floors and ceilings in malls, schools, factories and other one- and two-story buildings.
Construction is expected to start this summer. The opening is planned for next year. Nucor received financial aid from the town of Chemung as well as Chemung County and New York State. The corporation has 20 plants and is the nation's largest producer of steel joists and decks. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NUE (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (94%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (94%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: NUCOR CORP NUCOR CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NUCOR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CHEMUNG (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS IRON & STEEL MILLS (93%); STRUCTURAL METAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2000



559 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: Defending Home Turf From Attack;
Fannie Mae Is Facing Assault By House Panel and Business Rivals

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18

 BODY:
Fannie Mae, the giant company created by the government decades ago to help make mortgages available to home buyers, is no stranger to hardball politics or high-stakes finance, having established itself as a power to be reckoned with both in Washington and on Wall Street.
Shareholder owned but federally chartered, it is an odd hybrid that dominates the business of channeling money between lenders and Wall Street by buying mortgages and packaging them into securities. Its chief executive, Franklin D. Raines, is a former White House budget director whose name has been floated by Vice President Al Gore's presidential campaign as a possibility for the No. 2 spot on the Democratic ticket, and its executives have close ties to both parties. 
 But the company's very size and influence have now put it in the middle of a firestorm. Together with several smaller government-chartered corporations, Fannie Mae could soon supplant the federal government as the benchmark for creditworthiness in the bond market, a possibility that has already set off emotional sparring between the company and the Treasury Department.
Treasury officials are not the only ones raising questions about Fannie Mae's special status. In recent weeks, the company has also been fighting a bitter war of words with a powerful Republican lawmaker while simultaneously fending off a lobbying assault by its biggest and best-heeled business rivals.
On one level, the fight is over whether Fannie Mae and its smaller cousin in the mortgage finance business, Freddie Mac, should continue to enjoy special benefits conferred on them by the government in the name of making home buying more affordable for low- and middle-income people. Those benefits directly or indirectly give Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac an edge in raising money at a lower cost.
Their purely private-sector competitors in the housing finance industry say the situation is unfair. Sensing that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may be politically vulnerable, a coalition of banks, mortgage companies and trade groups has mounted a well-financed and unusually aggressive offensive in Congress seeking to limit the ability of the so-called government-sponsored enterprises, or G.S.E.'s, to use their advantages to expand into related businesses.
The coalition, called FM Watch, includes General Electric's GE Capital, Chase Manhattan, the American International Group, Wells Fargo and many financial services industry trade groups. The members fear that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are intent on using their government-provided advantages to move into businesses like financing mortgages for people with questionable credit histories, selling mortgage insurance and making loans directly to consumers.
"Our goal is to ensure that the G.S.E.'s perform their original mission, which is to provide liquidity in the secondary market, and that they do not compete unfairly in markets that private enterprise is already adequately serving," said W. Mike House, FM Watch's executive director.
Executives at Fannie Mae say they are not getting into any new lines of business but are simply making mortgages available to more people -- exactly what the government intended them to do. They derisively refer to the new group opposing them as "the coalition for higher mortgage costs," and promise to fight back against what they see as a plea from their competitors for protection.
"This is part of what I believe to be the most concerted effort I've seen in 20 years around Washington by a group of really big companies to use the political process to try and make a buck," Mr. Raines said.
But beyond the competitive tussle, there is a far-reaching public policy issue: whether Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have grown so big and deeply entrenched in the nation's financial system that their ill-defined relationship with the federal government poses the risk of a taxpayer bailout if they were to run into financial trouble.
There has been a strong political consensus that the success Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have had in making mortgages available at the lowest possible cost to millions of home buyers has far outweighed any potential risks. Now, though, both the administration and Congress seem intent on at least taking another look at the question.
"The potential benefits that G.S.E.'s bring to a particular market must be balanced, therefore, against potential risks to the financial system and potential effects on market competition," Gary Gensler, the under secretary of the Treasury for financial markets, told a Congressional subcommittee last month. "Reconsideration of this balance is appropriate from time to time and as financial conditions change."
In the financial markets, Mr. Gensler's carefully hedged words were considered a coded suggestion that the government wanted to sever its ties to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The Treasury Department backtracked a few days later, saying that its basic policy toward the companies had not changed.
But in the meantime the entire bond market was roiled, and Timothy Howard, the chief financial officer of Fannie Mae, publicly called Mr. Gensler's testimony "irresponsible," a statement that he later said he regretted.
The sharp reaction in the bond market was in large part a function of forecasts that Fannie Mae and the other such enterprises would within three years have more debt outstanding among investors and financial institutions than the United States Treasury. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are raising money to finance their rapid expansion, while the Treasury is paying down the national debt as the government runs big budget surpluses. If the surpluses continue to materialize as projected, the national debt will be paid off by 2013, meaning there would be virtually no more Treasury bonds.
Making the issue of particular interest to investors is the very real possibility that the debt securities of Fannie Mae and those other enterprises will replace the Treasury bond as the national or even worldwide benchmark for low-risk debt.
Unlike Treasury debt, the debt issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to help finance mortgages is not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States government. But investors have long perceived that the government has made an unwritten commitment to treat Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as too big to fail.
Although the implicit guarantee has not been tested -- and indeed is explicitly contradicted in the offering documents for the debt the companies sell -- it has nonetheless generally allowed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to borrow money at lower interest rates than any entity short of the government.
In paying less to raise money than their purely private-sector competitors in the banking, securities and housing industries, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have long had a built-in cost advantage. Based on that advantage, the companies have been able to hold down mortgage rates for home buyers -- and to enrich their own shareholders and executives.
If Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac take on the benchmark role, it would reinforce the perception among investors that the housing companies are so vital to the financial system that the government could never let them default.
In an interview, Mr. Raines of Fannie Mae suggested that the Treasury Department's expression of interest in reconsidering the benefits and potential risks of government-sponsored enterprises was motivated by a combination of ideological opposition to government support for a company operating in the capital markets and a reluctance to give up the influence it exerts in the markets as the issuer of the benchmark security. (A day later, he called back to say that he had no objection to "the legitimate role of the Treasury in asking questions about large financial institutions and what role they may play in systemic risk.")
Mr. Gensler and other Treasury officials declined to be interviewed.
It is unclear what steps, if any, Congress will pursue. But one concern receiving particular attention is the heavy dependence banks have on debt issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Banks are permitted to make unlimited investments in the debt securities of the enterprises, while banks can hold only limited amounts of debt issues by other companies.
Government-sponsored enterprise debt also is counted as safer than traditional corporate debt by regulators when they assess the financial strength of banks. As a result, many banks have made such debt a big part of their capital base, a situation that has left some regulators and members of Congress speculating about the implications for the financial system if Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were to get into serious financial trouble.
Many of the issues are being raised in hearings by Representative Richard H. Baker, Republican of Louisiana and chairman of the House Banking subcommittee that oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
At a Banking Committee hearing earlier this month, Mr. Baker said he was concerned about the risks that government-sponsored enterprises would pose to the financial system in an economic downturn, and he compared the companies to Long-Term Capital Management, the giant hedge fund that rocked world markets when it nearly failed in 1998.
Even as he stressed that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were healthy and profitable, Mr. Baker said that to ignore "the potential impact of a misstep" by one or both of the companies "is to flirt with a potential disaster."
Should the government-sponsored housing companies continue to grow unchecked in size and influence, Mr. Baker told the hearing, the government might ultimately find itself on the hook for a bailout that would be financed out of "your constituent's wallet."
Fannie Mae quickly responded that the comparison to a high-risk hedge fund was "unfounded," and that the company exceeds all regulatory standards for financial strength.
Invoking the defense that his company has used successfully for years, David Jeffers, a spokesman for Fannie Mae, said that a proposal by Mr. Baker to tighten regulation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac "is going nowhere because it is antihousing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Richard H. Baker, above, Republican of Louisiana, is in a bitter war of words with Fannie Mae over its role and potential financial risks. Franklin D. Raines, left, is the chief executive of the government-sponsored enterprise. (Travis Spradling/The Baton Rouge Advocate); (Justin Lane for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Credit Gap"
With the government planning to pay down the federal debt, the 30-year Treasury bond no longer tracks as closely with other debt instruments like those issued by Freddie Mac, raising questions about its benchmark role.
 
Graph compares the 30-year Freddie Mac participation certificate and the 30-year treasury bond since 1997.
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 2887 TVA CUSTOMER PROTECTION ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (80%); GEC (LSE) (80%); GE (SWX) (80%); GE (NYSE) (80%); AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP; FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN; FM WATCH (ORGN) FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (80%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP; FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN; FM WATCH (ORGN) TREASURY DEPARTMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS BUDGETS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); NEW ISSUES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BAKER, RICHARD H (REPR); RAINES, FRANKLIN D FRANK RAINES (89%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



560 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Seeking to Safeguard California Mountains by Way of Congress

BYLINE: By BARBARA WHITAKER 

DATELINE: PALM SPRINGS, Calif.

 BODY:
Postcards from this desert resort town often feature a golfer in full swing on a lush course, driving toward a majestic mountain range in the distance.
But if the two make picturesque partners, federal officials are weighing how best to secure the future of the pristine mountainous backdrop as the demands of development and tourism increasingly encroach on the Santa Rosa and San Jacinto Mountains. 
 President Clinton has put the mountains on the short list of areas that he would consider designating as national monuments, a move that would make them off limits for any purposes that would change their character.
The possibility alarms some landowners worried about property rights, and developers concerned that it would have an impact on projects around the base of the mountains, many of which command top dollar.
But in an effort to protect local interests as well as the mountains, Representative Mary Bono, Republican of California, has introduced a bill that would confer monument status through Congress instead.
The bill, now in the subcommittee on national parks and public lands, tries to address local concerns by assuring, for example, that no protective perimeters with restrictions on use would be created around the monument, and that management of the monument would not change as the federal government developed a comprehensive plan for the area.
"We've been very encouraged," Molly McUsic, a counselor to Bruce Babbitt, secretary of the Interior, said of the Congressional effort.
Officials hope the legislation will be more palatable than a presidential declaration. Private landowners hold about 55,000 acres within the 272,000 acres in the proposed monument area, and developers, the Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians and state and local officials all have stakes to protect. The monument designation directly applies only to federal lands, about 150,000 acres.
"We're beginning at the grass roots rather than the administration coming in and saying we know what's right for you," said Rusty Payne, a spokesman for Ms. Bono. "Monument is a dirty word sometimes with Western Republicans."
On April 15, President Clinton officially designated 328,000 acres in California as a national monument to protect sequoias. It was the fifth time that Mr. Clinton had created a monument using the Antiquities Act of 1906, which allows a president to change the status of federal lands that have scientific, historical or architectural significance. He has also expanded an existing monument.
President Clinton has now protected more land in the lower 48 states using the act than any other president. All the designations have been in the West. But some lawmakers and local people have accused the president of misusing the act, which they say was intended to set aside much smaller areas, and they see his actions as heavy-handed and detrimental to local interests.
Although the steepness of the Santa Rosa and San Jacinto Mountains makes them nearly impossible to develop in many areas, development now reaches right up to the toe in several areas and extends into the mountains in some places. Pressure to build in the area is expected to increase as the Coachella Valley, which includes the desert towns of the region, grows to an estimated 475,000 residents from about 317,000 in the next 20 years.
The mountains are used in a variety of ways, including cattle grazing, sightseeing and recreation. They are also home to endangered bighorn sheep.
Private property owners are said to be evenly divided over the designation.
"The people who are against the monument or are worried about it are concerned about intrusion on property rights," said Ruth Watling, who is chairwoman of the Pinyon Community Council, an advisory group for the property owners.
Those supporting it are worried about intrusion from the increasing number of day-trippers and tourists who visit for hiking, hunting, horseback riding or off-road vehicle use.
The habitat in the area is quite fragile. Ms. Watling noted that it dated back as far as 12,000 years, when it was tall pines. Now it is home to pinyons and junipers, which will not regenerate themselves.
"It's really rare to see a seedling pine," she said. "Kind of horrifying and intriguing to watch."
Although much of the land is already held by state and federal governments, traditionally there has been little financing for management and conservation. Bill Havert, executive director of the Coachella Valley Mountains Conservancy, which has pushed for monument status, said such a designation would not only raise the mountains' profile, but would help to secure increased federal financing to buy private land in the area.
"We're not ultimately looking for the national monument designation to protect all lands from development," Mr. Havert said. "We're looking for the designation to at least maintain, if not enhance, Congress's willingness to fund acquisitions from willing sellers."
But private landowners and others who have interests at stake say they do not believe there is any need for the designation. Instead, they see it as a federal land grab, which will result in access restrictions and loss of property tax revenue.
"We already have protective measures," said Larry Paul, president of the Mountain Coalition, which represents private interests opposed to the designation.
"I'm all for protecting the environment," Mr. Paul said, "but we have everything to lose, and I don't see anything to gain. All that's going to happen is the limiting of uses we already enjoy."
Addressing such concerns was the purpose of Ms. Bono's bill, said Mr. Payne, her spokesman.
"Economic development is very important," he said, "but so is reasonable land management and environmental policy that preserves and protects. We are running out of land in America and Southern California, and we are leaving nothing behind for future generations."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Mary Bono of California has introduced a bill that would designate the Santa Rosa Mountains, a backdrop for The Reserve, a private golf resort, and the San Jacinto Mountains as a national monument. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA ROSA MOUNTAINS; SAN JACINTO MOUNTAINS; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; LAW AND LEGISLATION MOUNTAINS (91%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); GOLF (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PROPERTY LAW (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); 

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA; BONO, MARY (REPR) BILL CLINTON (90%); MARY BONO MACK (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



561 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: George Moore, 95, Ex-Banker Who Led Metropolitan Opera

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
George S. Moore, a banker who led the overseas expansion of what became Citibank and steered the Metropolitan Opera through turbulent financial times, died yesterday at his home in Sotograde, Spain. He was 95.
Mr. Moore, who eventually rose to become chairman of First National City Bank of New York (now known as Citibank) was born on April 1, 1905, in Hannibal, Mo., to a family of moderate circumstances. His father was a claims inspector for the Burlington & Quincy Railroad. 
 From early on he established himself as an energetic young man. During summers in St. Louis, were he grew up, Mr. Moore earned extra money selling honey and delivering orders for a delicatessen.
Later, he helped put himself through Yale by booking tours to Europe and tickets to Broadway shows for classmates.
After joining the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company in 1927, which eventually merged with First National City, Mr. Moore rose swiftly to positions of power.
Colleagues described him as a determined salesman who thought that more than five hours of sleep a night was a waste.
Mr. Moore is credited with moving aggressively to expand the bank's reach in whatever department he ran. As head of the bank's domestic division in 1957, Mr. Moore pushed for the bank's entry into real estate lending and expanded consumer loans.
Later as the head of First National City's overseas division, he set up new branches in countries across Europe and Latin America. The Latin American branches, while successful during his tenure, later caused the bank headaches as economies in the region collapsed.
But the legacy that Mr. Moore was most proud of, according to his son, George Moore of New Canaan, Conn., was transforming the caliber of the institution's workers.
When Mr. Moore joined banking, it was still a closed, conservative society staffed largely by the scions of old-line moneyed families like the Stillmans and the Rockefellers. Mr. Moore aimed to replace what he perceived to be indolent family heirs with motivated graduates of business schools.
The claims inspector's son took some pride in being a tough guy who could fire incompetent underlings.
"He was fanatical about finding top talent and inventorying people with high I.Q.'s," said Phillip L. Zweig, who interviewed Mr. Moore at length for a book on Walter B. Wriston, Mr. Moore's hand-picked Citibank successor. "But he was lightening in a bottle and did not suffer fools lightly."
Mr. Moore became president of the Metropolitan Opera Association in 1967. It was a troubled financial time in the opera's history, as the recent move to its Lincoln Center home had emptied the coffers.
Mr. Moore was determined to run the opera like a business and insisted that creative operations meet budgets. Under his tenure, the opera raised the price of tickets several times and postponed opening the season to trim costs. In 1973, the Met even canceled a scheduled production of "Don Giovanni" as well as free summer concerts that were to be held in Central Park.
Mr. Moore retired from First National City in 1970, but he continued to work long energetic days until he was almost 90.
Among his responsibilities was being the sole trustee for the Onassis family interests in the United States and being a financial consultant to numerous United States and foreign corporations.
He also kept a full social and philanthropic calendar. In his autobiography "The Banker's Life," (W. W. Norton & Company, 1986), he included among his friends Senator Jacob K. Javits, opera singer Maria Callas and the auto-fortune heir Henry Ford II.
In addition to his son by his first marriage, Mr. Moore is survived by his second wife, Charon C. Moore; their three children, daughters Christina Sendagorta and Maria Pia and a son, Steven C. Moore, all of Madrid; five grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: George S. Moore (Associated Press 1972)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (92%); SPAIN (91%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); METROPOLITAN OPERA ASSOCIATION (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN OPERA ASSOCIATION (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (92%); SPAIN (91%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (90%); OPERA (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); FAMILY (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); TRAVEL AGENTS (54%); CONSERVATISM (50%); 

PERSON: MOORE, GEORGE S; KAUFMAN, LESLIE GEORGE S MOORE (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



562 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Insurer Fighting Microsoft Over Claims

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21

 BODY:
Microsoft's primary insurer wants to bar the company from claiming coverage for the cost of defending a barrage of private antitrust lawsuits.
In a suit filed last month in Federal District Court in Washington, Zurich American Insurance, a unit of Zurich Allied of Switzerland, asked a judge to declare that its general liability policy does not cover the legal expenses caused by Microsoft's antitrust woes. 
 Microsoft already has started submitting insurance claims for the cost of defending about 140 private suits. The suits seek to take advantage of a federal judge's ruling in the government's antitrust case that Microsoft illegally protected its Windows computer operating system monopoly from competition.
"Microsoft is trying to shift the economic consequences of its allegedly anticompetitive conduct onto its liability insurers," said Zurich American's lawyer, Thomas W. Brunner. He added that the antitrust claims were far removed from the intended coverage under the policy.
With high-priced law firms like Sullivan & Cromwell and Sidley & Austin representing Microsoft, the company's legal bills could easily reach tens of millions of dollars. And if the policy applies, Zurich American might also have to pay up to $4 million to cover any judgments against Microsoft, Mr. Brunner said.
Microsoft said its legal expenses fell under its policy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: ZURICH AMERICAN INSURANCE; MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MICROSOFT CORP (90%); SIDLEY AUSTIN LLP (84%); SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (84%); ZURICH AMERICAN INSURANCE CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZURICH AMERICAN INSURANCE; MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; STATES (US); ATTORNEYS GENERAL; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; SUITS AND LITIGATION ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (96%); LITIGATION (92%); INSURANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (88%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (88%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (79%); LAWYERS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); GENERAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); JUDGES (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); 

PERSON: THOMAS W BRUNNER (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



563 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Lawyer Auction in an Auction Suit

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL 

 BODY:
For two months the federal judge presiding over mountains of litigation against the auction giants Sotheby's and Christie's knew that he faced a thorny problem: how to select the lawyers from at least 25 firms across the country to lead the growing class-action suit charging the two houses with price-fixing.
Yesterday he came up with an answer. Hold an auction. 
 Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of Federal District Court in Manhattan issued a court order yesterday in which he invited all the lawyers representing the approximately 40 plaintiffs so far to submit secret bids by May 12 to determine who will manage the plaintiff's case, a prize that could be worth millions. The judge appointed an interim team of six lead lawyers on Feb. 2.
The bids are to list a maximum amount of recovered money that the lawyers would be willing to see go entirely to the plaintiffs. For any recovery beyond that, the lawyers are to list a fee that they would take in full. If the recovery exceeds the sum of both of these, the lawyers would get one-quarter of the additional amount with the rest going to their clients.
Thus, experts said, the lawyers have an incentive to offer a maximum financial recovery to their clients at a minimal legal fee. If the recovery is exceptionally large, the lawyers would make much more.
The judge's innovation, experts said, was the formula that increases legal fees as the recovery increases.
They said that the plan relied on the kind of free-market competition that Sotheby's and Christie's are accused of subverting by colluding on fees and commissions charged to buyers and sellers since 1993. The houses are also being investigated by Federal antitrust prosecutors.
The judge did not promise to select the low bidder but "which bidder is likely best to serve the interests of any class that may be certified, taking into account the economic terms of bids as well as qualifications."
Such bargaining to limit lawyers fees in class-action suits has occurred in several previous cases, but Judge Kaplan wrote that his bidding process "never has been used as far as the court is aware."
He invited comments from the interim lead lawyers, who are likely to argue against changing lawyers now, and even from outsiders, and he said that if the plan drew significant opposition he might scrap it.
But Andrew K. Niebler, a Washington lawyer whom the judge cited as an expert on lead counsel auctions, applauded the new formula. "This is really an important advance for better aligning the interests of the class members and plaintiffs' class counsel," he said in an interview.
The formula also won high marks from at least one plaintiff's lawyer who had been prepared to drop out of the case, feeling, as he said, that "other guys carved it up."
Asked late yesterday if he had heard of the order, that lawyer, Stephen Susman of Houston, said, "No, but I love it."
"This is the way judges ought to do it," he said. "Pick the lawyers who offer the most reasonable deal to the class." Now, he said, "we'll definitely be back in."
The six interim lead lawyers have not responded to calls. They are Frederick P. Furth, Stanley M. Grossman, Michael D. Hausfeld, Robert N. Kaplan, Christopher Lovell and Robert A. Skirnick.
In another decision yesterday, the judge rejected Christie's contention that there was no basis for the lawsuit and commented, "Certainly the interim lead counsel and their clients are capable of pursuing the litigation in an appropriate manner."
One effect of the formula, the experts said, is to reduce the attractiveness to the plaintiffs' lawyers of a quick settlement, for which they might ordinarily do little work but get a big fee.
There are no set fees in class-action cases. Judges commonly award lawyers 10 to 30 percent, but the lawyers do not know the amount going in, creating uncertainties for lawyers and clients alike.
In class-action suits, where many plaintiffs sue collectively, lawyers often designate the lead members themselves and the judge approves them. Lead counsels shoulder the bulk of the work and also commonly reap the largest fees.
Judge Kaplan assured the lawyers that if he decided not to go ahead with his bidding formula, he would not reveal the bids. He also ordered them not to discuss their positions among themselves or try to rig their bids. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S; CHRISTIE'S CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S; CHRISTIE'S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SUITS AND LITIGATION; AUCTIONS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS LAWYERS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); JUDGES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); CARTELS (76%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: BLUMENTHAL, RALPH; KAPLAN, LEWIS A (JUDGE) ROBERT N KAPLAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



564 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: White House Aides Criticize Republican Drug Proposal

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21

 BODY:
The White House has sharply criticized the House Republican proposal for Medicare coverage of prescription drugs, saying it "seems like a Swiss cheese plan with more holes than substance."
President Clinton's economic policy adviser, Gene Sperling, and his health policy coordinator, Chris Jennings, said on Thursday that they were frustrated by the lack of specifics in the Republican plan and disliked the details that they did know. 
 But White House officials insisted that they wanted to work with Republicans in Congress to pass legislation adding prescription drug benefits to Medicare, the health insurance program for 39 million people who are elderly or disabled.
The House Republican plan, outlined last week, would use private insurance subsidized by the government to help pay prescription drug costs for people treated outside hospitals.
Under Mr. Clinton's proposal, in contrast, drug coverage would become a standard part of the Medicare benefits package, available to anyone willing to pay an extra premium, and the government would bear most of the financial risk.
At a White House briefing on Thursday and in interviews today, White House officials appeared to be sending two messages.
First, they said, the House Republican plan is flawed. Second, they still want to work out a compromise on the issue, which will figure prominently in the presidential campaign and in many Congressional races this year.
When asked to describe their strategy in passing the legislation, Mr. Sperling and Mr. Jennings said they had pinned their hopes on the Senate Finance Committee, where members of the two parties have a history of working together. The committee has held several hearings on Mr. Clinton's plan and on drug benefits in general.
Under the Republican plan, Mr. Jennings said, there is no guarantee that private insurers will offer affordable drug coverage in all parts of the country.
"We don't know what provision of the proposal assures that all, most or even any Medicare beneficiaries will have access to the new drug benefit," Mr. Jennings said.
The House Republicans are fleshing out their proposal, drafting legislation based on cost estimates they had received from the Congressional Budget Office.
John P. Feehery, a spokesman for J. Dennis Hastert, the speaker of the House, said: "White House officials are shooting in the dark. They want to turn this into a political issue. If they would try to work with us instead of just shooting at us, we might be able to get something done."
Donna E. Shalala, the secretary of health and human services, said, "The silver lining of the Republicans' prescription drug plan is that they finally came up with one, though it's two pages."
In a similar vein, Mr. Sperling said, "What we have now from the Republicans is a two-page document which has more questions than answers, and to us, it still seems like a Swiss cheese plan with more holes than substance."
The administration also said the financial outlook for Medicare was brighter than previously thought.
Medicare's hospital insurance trust fund will be solvent until 2025, two years later than previously projected, Dr. Shalala said. A report issued on March 30 by trustees of the Medicare program said the trust fund would be exhausted in 2023.
The two-year difference can be explained by a computer programming error, officials said. Because of the error, the government underestimated the interest that would be earned for the trust fund. The assets of the trust fund, beyond the amounts needed to pay benefits and other expenses, are invested in special government securities.
Richard S. Foster, chief actuary of the Medicare program, said the amount of the underestimate, $2.1 billion this year, would increase gradually to $20 billion a year by 2015.
Many liberal Democrats have questioned the sincerity of House Republicans, suggesting that they are drafting a prescription drug plan to provide political cover in this fall's elections.
But Mr. Sperling said he would not challenge the Republicans' motives.
"The best thing for us right now is not to try to read their minds, or read their motivations," Mr. Sperling said, "but, for the good of the country, to take seriously any suggestion someone makes that they are sincere and trying to work together with us."
The best way to respond to the Republicans, he said, is "by giving them the benefit of the doubt and taking them at their word that they want to work together."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gene Sperling sees a chance for cooperation on prescription drugs. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MEDICARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH INSURANCE MEDICARE (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INSURANCE (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



565 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: The Earth Day Challenge

 BODY:
Today, on the 30th anniversary of the first Earth Day, there is much to celebrate and much to remind us of the unfinished business of protecting the planet. While the job of cleaning the water, air and land continues, the world must begin tackling the less visible threat of global warming, an issue largely unknown 30 years ago. This new threat is less immediate and less easily solved, and therefore will require an even stronger commitment in the years ahead. This is essentially the message of the organizers of Earth Day 2000.
In 1970, some American rivers were so polluted with chemicals that they were fire hazards. Big cities were choked in smog, toxic wastes leached freely into the land, and bird and fish species were disappearing. In a generation's time, with the creation of the National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Endangered Species Act and the Environmental Protection Agency, a great deal has been achieved to reverse decades of environmental degradation. 
 This shift was propelled by citizen activists and a handful of political leaders who first gave voice to a broadening ethic that made protecting the environment a political as well as moral obligation.
The same public passion and political will must now be summoned to confront the global greenhouse effect. Congress has given little attention to this issue. For that reason, the Earth Day organizers have done a public service by making global warming a focus of this year's program.
Unlike polluted air and contaminated water, global warming is not a local problem that can be seen or felt. But its impact on every region on earth could be devastating. Most scientists agree that the earth's climate is warming, due at least partly to the accumulation of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide that trap the sun's energy. Although the effect may be gradual, the consequences could be catastrophic, with increased floods and droughts, rising sea levels and destruction of ecosystems caused by climate change.
In 1997 more than 150 nations, including the United States, signed the Kyoto Protocol to limit the amount of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere through the burning of fossil fuels. The agreement calls for industrialized nations to cut their emissions by 2010. But few nations have moved to carry out the agreement. The United States is the largest greenhouse gas emitter, but the Senate is opposed to ratification of the Kyoto agreement and the policies needed to carry it out.
Curbing these gases requires intensive energy conservation and the promotion of cleaner energy sources such as solar and wind power. The political and economic hurdles are substantial, both in this country and abroad. They can be overcome if the public is educated about the importance of this issue. The 30-year history of the Earth Day movement shows that when people are awakened to an environmental crisis, they will ultimately demand change in the way we live. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: EARTH (93%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EARTH (93%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; EDITORIALS; EARTH DAY US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EARTH DAY (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); LAND DEGRADATION (77%); DROUGHT (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); SMOG (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); AIR POLLUTION (77%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (77%); ETHICS (76%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (75%); SOLAR ENERGY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BIOLOGY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (70%); RIVERS (70%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (70%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (70%); FISHES (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%); WIND ENERGY (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (67%); WATER QUALITY (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



566 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: Adding Arias to the Three R's;
Brooklyn School Uses Opera to Stimulate Young Minds

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
Four fifth-grade girls from Public School 314 escaped class one recent afternoon in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, not to buy sweets at the corner bodega, or to swap secrets over blush in the bathroom, but to slip into a music room to work on their opera, a three-act (six-page) work involving a popular girl, a class clown and a meteorite blazing toward Earth.
By now, the four girls, who have been learning about "Tosca" and "Aida" since kindergarten and attending performances at the Metropolitan Opera since third grade, can bat around opera terms like aficionados. So as a group of second graders sang slightly discordant scales in the back of the music room -- which housed computers nicknamed Verdi, Rossini and Puccini -- 10-year-old Kristina Maisonet buoyantly described her original work, using an obscure term unfamiliar to even many opera lovers. 
 "This is really an opera seria, not an opera," Kristina said, explaining that an opera seria is chock-full of arias and short on recitative, or sung dialogue.
Neither Kristina nor many of her classmates come from homes where parents and grandparents listen to opera as daily background music. More than three-quarters of the 1,918 students at P.S. 314, also known as the Luis Munoz Marin Elementary School, are Latin American and Caribbean, and the second largest ethnic group in the school is Chinese.
But in 1992, Vincent Grippo, the superintendent of Community School District 20, started weaving opera into the fabric of the school, inspired by a teacher who wanted to shape her classes around an opera motif. And he says it has set off a remarkable transformation.
In 1989, the state education commissioner included P.S. 314 on a list of the 43 most academically troubled public schools in the state. While it is still not a high-ranking school, P.S. 314 finished 408th out of the city's 677 public elementary schools in reading achievement for 1999 and has escaped the list of failing schools.
"One of my expressions is, 'If it's good enough for the rich, why don't we try it on the poor?' " Mr. Grippo said. "It's art for art's sake, but beyond that, it creates self-esteem and a full human being. One of the reasons it works is because we're taking poor immigrant children and exposing them to a whole world of creativity and beauty."
On any given day, a group of kindergartners might be practicing screechy Suzuki violin; second graders might be rehearsing "Mikey's Dream," a 25-minute opera that they wrote and produced; a group of fourth graders might be working on an interactive CD-ROM about "The Queen of Spades," responding to a performance they had just seen at the Met.
The Metropolitan Opera Guild says the school employs the only full-time opera teacher in the New York City school system. The teacher, Mary Jo Lassen, tells students about the history of the form, helps them read and study Italian and French librettos with the help of translations, and has them memorize and sing transliterated arias. In the fifth grade, students can join an opera club to attend early rehearsals at the Met with Ms. Lassen.
They meet stars like Placido Domingo, write their own works in English and sometimes translate them and perform them in other languages. (Boys seem just as interested as girls, said Ms. Lassen, noting that last year most students in the opera club were boys.) Earlier this year, the mezzo-soprano Frederica von Stade visited the school.
The children seem enchanted by the broad characters, the music and the mythic conflicts in opera, and seem unaware of how unusual their knowledge is.
"My sister's friends never went to an opera," Kristina said, slightly aghast. "When I was in third grade, the first time I went to the Met I thought I would get lost because it's so huge. Now we've met everybody. We pretty much know all the ushers."
In a hushed voice, her friend, Lauren Rius, 10, confessed to an apparent sin: "Before Ms. Lassen taught us, I had never even heard of Placido Domingo."
P.S. 314 still has its troubles. Measured against other public elementary schools in New York with students who have similar economic and social backgrounds, P.S. 314 performs about average on English tests, according to the most recent assessment by the New York City Board of Education. Last year, 41.2 percent of the students were reading at or above grade level. Still, Mr. Grippo said children studying the performing arts benefit in ways that cannot be measured on standardized tests.
Although students from 207 city schools sometimes attend opera through the Metropolitan Opera Guild, no other public school in New York offers as comprehensive an opera program as P.S. 314, said David A. Dik, director of education for the guild, the nonprofit educational arm of the Metropolitan Opera Association.
The program is financed through the Annenberg Foundation and a city arts fund called Project Arts. Elements of P.S. 314's program have been copied in about 20 of the district's 30 schools, although few have the same kind of financial support, Teachers at P.S. 314 say that its program improves their students' academic drive and helps them learn a wide range of basic skills.
"Each child in the class got a script, each child got to read with the other children, and along with their lines, they learned plot and structure," said Regina M. Gangi, a teacher whose second graders recently wrote and performed a 25-minute opera. "The other kids came along with math by building the sets, doing the electrical work, and that all has to do a lot with figuring out equations. It's a different way of having the children open up their minds."
By writing their own works in the music room (after school, during lunch break, and occasionally during class), the students seem to have gained insights into opera's appeal.
"You have to make it very juicy," Kristina said.
Her friend, Lauren, added, "You have to have a big climax, not something that happens every day."
The girls giddily narrated the plot of their work, "Friends to the End," to a visitor, their eyes beaming, voices overlapping.
"There's a popular girl and a boy who's like the class clown, and he becomes more popular than she is and so she gets jealous," Kristina said.
Amanda Colon, 11, continued. "So she shoves pills in his mouth and -- she doesn't want to kill him; she just wants to hurt him."
Lauren broke in, "There's a meteorite coming and the world is going to end, but then it's just a little rock."
But Tiffany Cortes, 10, with a coy smile, insisted that the ending was still under discussion.
Lauren conceded, "It's supposed to be a comedy, but we might make the world end anyway." Her eyes darted toward Ms. Lassen for confirmation.
Ms. Lassen is the force behind P.S. 314's devotion to opera. Twenty-two years ago, when she was a fifth-grade teacher and the school's music program was faltering because of budget cuts, she took a teacher training class from the Metropolitan Opera Guild. Later, she tried to introduce her class to "Rigoletto."
"I had one libretto and an audio tape of an opera performance," she recalled. "I read it out loud to the students. How boring!"
Ms. Lassen decided to give her students a more active role in their opera lessons, and eight years ago she requested permission to devote her attention to teaching opera to students in all grades.
Christina C. Cortes, the interim vice principal of P.S. 314, said that when she first saw Ms. Lassen's students sewing period costumes for a show, she was instantly intrigued.
"She was very focused on the elements of story, on narrative, setting, time, problem solving, solutions," Ms. Cortes said. "So it was a direct carry-over to their developmental learning in reading."
This year, second-grade students were asked to write and produce their own opera, which eventually became "Mikey's Dream." Last fall, two second-grade teachers, Mrs. Gangi and Laura Garzaniti, attended half a dozen daylong workshops arranged by the opera guild. Their students auditioned for various roles and responsibilities for "Mikey's Dream," from acting and writing to set design and public relations work.
At the end of March, members of the newly formed Star Opera Company, a group of about three dozen seven- and eight-year olds, performed "Mikey's Dream" four times, once for their parents and three times for a rapt audience of peers, many of whom sang along from their seats.
The work is about a little boy who cannot go out to play because his room is a mess and he has not finished his homework.
"I wish I had a servant," laments the protagonist, Mikey, played by Juan Carlos Martinez, 7. "I have one dollar. Maybe I can buy a servant."
He falls asleep and has a nightmare in which all his friends are fighting; but when he awakes, they are in his room, offering to help him clean up.
In his final aria, Mikey sings, "I am so lucky I have good friends."
During the third performance, one of five large set pieces started to crack, and the students, alone backstage between scenes, had to figure out what to do. One boy from Mrs. Gangi's class decided to stand behind the piece and hold it up throughout the scene, saving the show.
"It's really weird to think of a second grader figuring out that if he stood there behind it no one would see him," Mrs. Gangi said. The boy had been very unmotivated, she said. "He never used to have his homework done. But since this, he's been coming in and doing his work."
During a post-production discussion, some students even showed precocious signs of the kind of self-possession that sets the opera greats apart. Reflecting on her achievement, Melinda Lopez, 8, who played the leading female role, Ashley, dabbed her brashly colored eyelids like a true diva.
"The best thing is when you grow up, you can remember about this," she said. "And you can be a singer and you won't be shy."
 
Mikey's Aria
 
 CHORUS
 My life is not fair.
 I can't go out and play.
 I have to do my homework.
 I am stuck in my room all day.
 VERSES
 I have to clean my room.
 It's such a disgusting mess.
 My clothes are thrown all
 over the place.
 Where do I begin?
 My science project is due tomorrow.
 I haven't even read the book.
 If I don't finish my homework,
 My teacher will hang me like a hook.
 In my life I have so many problems
 I don't know what to do.
 I need lots of help,
 Maybe a friend or two.
 
 This aria, from Mikey's Dream," was written by Araceli Gomez, Stephanie Romo, Paola Contreras and Emmanuel Castillo. The music was composed by Angel Berrios, Mohammed Sakhl and Malik Jones.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Second graders at Public School 314 in Brooklyn perform "Mikey's Dream," an opera that students wrote and produced.; Jenny Leung prepares Melinda Lopez for her taste of the diva life. (pg. B1); Juan Carlos Martinez is only 7, but he is already an opera star as the lead in "Mikey's Dream," an epic tale of passion and heroic sacrifice. Well, it's actually about a boy who can't go out to play because his room is a mess. (Photographs by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (69%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ANNENBERG FOUNDATION METROPOLITAN OPERA ASSOCIATION (78%); NEW YORK CITY BOARD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANNENBERG FOUNDATION METROPOLITAN OPERA ASSOCIATION (78%); NEW YORK CITY BOARD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (69%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (54%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; OPERA OPERA (92%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); MUSIC (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); ETHNICITY (64%); ETHNIC GROUPS (64%); RANKINGS (64%); 

PERSON: SIEGAL, NINA; GRIPPO, VINCENT KRISTINA MAISONET (69%); MARY JO LASSEN (68%); VINCENT GRIPPO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



567 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Hey, Hey, Hey, Save My Caffe Latte!

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
After finding a community among anarchist squatters on the Lower East Side, Sascha Scatter decided to forgo college and became obsessed with riding freight trains. . . . His zines combine adventure-travel tales with thoughtful observations about the global economy. In Seattle he was tear-gassed seven times. His mission in D.C.: Guerrilla gardening -- activists planted trees, vegetables, and flowers on abandoned lots and lawns. His point: self-sufficiency. As Scatter sees it, there's plenty of food -- it just doesn't get to the people who need it.
-- From a Village Voice profile of heroic young New Yorkers at this week's economic protests in Washington. 
 More excerpts from a book that will not be written by Tom Brokaw, "The Most Excellent Generation":
As Justin prepared to ship out to Washington, resting in his family's apartment on the Upper West Side, he couldn't shake the ghosts of Seattle. It was always the same flashback: the shattering window at Starbucks, the cops in Darth Vader helmets, the last glimpse of Alex being led away in handcuffs. Why Alex and not him? Why hadn't he saved his buddy?
He sought comfort from his grandfather. "Survivor guilt?" the old man said. "Over a $50 summons? If you'd been with me on the beach in Normandy I could understand, but . . ."
His father was no help either. Dad just yapped about his protests at Columbia against some war. "My friends were getting shot up in rice paddies," Dad said. "What exactly are you protesting?"
"The Indonesian sweatshop that made your shirt," Justin said, but it was useless to explain globalization. They'd never faced such a devious enemy. It could sneak up on you anywhere -- in your sneakers, on your khakis, in your nose ring.
Was it safe to enter a chat room on economic self-sufficiency using a Japanese laptop made in Mexico? Had Alex's Nokia cell phone, like, betrayed him for marching against free trade? Should Justin have lent him the Motorola? The ghosts raged on.
Samantha hated the house in East Hampton, but there was no better pre-protest training camp for a guerrilla gardener. Her parents' housekeeper, Consuela, helped her plant the organic maize and jicama. Samantha tried explaining to Consuela, who had grown up on a farm outside Caracas, the concept of "sustainable agriculture."
"No chemicales," Samantha said. "No factoria farms. Todo naturale. No supermarket plastico."
"No supermarket?" Consuela asked.
"We fight for the farm de familia," Samantha said.
Consuela looked at her warily. "The farm of my family? You want to go there? I prefer the supermarket."
When the protests began in Washington, Ted's elite Whatever Unit was still struggling with the marchers' greatest challenge: inventing a chant that rhymed with "International Monetary Fund." It was even tougher than the World Trade Organization in Seattle. Ted had needed only 28 hours to come up with "Hell no, W.T.O.! We don't want your globe B.O." But I.M.F? But after 60 sleepless hours their nerves were as frayed as the pages of their rhyming dictionaries. The best they'd come up with was "I.M.F.! You are deaf!"
Then, as a group of marchers passed in front of a Gap and a giant chain drugstore, it suddenly came to Ted. "Flanking maneuver!" he screamed, and phoned his inspiration to squadron leaders. Within seconds the streets erupted: "One, two, three, four! We don't want your discount store! Full price! Full price! We all pay more!" Ted held his breath for what seemed an eternity. Then the chant started again. The line had held! Ted wept.
Justin looked up in disbelief. Today was his hope for redemption, but what was falling from the sky? Water! Squadron leaders tried a new chant -- "Rain, rain, go away" -- but their troops were fleeing. Samantha was almost trampled by a guerrilla gardener rushing to make his freight train.
"This is a suicide mission without Gore-Tex," Justin shouted. Alex wanted to press on, but Justin and Samantha dragged him into cover inside a Starbucks. Alex refused to accept defeat quietly. "The world is counting on our generation," he said, reaching into his day pack for a brick.
"Hello! Don't break the window until the rain stops," Samantha implored.
"At least let me finish my latte," Justin said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (54%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (54%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (54%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (54%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); TRAINS (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); AGRICULTURE (76%); RIOTS (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN SASCHA SCATTER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



568 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC PLAN;
Gore's Campaign, Confident on the Issues, Still Struggles With His Image

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: ROMULUS, Mich., April 21

 BODY:
George W. Bush may be portraying himself as an unconventional Republican, but Al Gore plans to portray him as really unconventional.
Even as Governor Bush tries to move to the political center, the vice president is trying to define him as extreme. It is all part of a newly emerging strategy for Mr. Gore as he moves into what his advisers call the "compare and contrast" phase of the presidential campaign: compare his proposals with Mr. Bush's and then "contrast" them. 
 Translation: Mr. Gore rips his rival's proposals to shreds and presents his own as reasonable alternatives.
At the same time, Mr. Gore has his own careful balancing act to perform. While hammering Mr. Bush on policy matters, he is still struggling to overcome a problem that has dogged him since early in the campaign: how to demonstrate that he has a warm and human side, a passion for the presidency and ideals that are not tossed by political winds.
The effort to warm up his image is guiding much of the Gore campaign's planning in this stretched-out period until the party conventions this summer. Indeed, that effort is why he will be spending full days in schools, staying overnight with families and visiting them in their workplaces (yes, in earth-tone casual attire). The idea is to show him to be just an ordinary person who is both engaged and engaging.
Not that the issues, and the vice president's effort to depict Mr. Bush's positions as extreme, will be by any means ignored. The other day, addressing gun control, Mr. Gore said the governor's signing legislation allowing Texans to carry firearms into churches demonstrated how beholden he was to the National Rifle Association.
Today, at a news conference here in Michigan, the issue was the environment. Mr. Gore said that "Governor Bush seems to have the smug assumption that he can get away with calling himself an environmentalist," when Texas is "the worst-polluted state in the country."
Mr. Gore plans additional speeches in the next couple of weeks focusing on other differences with Mr. Bush, starting with the governor's proposal for a big tax cut, what the vice president calls a "risky tax scheme." That theme will be hammered relentlessly by the Gore campaign till November.
"People haven't noticed it yet," said Bob Shrum, a top Gore adviser, "but I assure you, they will: that George W. Bush doesn't have any money to pay for his tax cut or the programs he's proposing. By giving in to the right wing on the tax cut and proposing a tax giveaway for rich people, he has disabled himself."
Further, while it may seem that Mr. Bush is the one dominating the news lately with one fresh proposal after another, Gore aides express confidence that with major policy positions already laid out by the vice president, he is now well positioned to counter any public infatuation with his rival, much as he did in the primary campaign against former Senator Bill Bradley.
One central issue that should benefit the vice president is the economy. While he has distanced himself from President Clinton in several areas, he has of course fully embraced the robust Clinton-era economy. The Clinton economic record has been so successful that the voters, who once favored Republicans as stewards of the economy, now say they more trust the Democrats in that role.
Rachel Gorlin, a Democratic consultant not affiliated with the Gore campaign, said this amounted to a sea change that should work to the vice president's advantage. "You could never convince voters that a Republican is more fiscally irresponsible than a Democrat," she said. "That's changed."
But while crediting Mr. Gore with positioning himself to benefit on issues, Ms. Gorlin, like others, said he had still not made voters comfortable with him as a person.
"He acts like he's someone who's too scared of losing," she said. "He thinks the answer lies in a rational process."
After nearly a quarter-century in public office and nearly a year formally on the presidential campaign trail, Mr. Gore remains a remote and distant figure, according to independent polls as well as his own advisers. Changing that perception, his aides say, is his most important mission.
"His biggest asset is that he came out of the nominating process strengthened rather than weakened, and we still have a good economy and we can say we're better positioned to keep things going," one top adviser said. "His weakness is his ability to connect. George Bush is a likable guy."
Mr. Gore's problem is virtually the opposite of Mr. Bush's. The governor is bulking up on policy statements with a Democratic tilt to compensate for the perception that, though likable, he is a policy lightweight who veered too far to the right during the primaries. Mr. Gore has to convince voters of his human side, of his understanding how ordinary people feel, and also that he has lasting principles that make him more than a mere political tactician.
"His biggest problem is that he needs to find himself," said another Democratic strategist not affiliated with the campaign. "The biggest thing that voters perceive is that he doesn't have a North Star."
That perception has been evident to Gore advisers, and to the candidate himself, since the fall, when they began a concerted effort to strip him of the trappings of the vice presidency and place him in settings where he could appear unscripted and have a chance to interact with people. The goal, then as now, was to cultivate an aura of humanity that still eludes him.
"For whatever reason, he doesn't project that warmth, that strength of his personality," said one supporter, Elizabeth Bagley, former ambassador to Portugal. "When people see him on a one-on-one level in a personal, intimate setting, then they realize he's a warm, caring person. He's become very good at town meetings. He likes them and gets positive feedback from them. What he started doing on the campaign, once Bradley became a threat, has really helped him."
In a continuation of the town meetings that Mr. Gore held as a congressman from Tennessee and renewed in the primaries, his campaign is putting him in settings that scream ordinary American life: schools, homes and workplaces. The idea is that once people see him on a human scale, they will perceive him as, well, more human.
"The stalwart vice president in a blue suit standing behind the podium -- that is still the view that prevails in most states," a Gore insider said. "We have to put him in settings where that's not the case."
His advisers think those settings allow him to demonstrate his assets: not just the breadth and depth of his command of policy, but personal assets too, like a willingness to open himself up to spontaneous situations and his hunger for the job of president.
This is essentially a national retail strategy, in which Mr. Gore is trying to win voters over one by one. "The lessons of Iowa and New Hampshire are clear -- the more people see him, the more they like him," said Chris Lehane, his press secretary.
This means not only campaigning exhaustively but also pushing the Gore story -- and the anti-Bush message -- through advertising.
"Both campaigns will be able to run Iowa- and New Hampshire-like campaigns, with real advertising budgets," a senior adviser said. "We will be able to really introduce the candidate and tell a story that has a beginning, a middle and an end."
Mr. Gore plans to visit a school at least once every two weeks. He spent two full days in schools last week, one in Ohio, one in North Carolina, staying with families overnight. The visits generated positive local news coverage while showing the vice president involved with real people on education, a topic of major concern to voters.
The Gore campaign is also preparing for a more concerted challenge from Mr. Bush than it received from Mr. Bradley. One theme that Mr. Bradley arrived at belatedly and expressed only sporadically is one that Mr. Bush has already begun to exploit: that Mr. Gore changes his positions with the political winds and so cannot be trusted.
As if it were a company logo, Bush press releases are stamped with perhaps the single most damaging sentence that Mr. Bradley spoke to Mr. Gore during the primaries: "Why should we believe that you will tell the truth as president if you don't tell the truth as a candidate?" The real issue, Mr. Bradley said, was one of credibility.
Mr. Bradley posed that question during a New Hampshire debate, after Mr. Gore, who early in his career opposed federal financing of abortion, maintained that he had always been consistent in supporting abortion rights.
The Gore campaign clearly perceives credibility to be a matter on which it is vulnerable and, taking a page from the Clinton playbook, is trying to turn the issue against Mr. Bush. In a virtual echo of Mr. Bradley's question, the vice president recently told a gathering of newspaper editors: "How can we believe what he says he would do nationally when we see what he actually has done as governor? This is about something more than public policy. It is about credibility."
That tack is only a slight detour from the larger message that the campaign has been delivering: that Mr. Gore has the experience to be president, while Mr. Bush would be too much of a risk. It will be countered by an equally simple message from Austin: that Mr. Gore cannot be trusted, while Mr. Bush would restore honor and integrity to the White House. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); FIREARMS (68%); GUN CONTROL (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



569 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Firms Going Casual Help Job Seekers Suit Up

BYLINE: By ROBERT WORTH 

 BODY:
As New York's major law firms, banks and consulting firms shift to a casual dress code, the question arises: what are they doing with all those suits?
The answer is they are giving them to job seekers, some of whom may soon be better dressed than the city's power elite. Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, which recently became the first major Wall Street law firm to go casual full time, asked all its lawyers and staff members to donate a suit or other business attire and collected more than 500 clothing items, including scores of costly suits. Other major companies have organized suit drives recently, including American Express, Goldman Sachs, PaineWebber, McKinsey and McGraw-Hill. 
 Last week, the managing partner of Cadwalader, Robert O. Link Jr., helped carry the firm's donated suits out to a delivery truck. Mr. Link, who donated two dark pinstripes, a Hugo Boss and a Burberry, said he was happy to see them go. "It's more comfortable," he said of the muted green shirt, chinos and blazer he was wearing.
Less than 24 hours later, Claudio Young, a 24-year-old unemployed man from Washington Heights, was trying on a dark Paul Stuart pinstripe suit that had been donated by a Cadwalader employee, along with a Brooks Brothers shirt, a yellow silk tie and black wingtips. "I'm not a suit guy; I'm a hip-hop guy," he said. In fact, he said he had never worn a suit or a tie before. His usual outfit consists of baggy jeans -- Mecca and Sean John are his favorite brands -- Timberland boots, a basketball jersey and a baseball cap.
Mr. Young received his suit in a Midtown warehouse belonging to Career Gear, a nonprofit organization that works with low-income men to give them the clothes they need for interviews and jobs.
Like many other Career Gear clients, Mr. Young has had his share of troubles. After dropping out of school, he developed a drug habit, and was arrested in August 1997 for selling cocaine to an undercover agent. But he completed a treatment program, earned his general equivalency diploma, and after three months of job training, wound up at Career Gear.
And like most of the men who show up at Career Gear's basement warehouse near Madison Square Garden, Mr. Young was uneasy about his new clothes at first. Few of the men who come here know how to tie a necktie, and some find the suits uncomfortable. "I had one guy with a scar from ear to ear, a former gang guy," said Connie von Tobel, a volunteer at Career Gear. "He didn't want anything tight around the neck."
Mr. Young will soon have his first job interview. "I want to pay taxes, you know, real taxes," he said. He hopes to find a position as a photocopy machine technician.
Is it possible that he will feel a little overdressed for his interview? Gary Field, Career Gear's founder, said: "I don't think so. What's more important is the way it makes them feel."
Alexander Pryor, a former hotel worker, put on a Brooks Brothers suit after going through addiction and job-training programs, and now has a job with the New York Center for Addiction Treatment Services. "It boosts your confidence," he said.
Mr. Field, a social worker who has had his own struggles with unemployment and addiction, founded Career Gear last year. He had worked briefly at a law firm where female lawyers donated business clothing to Dress for Success, which works only with women and has been in business for three and a half years. "The male attorneys kept asking why they couldn't donate suits," he said.
Both Mr. Field and Arlene Wallace of Dress for Success said the shift to casual dress among New York companies had been a tremendous windfall for them. Career Gear has received about 2,000 suits over the last year. Dress for Success's New York affiliate has received 8,000 to 10,000 pieces of business clothing in the last three weeks, most of them suits, said Ms. Wallace, the organization's associate director. Both groups have also received hefty donations from designers, including Brooks Brothers, Polo and Ferragamo.
Mr. Field added, however, that the shift to casual wear posed complications. For one thing, his clients will have to keep up. "We're working with retailers, so they can get dress-casual stuff when they come back for the alumni programs," he said.
As businessmen dress down and job-seekers dress up, will the suit's status suffer? Probably not. Even at Cadwalader, lawyers dress up when they meet with clients. And the suit has survived similar challenges in the past.
"It's a flexible scheme of clothing," said Anne Hollander, an art historian and the author of "Sex and Suits: The Evolution of Modern Dress."
"It's been around for 200 years, if not more," she said. "So it has a likelihood of lasting much longer."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Claudio Young, 24, who is unemployed, tried on a Paul Stuart suit last week at Career Gear's Midtown warehouse. The business clothing was donated by a lawyer whose firm has shifted to a casual dress code. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CAREER GEAR CADWALADER WICKERSHAM & TAFT LLP (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); CAREER GEAR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAREER GEAR CAREER GEAR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; PHILANTHROPY; LABOR LAWYERS (91%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); CHARITIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); BASKETBALL (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (61%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (61%); COCAINE (61%); ARRESTS (50%); 

PERSON: WORTH, ROBERT CLAUDIO YOUNG (79%); GARY FIELD (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



570 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Mohawks Sign New Casino Deal, Leaving Catskill Plan in Limbo

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The leaders of the St. Regis Mohawk tribe, who were awaiting final approval to build a $500 million casino in the Catskills, have turned their backs on their original plan and instead have signed a highly unusual agreement with the largest gambling company in the world.
The deal would turn over exclusive rights to build, develop and manage any Mohawk casinos in New York State to the company, Park Place Entertainment, according to copies of the agreement given to The New York Times by people who deal with the tribe. Park Place is the owner of three casinos in Atlantic City. The rights to the Mohawk casinos could be worth billions of dollars, investment analysts who follow the gambling industry said. 
 In return, the impoverished Mohawks would receive a $3 million loan and a large percentage of the profits from any casino. Some industry analysts doubt that Park Place will ever build a Mohawk gambling hall because it would undercut the company's heavy investment in Atlantic City. Park Place's intentions are among the unanswered questions surrounding the deal, though the company says in the agreement that it will begin building a "gaming facility" within 36 months. It is unclear whether the agreement will stand up to federal scrutiny or a challenge by the tribe's original casino partners.
What is clear is that the agreement -- negotiated by Arthur M. Goldberg, the chief executive of Park Place Entertainment, with the help of former United States Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato -- will almost certainly delay the coming of any casino to the Catskills for years.
Originally, the Catskill Development Group had planned to donate 30 acres to the tribe for a casino in Monticello, N.Y., in return for a share of the revenue. The Catskill group learned only Thursday night about the agreement, which was signed by six tribal chiefs and Mr. Goldberg on April 14. Robert Berman, a partner in the Catskill group, said the tribe was misled.
"This is the greatest rip-off of an Indian tribe since the Dutch grabbed Manhattan for $24," Mr. Berman said. "We hope that the tribe will understand that Park Place is a wolf in sheep's clothing whose true intention is to kill the casino in Monticello to protect their interests in Atlantic City. The tribe is selling out its future for a $3 million loan. But I still believe there's an opportunity for the tribe to salvage this."
Mr. Berman said he believed the tribe could renounce the Park Place deal on technical grounds.
Donald J. Trump and other Atlantic City casino operators -- but not Mr. Goldberg -- have spent millions lobbying in Albany against the Monticello casino, which they believe would cut into their profits by attracting gamblers from New York City and northern New Jersey. Analysts have said the Monticello casino would generate more than half a billion dollars a year in revenue.
Neither Mr. Goldberg nor the company's general counsel, Clive Cummis, returned telephone calls yesterday requesting comment. Both men were at the Mohawks' Akwesasne Reservation yesterday on the Canadian border in Hogansburg, N.Y.
Gus McDonald, the tribe's executive director, and the six chiefs who signed the agreement also did not return telephone calls.
The tribal clerk, Carol Herne, and a former Mohawk chief, Barbara Lazore, both said they were appalled by the deal with Park Place. The two women said they confronted Mr. Goldberg yesterday at a restaurant on the reservation, where he was meeting with the tribal leaders.
"We can't allow this project to go down the drain," Ms. Lazore said. "I don't believe they're here to help the Monticello project. It'd be the No. 1 competition to Atlantic City."
Casino gambling is unconstitutional in New York, but sovereign Indian lands are an exception. Only 16 days ago, the federal Interior Department approved a four-year-old proposal in which Mr. Berman's group would get around the constitutional problem by giving the federal government 30 acres next to the Monticello Raceway in trust for the Mohawks. The Monticello casino plan is now awaiting approval by Gov. George E. Pataki and, possibly, the Legislature.
But even as Mr. Berman's application was approved in Washington, Mohawk tribal leaders were being wooed in secret by Mr. Goldberg and his adviser, Mr. D'Amato, according to tribal executives, rival casino operators and Catskill Development.
"This seems to add a whole new dimension to an already complex situation," said Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Governor Pataki. "We'll need to review the document closely. It appears to have some significant implications."
Mr. D'Amato, a longtime adviser to Mr. Goldberg, is also close to the governor. The former senator did not return calls, but Wayne Berman, Mr. D'Amato's partner, said their consulting company ceased representing Park Place on April 14, the day the agreement was signed with the Mohawks. Wayne Berman, who is no relation to Robert Berman, declined to discuss Mr. D'Amato's work on behalf of Park Place. An official in the Pataki administration said that Mr. D'Amato had stepped down as Park Place's consultant to prevent his friendship with the governor from putting Mr. Pataki in an awkward position.
The Park Place deal with the Mohawks is unusual, the investment analysts said, because Indian tribes routinely grant casino development rights for specific locations. They said no tribe had ever given exclusive rights to as large a territory as New York State.
In return for granting Park Place exclusive development rights, tribal leaders received a $3 million loan from the casino company "for use by the tribe in its discretion." The tribe presumably would use the money to bolster its small money-losing casino in Hogansburg, where the Mohawks recently ousted the existing operator as part of a separate deal with Park Place. The Mohawks would also get 70 percent of the profits from every casino, after Park Place is reimbursed for any advances.
The casino development agreement would not cover the Hogansburg casino or a proposal that just surfaced last year for a Mohawk casino in Greene County.
Jason Ader, an analyst with Bear Stearns, said Mr. Goldberg was playing a shrewd game of chess. On the one hand, he said, Mr. Goldberg could be using the prospect of a first-class casino in the Catskills to scare off other companies that are considering building new casinos in Atlantic City.
"The question is, does he ever want to get it built?" Mr. Ader said. "With one-third of his profits coming from Atlantic City, the expansion of gaming in New York could be detrimental to this franchise."
There is little question that the Mohawks want new casinos to provide the tribe with money and jobs. Unemployment on the Mohawks' Akwesasne reservation ranges from 35 to 40 percent. But the year-old casino on the reservation in Hogansburg loses about $300,000 a month.
In an interview earlier this month, one tribal executive expressed concern that Alpha Entertainment, a gambling company that is working with Catskill Development, would not gain the approval of the National Indian Gaming Commission, which oversees casino management contracts signed by Indian tribes. Desperate to avoid another Hogansburg catastrophe, the tribal leaders looked to the largest casino operator in the world for salvation.
Instead of simply buying out Alpha Entertainment and replacing it, however, Mr. Goldberg sought to take over completely. But one tribal adviser said that Mr. Goldberg had promised to build a casino for the tribe in Sullivan County within four months, which the adviser said was absurd. The Interior Department approved a specific proposal at the Monticello Raceway. Any new proposal would have to undergo an approval process that could take years.
Questioning whether Park Place's promises to the tribe could ever be delivered, one Mohawk adviser said, "The chiefs are so obsessed with the on-reservation casino that they've lost sight of the larger picture." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (92%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: PARK PLACE ENTERTAINMENT CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (92%); ATLANTIC CITY PARK PLACE (82%); CATSKILL DEVELOPMENT GROUP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARK PLACE ENTERTAINMENT ATLANTIC CITY PARK PLACE (82%); CATSKILL DEVELOPMENT GROUP (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CATSKILL MOUNTAINS; NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; MOHAWK INDIANS; INDIANS, AMERICAN GAMING (93%); CASINOS (91%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); LOBBYING (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V DONALD TRUMP (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



571 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Making a Fuss Over Opening Credits;
Film Titles Offer a Peek at the Future in More Ways Than One

BYLINE: By SARAH BOXER 

 BODY:
A new branch of history -- or is it merely a twig? -- has sprouted: the history of film titles. In case you are someone who talks through movie previews and credits, film titles generally appear after the film quiz, after the dancing hot dogs and popcorn, after the on-screen hushing and before the movie proper has begun.
Film titles have certain responsibilities. They must display the movie's title and the name of the director, establish the hierarchy of actors and ease the audience into the movie. Some title sequences, however, have outgrown their workaday functions. Because they are physically and historically "on the periphery of films," said David Peters, a graphic designer who studies title sequences, they have often been more experimental, a peek into the future of filmmaking. The best of them are movies within movies, with a rhythm and mood of their own. 
 If you compare a movie to a dream, said Ken Coupland, a design writer, then "the first few minutes of a film can be compared to the curious stage of consciousness that marks the transition between wakefulness and sleep."
Now designers and design historians are looking back on the history of film titles and even creating a canon of film title classics. A new book, "Type in Motion" (Rizzoli, 1999), suggests that film-title design is the mother of all moving typography -- now the stuff of music and art videos. This month the Film Society of Lincoln Center even presented a weekend-long program of film titles, organized by Wendy Keys of the Film Society with Mr. Coupland and Mr. Peters.
Not everyone is champing at the bit for a history of titles. "In cinema studies," said Annette Michelson, a film scholar at New York University, "people are always casting about for previously unexplored areas of film. Someday somebody will write a dissertation on the popcorn stand in the movie lobby."
Nonetheless the history of title design, a branch of graphic design studies, is taking shape. Title designers can tell you who among them introduced multiple screens, quick cuts, atonality, jazz, government stock photographs and grunge design to the title sequences of movies. And they have their own private pantheon.
Their uncontested Zeus is Saul Bass, who designed the title sequences for "The Man with the Golden Arm," "Vertigo," "Psycho," "Walk on the Wild Side," and the end title for "Around the World in 80 Days," which is a reprise of the whole movie in eight minutes. Then there are the other gods: Pablo Ferro ("Dr. Strangelove"), Wayne Fitzgerald ("Bonnie and Clyde"), Friz Freleng ("The Pink Panther"), Stephen Frankfurt ("To Kill a Mockingbird"), Maurice Binder ("Dr. No"), Richard Greenberg ("The World According to Garp"), Juan Gatti ("Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown") and Kyle Cooper ("Seven").
In the beginning there were no film title sequences. The earliest titles, for silent films, were presented on title cards -- cards with printed material on them that were photographed and incorporated into the film. The cards gave the dialogue and set the time, place and action of the scenes. They also issued polite commands to the audience, like "Would the ladies please remove their hats?"
As decades passed, titles got frillier. They were displayed on silk, satin or wallpaper or on boxes that opened and on calendars whose pages blew away one by one. There were some exceptions to the rule -- notably, Mr. Peters said, the title for "Double Indemnity," which featured the silhouette of a man on crutches, and the neon credits that flashed on the skyscrapers in the opening of "My Man Godfrey." But fundamentally titles didn't change.
Then came Saul Bass. Bass's title for Otto Preminger's 1955 movie about drug addiction, "The Man With the Golden Arm," broke the mold. It was the first to use a jazz score, and it was graphically gripping. Slim white bars on a black background jostle the actors' names before twisting into a jagged arm. The arm, which Martin Scorsese called "a malignant force reaching down into the world and the lives of the characters," became the center of the movie's marketing.
In 1958 Bass teamed up with Hitchcock for "Vertigo" and again broke new ground. To atonal music he foreshadowed the movie with graphic puns and symbols. As Mr. Peters and Mr. Coupland observed, Bass's close-up of a woman's face was a prelude to the movie's voyeurism; his splashing the letters of James Stewart's name above her lips formed a symbolic mustache (suggesting that he was an accessory to the woman's crime); and a spinning spiral in the iris of her eye was a preamble to the vertigo to come.
Title designs took off in the late 1950's, but the second "title wave" did not begin, Mr. Hall notes, until Stephen Frankfurt created the opener for "To Kill a Mockingbird" in 1962. Frankfurt's haunting sequence, accompanied by a flute, a piano and a child humming, was the first "opener in which a camera lovingly pans across details," like scissors, crayons, dolls and pens -- small, precious objects that, Mr. Hall writes, "grow in significance later in the film."
The high renaissance of film titles was in the 1960's. As legend has it, in 1962 Maurice Binder thought up the famous title for "Dr. No" in the 15 minutes before he met with the producers. In the sequence, the audience looks down the barrel of a gun and then sees Bond cross the screen, point his gun and shoot at them, leaving a trickle of blood behind. This became the logo for years of 007-movies. But it was Robert Brownjohn who carried the Bond allure one step further in "Goldfinger" by projecting film from the movie onto a nude woman's body.
One other 1960's title became a logo for a series. In 1963 Blake Edwards asked Friz Freleng of Bugs Bunny fame to make the titles for "The Pink Panther." The result is forever bonded to the movie: a cartoon panther, prowling to Henry Mancini's score, constantly inserts himself into the credits.
Arguably the most subversive development in film title sequences was the opening for Stanley Kubrick's 1964 film "Dr. Strangelove." According to Pablo Ferro, the designer, the United States Air Force was so proud of its B-52's in-flight refueling capabilities that it had plenty of stock photographs of them. Little did the military know that in Mr. Ferro's hands, the B-52's tethered to their refueling ships, bouncing lightly up and down and paired with the song "Try a Little Tenderness," would come out as a comic sex scene.
By the 1970's the tiny design revolution was over. The recession meant shrinking opportunities and a shrinking screen. As movies were put on television, titles were squeezed and simplified so they could fit on the screen and be used as labels for tie-in toys.
Title collectors reverted to old tricks. When Dan Perri did the titles for "Star Wars," he created "the Star Wars crawl": a typed message to the universe that rolls backward toward a vanishing point. But that high-tech classic came from an old western in which the credits rolled into the distance like railroad tracks.
Computer technology revived the art of title design in the 1980's. As Steve Heller notes in "Design Literacy (Continued)" (Allworth, 1999), in 1982 "Richard Greenberg landed in the annals of design history" by creating an airborne infant for the opening of "The World According to Garp" with the aid of a programmable camera.
The latest trend, Mr. Hall writes, is grunge title design, the descendant of the distressed typography of print graphics. And the king of grunge is Mr. Greenberg's former associate, Kyle Cooper, whose best known title is for "Seven." Mr. Cooper used the tabletop shoot pioneered in "To Kill a Mockingbird." But emotionally the two sequences are worlds apart. Mr. Cooper said that his fetishistic survey was a view of a serial killer assembling a diary "documenting the murders he'll execute during the film."
The degraded typography, jittery jump cutting and "twitching, hand-hewn type" ushered in a new era in film titles, Mr. Hall writes. And it had a democratizing effect. Everyone with a computer began thinking, hey, maybe I can do that.
That could explain why title designers are now writing their history. With desktop filmmaking on the horizon, the very notion of auteur title designers seems quaint. The writing of history begins when an era is ending.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: April 25, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Arts & Ideas on Saturday about the history of opening film credits omitted the given name of the author of a magazine article on the subject and the identity of the publication in which it appeared. He is Peter Hall; he wrote the article for I.D., the International Design Magazine.

GRAPHIC: Photos: From "Type in Motion: Innovations in Digital Graphics" by Jeff Bellantoni and Matt Woolman/Rizzoli International; The title sequence for "Vertigo" was created by Saul Bass, the uncontested hero of the genre, who also made the titles for "Psycho" and "The Man With the Golden Arm." For "Dr. Strangelove," Pablo Ferro accompanied the titles with "Try a Little Tenderness," turning a deadly matter into a comic scene. (Film Society of Lincoln Center)(pg. B9)
 
Chart: "The Images That Linger"
The opening credits for these films, listed with their creators, were among the classics in a Film Society of Lincoln Center program.
 
The Man With the Golden Arm (1955), Saul Bass
Funny Face (1965), Richard Avedon
Vertigo (1958), Saul Bass
Pillow Talk (1959), Wayne Fitzgerald
Psycho (1960), Saul Bass
To Kill a Mockingbird (1962), Stephen Frankfurt
Dr. No (1962), Maurice Binder
Pink Panther (1963), Friz Freleng
Dr. Strangelove (1963), Pablo Ferro
Goldfinger (1964), Robert Brownjohn
Barbarella (1967), Arcady
Bonnie and Clyde (1967), Wayne Fitzgerald
Bullit (1968), Pablo Ferro
The Thomas Crown Affair (1975), Pablo Ferro
Star Wars (1977), Dan Perri
Alien (1979), Richard Greenberg
The World According to Garp (1982), Richard Greenberg
Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown (1988), Juan Gatti
To Die For (1995), Pablo Ferro
Clockers (1995), Randy Balsmeyer and Mimi Everett
Seven (1996), Kyle Cooper
The Island of Dr. Moreau (1996), Kyle Cooper
Ratchet (1996), Marlene McCarty
Night Falls on Manhattan (1996), Jakob Trollback
Entre las Piernas (1998), Juan Gatti
Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me (1999), Robert Dawson.
(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES FILM HISTORY (90%); FILM (90%); FILM SCHOOLS (89%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); HISTORY (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); WRITERS (67%); 

PERSON: BOXER, SARAH SAUL BASS (68%); DAVID PETERS (65%); KEN COUPLAND (56%); STEPHEN FRANKFURT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2000



572 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Don't Quit the Night Job

BYLINE: By Thomas A. Bass; Thomas A. Bass is the author of "The Predictors," a book about using advanced physics to predict the world's financial markets.

 BODY:

DUMB MONEY
 Adventures of a Day Trader.
 By Joey Anuff and Gary Wolf.
 219 pp. New York:
 Random House. $23.95. 
 Day trading, which is stock speculating by mouse click, sits at the intersection of two of today's red-hot obsessions -- the Internet and gambling. Stoking the craze is the stock market bubble and the promise of "disintermediation." This is a fancy way of saying, "Death to the middleman!" Brokers, market makers and markets themselves are headed for the ash heap of history. They are being replaced by Leibnizian monads, autarkic individuals wired together into one huge global electronic market open for betting 24 hours a day.
The problem for day traders is that we're not there yet. The dream of frictionless, cost-free speculating keeps bumping up against the reality of brokerage commissions, spreads, capital gains taxes and trades that go unexecuted.
Day trading is a sucker's game, as people learned in the summer of 1999, when Mark O. Barton opened fire in two Atlanta day-trading shops, killing nine people and injuring 12 others. Barton, after flushing his life savings down the high-tech toilet, was more demonstrative than his colleagues, but many of them must have been feeling their own "trade rage." Ninety percent of the players mousing around in electronic bucket shops lose money, and the sport is no less perilous when played at home.
Of all the deadly sins currently tempting us, envy is topping the charts. Who wants to get rich? Everyone! Who wants to work for it? No one! But as the hero of "Dumb Money" makes clear, day trading itself is hard work. He rises at 4:50 a.m. to catch the market's opening. He suffers from stress headaches and nosebleeds. He is addicted to Nicorettes and Xanax.
Yet day trading is a growth industry -- and so is writing about it. The flurry of books on the subject follows the same formula, combining investigative reporting on day trading with step-by-step instructions on how to do it. The resulting schizophrenic discourse resembles the confessions of a dope fiend, bundled with cheery advice on how to mainline.
I expected better of Joey Anuff and Gary Wolf's account of Anuff's short life as a day trader. The editor of the Webzine Suck.com, Anuff is a great wit and truly funny man when he is skewering the pretensions of the Silicon Valley moguls he surveys from his overpriced south-of-Market-Street San Francisco loft apartment. Wolf, a contributing editor at Wired, is an ace reporter who knows the digital revolution inside out. Put them together, and they should make quick work fulfilling Suck.com's mandate: "a fish, a barrel and a smoking gun."
Indeed, some of their writing rises to this level. Anuff does a brilliant job of lampooning his own stock-picking strategy. "I stepped up to the trading screen from a childhood of Asteroids and Pac-Man and Doom, where little graphical symbols convincingly represented missile fire and cannibalism and mass murder." Day trading "is the same thing, only more violent."
Unfortunately, the authors start pulling their punches toward the end of the book. Anuff confesses that day trading is not an "occupation" but a "neurosis." He realizes he's a lucky monkey, someone who made an accidental $50,000 guessing that eBay, a Web site designed for buying and selling Pez dispensers, would emerge with a market capitalization comparable to General Motors.
He begins an earnest search for a winning system. He attends seminars given by day-trading gurus. Finally, he consults a "trading coach" who specializes in pumping up the psyches of flagging stock jockeys. This is the barrel. Anuff is the fish. But instead of shooting these easy targets, the book returns to its hero -- supposedly recovered from his addiction -- musing, "Am I a millionaire yet?" Joey, get your gun! 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DUMB MONEY: ADVENTURES OF A DAY TRADER (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (72%); LITERATURE (61%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (53%); 

PERSON: BASS, THOMAS A; ANUFF,JOEY; WOLF, GARY JOEY ANUFF (94%); GARY WOLF (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



573 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 8; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: High Fidelity

BYLINE: By Dwight Garner; Dwight Garner is an editor at the Book Review.

 BODY:

LET IT BLURT
 The Life and Times of Lester Bangs, America's Greatest Rock Critic.
 By Jim DeRogatis.
 Illustrated. 331 pp. New York:
 Broadway Books. Paper, $15.95. 
 UNLIKE most rock critics, who scrutinize "The Sun Sessions" as if they were the Dead Sea Scrolls, Lester Bangs was never fanatical about Elvis Presley. In the early-to-mid-70's, the years in which Bangs poured forth the best of his discursive and radiantly unbuttoned writing, he was too busy championing the kind of music he liked to call "imperative groin thunder" -- among his obsessions were the Stooges, the Troggs and Lou Reed -- to spend many afternoons blowing the dust from his old Presley LP's. (If Elvis really wanted to matter again, Bangs cracked in 1971, he should "join the Doors.") Yet after Presley's death, in a piece for The Los Angeles Herald-Examiner, Bangs quoted a memorable line from one of Elvis's producers: "It's like someone just came up and told me there aren't going to be any more cheeseburgers in the world."
When Lester Bangs died in 1982, apparently of an overdose of the prescription painkiller Darvon, it was as if someone had taken the French fries and the chocolate shakes, too. Bangs was among those rare American critics who operate on their own wildcat frequency: all riffs, all the time. He could be childish, inaccurate, unfair, lazy -- yet decades later, his sentences have lost little of their crackle. The only critics worth paying attention to, Mencken once wrote, "could make the thing charming, and that is always a million times more important than making it true." Bangs managed to charm even most of his enemies.
He made more than his share. Part of the fun of flipping through "Psychotic Reactions and Carburetor Dung" (1987), a sampling of Bangs's work edited by Greil Marcus, is watching him strew carnage in all directions. For Bangs, "grossness was the truest criterion for rock 'n' roll" -- his preference for music that gave him "barking fits" helped him define the aesthetics of punk and heavy metal -- and he loathed pretension and cheap sentiment. Thus the members of Led Zeppelin were "emaciated fops"; the Jefferson Airplane was made up of "radical dilettante capitalist pigs"; and an infamous essay about egocentricity in rock was titled "James Taylor Marked for Death." ("If I hear one more Jesus-walking-the-boys-and-girls-down-a-Carolina-path-while-the-dilemma-of-existence-crashes-like-a-slab-of-hod-on-J.T.'s-shoulders song," Bangs wrote, he would grab the first Greyhound bus and track Taylor down himself.) He could be even more passionate about the music he loved, whether Van Morrison's "Astral Weeks" or Lou Reed's headache-inducing "Metal Machine Music." There hasn't been another rock critic like him, and there isn't likely to be -- it's hard to imagine, in the cool and well-ventilated world of today's music magazines, who would publish him.
As Jim DeRogatis's readable and well-researched new biography of Bangs makes clear, he lived as exuberantly as he wrote. He was a hard guy to miss in a crowd: at 6-foot-1 and more than 200 pounds, Bangs looked like a manic version of Rob Reiner circa "All in the Family." He rarely bathed (The Village Voice once referred to him as a "walking dirt bomb"), and he ingested enough cheap stimulants (Romilar cough syrup was an early favorite) to fuel a decade's worth of Keith Richards solo tours. But his restless intellect, outsize personality and big heart drew people to him; he may have been the last rock critic in America to attract groupies of his own.
At times, "Let It Blurt" can read like a transcription of a saccharine VH1 "Behind the Music" documentary -- a catalog of Bangs's excesses and up-all-night gab sessions followed by the inevitable morning-after homilies ("Lester seemed to be gripped by a loneliness that intimates could not alleviate"). DeRogatis, a pop music critic for The Chicago Sun-Times, is a capable writer if rarely an inspired one; it's not his fault that every time he quotes passages from Bangs's own writing, the book seems to shift from black and white into color.
One of DeRogatis's achievements here, however, is his evocation of the shaggy world of the first-generation rock magazines -- notably Creem (founded in 1969), but also Rolling Stone (founded in 1967) -- and the even shaggier writers they attracted. Bangs fell in with a group of aggressive, largely self-educated critics that included Nick Tosches, Dave Marsh and Richard Meltzer, and DeRogatis contrasts their antics with the more professorial demeanor of Robert Christgau, the Village Voice writer and editor, and Greil Marcus, who was Rolling Stone's first full-time record reviews editor. (There's a funny scene where Bangs spots Marcus in the crowd at Altamont, donnishly smoking a pipe.)
While no one will mistake this gang for the New York Intellectuals, their work has, for better and sometimes worse, defined rock criticism as a genre, and for some readers the gossip about them and others will be worth the price of admission. DeRogatis brings home the goods: there are pages of bickering, debauched behavior and romantic angst -- whether it's Christgau hurling food at his former girlfriend Ellen Willis, who was then The New Yorker's rock critic, Bangs stealing the critic James Wolcott's girlfriend out from under his nose, or Bangs falling for the writer Cynthia Heimel after she approached him at a rock club and announced, "I just took half a Quaalude and drank three Scotches, and I'm not responsible for anything I do."
DeRogatis's portrait of Bangs is similarly rich in oddball detail. Born in 1948, the future wild man of rock criticism was raised in what he called "the ice-cream and television world" of El Cajon, Calif.; his father was a frequently unemployed trucker, his mother a crusading Jehovah's Witness. Bangs was a bright, high-strung kid who, while in high school, fell hard for the visions in Jack Kerouac's books and Miles Davis's music; he fell just as hard for the visions induced by wacky methods of getting high (drinking vanilla extract, lacing chocolate shakes with nutmeg). His rebellion frequently took hilarious forms. When a gym coach ordered him to write a 10-page paper for each of the five days of class he had missed, Bangs turned in a rambling 50-page story called "Hector the Homosexual Monkey." He was suspended for a week.
Bangs fell into rock journalism almost by accident. He was kicking around and working as a shoe salesman when, in the late 60's, he responded to an ad in Rolling Stone -- the magazine was looking for a few good critics. He sent in some reviews, and he quickly became a regular presence in the magazine, despite Jann Wenner's objections to some of his more opinionated and obnoxious pieces. Bangs fled Rolling Stone in 1970, in favor of writing, and later editing, for Detroit's rowdier Creem magazine, which published his best and most free-form essays, profiles and criticism.
In 1976, Bangs left Creem and moved to New York, where he fell in with the punk crowd at CBGB, wrote for The Voice and fronted a few unsuccessful bands of his own. ("Lester sounded like a baying walrus," one of his drummers said.) By the early 80's the years of hard living had caught up with him: he began waking up on sidewalks; friends would stuff food into his pockets so he'd remember to eat something when he finally made it home.
DeRogatis doesn't romanticize Bangs's self-destructive rampages, although at times he comes close. Some readers may also feel that DeRogatis doesn't do quite enough to rebut Bangs's happily juvenile notion that true rock 'n' roll has to be made by hormone-addled "guitar-slappin' brats." Not all great rock music -- as anyone who cares about, say, Marianne Faithfull or Lucinda Williams realizes -- is a rude stew of adolescent impulses. But it's hard to disagree with Bangs's observation that "I just like people with some Looney Tune in their souls."
Bangs never got around to finishing the novel he'd sporadically toiled on for years; with the exception of quickie books about Rod Stewart and the band Blondie, none of his other book proposals came to fruition, either. Yet almost two decades after his death, his pedal-to-the-floor criticism is more influential and celebrated than ever -- his name has been invoked in song lyrics by everyone from the Ramones to Bob Seger to R.E.M. Only a fraction of Bangs's criticism has appeared between hard covers, and it's impossible to scan the carefully compiled bibliography at the close of "Let It Blurt" without sensing that someone needs to issue a second anthology of his work -- the rest of Lester Bangs. Luckily, in one of those book proposals, he left behind a pretty good title: "A Reasonable Guide to Horrible Noise."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce Springsteen, left, with Lester Bangs in New York City, 1975. (Chuck Pulin/from "Let It Blurt")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LET IT BLURT (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); LITERATURE (73%); DEATHS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (51%); 

PERSON: GARNER, DWIGHT; DEROGATIS, JIM BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



574 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 21; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Brand Names

BYLINE: By James Ledbetter; James Ledbetter is the New York bureau chief of The Industry Standard and author of "Made Possible By . . . : The Death of Public Broadcasting in the United States."

 BODY:

NO LOGO
 Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies.
 By Naomi Klein.
 Illustrated. 490 pp. New York:
 Picador USA. $28. 
 In the mid-1990's, anyone who spent much time on college campuses was struck by the ubiquity of spray-painted graffiti urging a boycott of Pepsi products. The stenciled protests attacked the company for producing and selling its soft drinks in Burma, now known as Myanmar, despite the brutal dictatorship there. Yet even a person reasonably well informed about consumer politics had probably never heard a peep about this subject: not in the newspapers, not from Congress, not from personal contact with anyone who refused to drink Pepsi. I half-assumed it was a nasty disinformation tactic from Coca-Cola.
But as Naomi Klein explains in "No Logo," the campaign against Pepsi was the real thing: it began in Ottawa's Carleton University and spread, mostly by Internet, to Harvard and Stanford and to universities in England. By 1997, Pepsi announced "total disengagement" from Burma, and the activist network proclaimed: "We now know we have the grass-roots power to yank one of the most powerful corporations in the world."
Forced acts of corporate contrition became relatively common in the 1990's -- as Shell, Nike and Kathie Lee Gifford can all attest -- and yet the activism behind them is largely invisible. Isn't the current generation of youth, after all, the most politically passive and consumer-oriented in decades?
Klein's compelling book immerses readers into that apparent contradiction. She ventures into sweatshops in the Philippines, attends classes for anticorporate crusaders and goes "culture jamming" with groups who deface billboards in the middle of the night.
Her thesis, which takes too many chapters to develop, is that global corporations are often victims of their own image-building largess. In their brazen attempts to capture the youth market, companies like Benetton, Calvin Klein and Nike have very loudly identified their brands with do-gooder goals like equality and tolerance.
Such bold brand expansions set the bar for corporate behavior quite high. Marketing now adopts "complex, essential social ideas, for which many people have spent lifetimes fighting," Klein explains. "That's what lends righteousness to the rage of activists campaigning against what they see as cynical distortions of those ideas."
Global companies now sponsor everything from rock concerts to university chairs to school lunches, worming themselves deeply into consumers' lives and identities. In so doing, Klein demonstrates, companies make themselves vulnerable to backlashes. Had Pepsi not been pushing hard to gain contracts in universities in the mid-90's, it's unlikely that students would have focused on the company's practices abroad.
The book's conclusions are largely grim: Klein links the development of multinational branding to the growth of international sweatshops, corporate censorship and the disappearance of the steady job. She finds some hope in loosely organized protest groups like Britain's Reclaim the Streets, and while the protests against the World Trade Organization in Seattle happened too late to be included in this volume, they show the potential impact of the movements "No Logo" chronicles.
Klein is a gifted writer; her paragraphs can be as seductive as the ad campaigns she dissects. She makes graceful use of disparate source material, gliding naturally from dissenters like William Greider to the editors of Temp Slave magazine, the house organ of the underemployed. And she is careful not to equate her criticisms with a false nostalgia for an ad-free past; instead, Klein takes the fairly unassailable position that our lives ought to have at least some "unbranded space."
Yet there's a strange selectivity in Klein's examples that leaves you wondering if she's told the whole story. She spends immense amounts of time analyzing the "cool" brands of the early 90's -- Starbucks, Microsoft, Nike -- but fails to train her microscope on such industries as tobacco, liquor, financial services and petroleum (except Shell), none of which have been shy about branding in recent decades.
And there are sections, particularly where Klein ventures into macroeconomics, that cry out for greater rigor. In discussing what she portrays as a decline in the American job market, for example, Klein avoids the debate over increased productivity, as well as the fact that small businesses, rather than brand-crazed multinationals, have been the principal engine of job growth for many years. For Klein to disagree with mainstream economic thinking on such questions could be a virtue; to ignore it is definitely a vice.
Such omissions do not negate Klein's better thinking. They suggest, however, that even the most critical observers of brand theory can become deceived about the real power -- and limits -- of modern corporations.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Barry Gilmore/from "No Logo")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: NO LOGO: TAKING AIM AT THE BRAND BULLIES (BOOK)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (77%); ENGLAND (56%); 

CITY: OTTAWA, ON, CANADA (52%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (77%); ENGLAND (56%); OTTAWA, ON, CANADA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BRANDING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); YOUTH MARKET (77%); BOYCOTTS (77%); SOFT DRINKS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LITERATURE (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); POP & ROCK (50%); 

PERSON: LEDBETTER, JAMES; KLEIN, NAOMI KATHIE LEE GIFFORD (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



575 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 23; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Free and Uneasy

BYLINE: By Stephen Schlesinger; Stephen Schlesinger, the director of the World Policy Institute, is the author, with Stephen Kinzer, of "Bitter Fruit: The Untold Story of the American Coup in Guatemala."

 BODY:

From Voting
 to Violence
 Democratization and Nationalist Conflict.
 By Jack Snyder.
 Maps. 382 pp. New York:
 W. W. Norton & Company. $29.95. 
 In a time of euphoria about democracy around the globe, "From Voting to Violence" serves as a useful caution against a wave of electoral triumphalism. Jack Snyder, the chairman of the political science department at Columbia University, has examined the recent -- and not so recent -- passages of autocratic or totalitarian nations into democracies, and his text warns just how hazardous those transitions are.
Snyder advances a provocative thesis (though in workmanlike prose laced with far too much poli-sci jargon). Countries in the early throes of democratizing are subject to considerable perils from outbreaks of nationalism. The question of how a country manages nationalist eruptions while holding its elections determines whether it can establish a durable democracy or will eventually slide into violence and war. His is a realist brief about democracy.
Snyder cites four types of nationalism that he believes have affected democratizing countries in the last three centuries: counterrevolutionary, revolutionary, ethnic and civic. The calmest is civic, as epitomized by Britain's relatively benign historical evolution. The three others are prone to various degrees of instability because they are vulnerable to elites grabbing power undemocratically under a guise of nationalist rhetoric.
For example, Snyder asserts that the French upheaval of 1789 was a case of "revolutionary nationalism," whereby assorted factions attempted to seize the government during spates of freedom by waving the tricolor on behalf of the French people but inexorably leading the way to Napoleon. Germany in the late 19th century and during the Nazi period represented a "counterrevolutionary nationalism" in which officials already in power used the tricks of culture, history and blood to thwart the development of real democracy and provoke a series of European wars. And the recent explosions in Serbia are an example of "ethnic nationalism," with cynical leaders appealing to myth and religion to hold onto their authority.
At times, Snyder's thesis is so elastic that it stretches into formlessness: democratic transitions can, in various instances, exhibit all the attributes of his theory. There are loose ends, too. What, for example, constitutes the length of a democratic transition: a year, a decade, a century? Nonetheless, Snyder's insight remains an impressive one -- that democratizations can be a dangerous business.
Snyder offers his own prescriptions for newly emerging free states, but in doing so, he first dismisses the approaches of many human rights organizations. He particularly criticizes Human Rights Watch for insisting on free debates and elections in shaky nations (like Rwanda) that in his view lack the institutional foundations for democracy, or are openly threatened by ethnic or religious tensions. Such demands, he says, only make the problems more intractable.
INSTEAD, Snyder suggests that the global community should help foster the conditions for liberalization before urging outright democratization. He makes a formidable case for such prior conditions as economic development, the emergence of a middle class and the establishment of a "thick" skein of liberal institutions. But some of his other proposals are not so persuasive. He favors putting limits on free speech on occasion. He presses for ethnic-blind politics, a virtuous but often impractical goal. He tosses out the wholly nave idea of giving golden parachutes to entrenched leaders to get them out of the way. Snyder's book is a warning to the democracies of the planet that to preserve the advance of liberal government, they should aggressively assist nations struggling to create an elective future -- but that the job won't be an easy one. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FROM VOTING TO VIOLENCE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); SERBIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); SERBIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); GERMANY (76%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ELECTIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COUPS (78%); POLITICS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); LITERATURE (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); 

PERSON: SCHLESINGER, STEPHEN; SNYDER, JACK JACK SNYDER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



576 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Sierra Club Sues Hawaii On Tourism Promotion

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
IN a move that shocked the Hawaii tourist industry and caused jitters among tourist officials on the mainland, the Sierra Club has sued the Hawaii Tourism Authority in the Hawaii Supreme Court. The suit, filed Jan. 11, seeks to force the state agency to perform a statewide environmental assessment, which it claims is required by law, before allocating $114 million to the Hawaii Visitors and Convention Bureau for marketing and promotion.
If the suit is upheld, it could have major implications for Hawaii, where tourism is the major industry. 
 "Seven million tourists descend on Hawaii each year, drinking our water, using our electricity, generating sewage and garbage and filling our beaches," said Jeff Mikulina, the director of the Sierra Club's Hawaii chapter. "An environmental assessment would tell us whether Hawaii's physical and natural infrastructure can handle more tourists."
Though Sierra Club officials said they were not contemplating other such suits, tourism officials elsewhere are worried. "If the State of Hawaii loses this lawsuit," said Lt. Gov. Lorraine Hunt of Nevada, the chairwoman of that state's tourism commission, "it could set a precedent for blocking other states, such as Nevada, as well as county and local entities from promoting tourism."
John Hunt, professor emeritus of resource recreation and tourism at the University of Idaho, said he would have preferred another way of calling attention to the need for an environmental assessment. But, he added, the suit "may make all of us pay more attention to certain aspects of tourism that can have a negative impact on the environment."
In its petition to the court, the Sierra Club said that before government agencies in Hawaii spend state funds, they are required to undertake an environmental assessment.
But Robert Fishman, the tourism authority's chief executive, called the suit "a patently ridiculous and inappropriate interpretation" of the law. The environmental assessment process, he said, applies to land use, construction and excavation.
A bill in the State Legislature would exempt tourism from having to comply with the law requiring environmental assessment, a procedure that could lead to a full-fledged environmental impact study.
Differences about the law and the lawsuit extend even to the two largest newspapers in the state. An editorial in The Honolulu Star-Bulletin was headlined "Sierra Club's Bid to Wreck Tourism" while The Honolulu Advertiser said that "the Sierra Club petition raises important and crucial points."
In addition, a coalition comprising the 13-member Western States Tourism Policy Council, along with such organizations as the Travel Industry Association of America, the American Hotel and Motel Association, the National Tour Association, the American Bus Association and the National Council of State Tourism Directors, sought to file a brief on behalf of the tourism authority, but it was rejected without explanation. A similar petition by the Hawaii Visitors and Convention Bureau was also rejected.
John Myrdal, the Honolulu lawyer who represented the coalition, said its members joined the suit because "they were concerned that if it was upheld, states' tourism efforts could get bogged down."
The national Sierra Club itself sponsors tours to Hawaii, as part of its 99-year-old Outings Program. Of its 350 worldwide tours last year, Molly Neal, a Sierra Club spokeswoman, said 7 were to Hawaii, with a total of 92 people. This year it will sponsor nine tours to Hawaii.
Asked if there isn't a certain irony in the Sierra Club's promoting such tours while its Hawaii chapter's lawsuit could result in curbing tourism, Mr. Mikulina replied, "There's no comparison between 92 campers a year and 7 million tourists."
The tourism authority plan, unveiled last summer, proposes to entice visitors to stay longer by encouraging more events and activities, Mr. Fishman said. It puts greater emphasis on eco-tourism and hiking and other outdoor experiences.
The Sierra Club suit contends that the tourism authority's plan would increase visitors by about 15 percent by 2005. It also pointed to an independent study that found that a $10 million emergency advertising campaign in 1997 attracted more than 800,000 additional visitors over a two-year period -- almost 500,000 from the mainland, the remainder from Japan.
Because the $114 million earmarked by the tourism authority represents an elevenfold expenditure over the next three years, the Sierra Club argued, its implementation "will result in like increases" in visitors.
Hawaii tourism has been in a prolonged slump, as a report issued last summer by the state's Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism made painfully clear. The reason for the stagnation, the report said, was primarily the weak mainland economy in the first half of the 90's and the Asian economic slump later.
But the report also pointed to the long-term maturing of Hawaii's tourism industry, including high prices in Hawaii, and aging hotels and overbuilding in Honolulu, especially in Waikiki.
Mr. Mikulina said that by trying to protect Hawaii's environment, the Sierra Club is acting in the best interest of the state.
"If the Hawaii Tourism Authority agrees that the natural environment is what makes Hawaii so attractive, then they should have no problem with preparing an environmental assessment so that any adverse impact could be prevented or minimized," he said. "And if the assessment finds there would be no harm to the environment under their plan, we would have no problem with it." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SIERRA CLUB; HAWAII TOURISM AUTHORITY SIERRA CLUB (94%); SUPREME COURT OF HAWAII (84%); SUPREME COURT OF HAWAII (84%); UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB; HAWAII TOURISM AUTHORITY SIERRA CLUB (94%); SUPREME COURT OF HAWAII (84%); SUPREME COURT OF HAWAII (84%); UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII; UNITED STATES (94%); HAWAII, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ENVIRONMENT TOURISM (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PETITIONS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



577 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2304 words

HEADLINE: Just Off Britain, A World Apart

BYLINE: By JOHN A. KINCH; JOHN A. KINCH writes frequently about nature and travel.

 BODY:
THE Manx double-decker's motion lulled me into a near sleep. A half-day ramble earlier through Cregneash on the Isle of Man left me tired, and from my second-deck seat on this hurtling Peel-bound bus, I drifted in and out. Narrow hedgerow-lined roads, tidy fieldstone villages, villagers, schoolchildren, dogs, cars, farms, sheep, cows, green hills and slivers of the Irish Sea blurred until the scenery winked out all together.
This was my third day on the Isle of Man. Before arriving, I knew little about the island, intending to literally learn on my feet as I hiked around. 
 I was not alone in my ignorance. "Off the coast of South America?" one colleague asked before I left the United States. "Is it British?" a friend asked. "It's Manx," I said. "What's Manx?" she asked.
I did know this about the Isle of Man: it was small (33 miles by 13 miles), it was off the northwest coast of England and it was renowned for miles of footpaths along rugged coasts and challenging hills. In June, the twisty rural roads serve as the track for one of the world's foremost motorcycle races, the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy.
Finally, I knew the island produced the domestic Manx cat, a tailless breed, and centuries back may have produced my ancestors as well. My family has long believed our surname to have a Manx origin. Thus, as I got off the Liverpool ferry at Isle of Man's capital, Douglas, on a May night, I felt oddly as if I were coming home.
"Kinch, you say?" said the cabby, on the way to the Stakis Hotel (now the Hilton) on the seaside Victorian Central Promenade. "That's not a Manx name. Kinch. Your Dan Quayle, his grandfather was born down in Santon. Quayle -- that's a Manx name."
I'd recently read that other famous Manx included Miles Standish and the Bee Gees.
"I thought the Bee Gees were Australian," I said to the cabby.
"Manx," he said. "All Manx."
The next morning, I walked around Douglas, where half the island's population of 74,000 live. The town reminded me of Boston with its modern financial district, well-preserved historic buildings and its proximity to the sea.
I caught a narrow-gauge steam train, in operation for 120 years, to the southern coast. As the train chugged away from the platform with an ear-piercing blast, I settled in and looked at my journal where the night before I'd jotted modest plans: footpaths, four-sharp teas, castles, Celts, kippers, B & B's and birding, outdoors and inns.
The morning was a fine one, clear and cool, and the train wended its way along golden gorse-girdled hillsides into lush glens of ferns and lupines and past whistle-stops. Occasionally, I glimpsed the Irish Sea, seal-gray in the distance.
Soon the train arrived in Castletown and I hoisted my backpack and walked the few miles out to the Castletown Golf Links Hotel, a rambling compound of glass and whitewashed buildings on the Langness Peninsula where I'd reserved a stay in a surprisingly spacious room with an adjoining sitting area. From my window, I could see the golf course, one of the best on the island. Against the backdrop of the Irish Sea, it looked dramatic. But I had not come for Mulligans and gimmes, but whimbrels and greenshanks, and soon headed down a coastal path in search of birds.
Almost immediately I came across oystercatchers, one of my favorite birds, cartoonish with their carrot beaks and large heads. I also encountered choughs for the first time -- crowlike birds with red legs and fiery temperaments that have them taking on all other feathered comers.
On that splendid day with temperatures hovering around 70, I saw ruffs, godwits, cormorants, greenshanks, whimbrels, tufted ducks, gannets, gulls, swans, gray herons and little stints. Among the heather and gorse shrubs, I flushed out northern wheatears and dusky, streaked, sparrowlike birds with a musical call -- skylarks.
I was dazzled by the array of wildflowers -- pinks and whites, blues and yellows -- that carpeted the hills. The tufted pink flowers that are most prominent are sea pinks. Feverfew, bird's-foot trefoil, spring quill and heath bedstraw also lend their colors.
I could see far out into the Irish Sea, which is not always so. Dense fog is common given the dynamics of the cold sea and warmer island. The fog, a story goes, protected the Isle of Man from invasion for centuries and was conjured up by the island's mythical founder Manannan. Thus the island's name -- sometimes spelled Mann. That's the case with the Lord of Mann, who today -- gender aside -- is Queen Elizabeth.
Celts showed up on the island around 500 B.C. with the wayward Vikings appearing at the end of the eighth century A.D. The two cultures melded over the centuries with the English, Scottish and Irish skirmishing among themselves and the natives during the Middle Ages. In 1765 the British Crown bought the island in an attempt to stop a thriving international smuggling trade. Today, the Isle of Man is a thriving offshore international banking center. While the island is not part of Britain, it is a British Crown Dependency and relies on Britain to defend it and act on its behalf in international matters.
From the Langness Peninsula that afternoon I could see Castle Rushen, an imposing medieval fortress that once defended Castletown, the ancient capital. This neat-as-a-pin town has several pubs. I settle on The Viking for dinner that evening.
The Viking was busy, with only one table available near the fire. A waitress delivered a pint as I looked over the specials that night: Evening Dinner or Little Bites. I chose from the regular menu, picking the savory sausage with jacket potato over the vegetable spring rolls ("suitable for vegetarians"), tuna and peach salad and the ever-present bacon sandwich.
After dinner, I walked the several miles back to the golf links along the low-tide beach. In the descending night the well-lighted hotel is beaconlike in the distance. Before me quick-winged birds scattered silently in the dusk.
The next morning I caught the train to Cregneash. Green and rolling, it is one of the most beautiful spots on the island, terminating at the Calf Sound and a dollop of an island a half-mile offshore known as the Calf of Man ("Calf" derives from the Scandinavian "kalfr" and means a small island lying near a larger one.)
After visiting Cregneash, a charming, restored farm village of 300-year-old cottages with whitewashed walls and thatched roofs, I walked east toward the Chasms on the coast where huge colonies of seabirds purportedly nest. Up the road, I met a shepherd, Ian Kelly, repairing a fence. His pair of Border collies lay in the grass nearby.
I asked him if knew of any Kinches on the island. "Kinnish," he said. "But I'm afraid no Kinches. Not that I've heard of."
I didn't hear the birds until I reached the edge of the Chasms. But there, the cries of kittiwakes, gulls and guillemots engulfed me. Thousands, if not tens of thousands, of birds were aloft and tucked into the cliff crevices.
The black guillemots bobbed in the sea 500 feet below me and as far as I could see. The white gulls and kittiwakes spiraled in flight against the dark water, resembling wisps of cream stirred into coffee. I leaned farther over, rapt. I could have lingered there, with the sea view and the birds, but instead I had to hustle to get to the Calf Sound Cafe for a late lunch.
I double-stepped it along the footpath. I wished I could have triple-stepped it, in honor of the symbol of the Isle of Man -- the Three Legs of Mann, in a kind of propeller arrangement. The Latin motto that accompanies the symbol translates into "Whichever way you throw, it will stand."
I crested the hill and saw the Calf of Man and the sound below me -- as sweepingly beautiful a sight as any I've seen.
At the cafe, which had the feel of a weathered boathouse, I lunched on a sandwich of locally caught crab and a fresh cream scone with strawberries. Groups of tourists at water's edge pointed to harbor seals in the sound; other tourists sat at tables in the hot sun and drank tea.
A waitress refilled a water bowl for dogs at the cafe's entrance, while Terry Jackson, the proprietor, told me about King Arthur. A student of English and Manx history, Terry believed that Arthurian chronicles indicate that the Isle of Man was Avalon, Arthur's island heaven. I sat outside at the cafe for an hour in the sunshine, had tea myself, and a second fresh cream scone and thought that while this may not in fact be Avalon, you could see it from here.
I traveled to Peel on the careering double-decker late that afternoon. The next morning at the Merchant's House, a pleasant B & B in a Georgian row house run by Helen and John Slater, I awoke to see a Manx cat outside my second-story window. In their snug kitchen, which opened onto an inviting backyard garden, Helen told me that the cat was semi-wild and did not belong to them. Seizing the opening, I told her and John that I may have Manx ancestors.
"We get many Americans looking for their roots," Helen said, while John, chair of the Peel Heritage Trust, dialed the phone. He introduced me on the phone to Leslie Quilliam, a Peel resident and author of "Surnames of the Manx." I hesitated to ask my question, given the disappointing responses thus far.
"Kinch is Manx," Mr. Quilliam told me; he explained that the Manx surnames Creetch, Kennish and Kinnish are all related, derived from the Gaelic MacAonghuis. Kinch, he said, is a likely spelling variation of Kennish or Kinnish, appearing sometime in the early 17th century, perpetuated by a clerk in a parish record on one particular afternoon. "The same clerk the next afternoon might spell the name entirely differently," he said.
The rest of the day I spent touring the House of Manannan -- a historical museum housing a collection of Manx artifacts, including a two-thirds scale model of a Viking long ship -- and the nearby Peel Castle, a 13th-century fortress with foot-thick stone walls.
Later, at the Creek Inn on East Quay, I ate a platter of smoked herring (or kippers) for lunch. The owner, Robert McAleer, told me he was a descendant of medieval Manx royalty.
That evening I took the bus from Peel into Douglas for my last night. I met some young professionals in the banking business at The Bridge Pub. They told me that unemployment was nearly nonexistent here, that wages were competitive with those in England, and that many Manx who went away to college returned one day and lots of "come-overs" from Britain stayed for good. "People have a genuine affection for the island and a pride in being Manx," said Jenny Dunham, a come-over. "They aren't isolated or quirky, but worldly people who live here because it's a good life."
Later I walked along the glowing Promenade with other tourists and locals. The horse-drawn trams were full, as were the restaurants and the souvenir shops. The Gaiety Theater's production of "Hot Mikado" had just started. The 9:30 ferry was to dock soon. Another gentle day had passed. I found an empty bench along the beach, and looked out onto the sea.
 
Tracking down the Manx
 
Getting There
The Isle of Man can be reached by ferry or air out of England and Ireland. For ferry information, call the Isle of Man Steam Packet Company at (44-8705) 523 523 or call up www.steam-packet.com. Reservations need to be made at least 24 hours ahead; round-trip fare from Liverpool is $71.50 to $82.60, at $1.59 to a pound. The crossing takes two and a half hours by high-speed ferry.
Manx Airlines, (44-345) 256 256, flies regularly from points throughout the British Isles, including London and Dublin. Round-trip fares from Heathrow to Castletown are as low as $189 if booked early.
 
Getting Around
You can rent a car in Douglas, but the railway network and rural buses can take you almost anywhere on this small island economically. A five-day adult pass is $42.
You can save even more by walking. Hundreds of miles of footpaths crisscross the island. Detailed hiking maps and other information are available through the Isle of Man Department of Tourism and Leisure, (44-1624) 686 801, or e-mail tourism
@gov.im.
 
Sightseeing
Douglas's two-mile-long Promenade harks back to the last century with horse trams and Victorian buildings. Douglas also has a casino, a charming shopping district, live theater, several museums and the island's only cybercafe, the Cyberia on the North Quay.
Castletown has an imposing castle and a premier birding spot, the Langness Peninsula.
Admission to Peel Castle is $5, $2.50 for children. At the House of Manannan, it is $8, $4 child. For information on either one, call (44-1624) 648 000.
The Calf of Man, a bird sanctuary reachable in summer by boat from Port Erin (there are no facilities on the island), and an inexpensive cafe are at the tip of Cregneash.
 
Lodging
The Sefton Hotel, Harris Promenade, Douglas, is a restored Victorian hotel with comfortable rooms from $103 for a single, $130 doubles; telephone (44-1624) 645 500, fax (44-1624) 676 004.
The Hilton Hotel (formerly the Stakis), Central Promenade, Douglas, offers modern rooms from $90 single, $133 double; (44-1624) 682 771, fax (44-1624) 625 535.
The Castletown Golf Links Hotel, Derbyhaven, has spacious, innlike rooms for $103 single and $127 double; (44-1624) 822 201, fax (44-1624) 824 633.
The Merchant's House, Peel, is a friendly, tidy guest house; rates are $35 a person with private bath; telephone and fax (44-1624) 842 541.
 
Food
For dinner or lunch, try the local favorite: Manx kippers at around $10 a plate.
Entrees in the restaurant at the Viking Hotel, Station Road, Castletown, (44-1624) 823 656, start at $8. At the Creek Inn, East Quay, Peel, (44-1624) 842 216, entrees begin at $8.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 120-year-old steam train that operates between Douglas and Port Erin. Sea pinks on the Langness Peninsula on the Isle of Man. (Photographs by John A. Kinch)(pg. 8); Ian Kelly, a shepherd, repairing a fence as two assistants look on. Peel Castle, on the island's western coast, traces its origins to the 13th century. Its stone walls are a foot thick. Part of the island's extensive network of hiking paths. (Photographs by John A. Kinch)(pg. 9); A view from the Castletown Golf Links Hotel on the Langness Peninsula. (John A. Kinch)(pg. 18)
 
Map of Isle of Man and sorrouding areas. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISLE OF MAN (98%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (71%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); 

CITY: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISLE OF MAN; ISLE OF MAN (98%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (71%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES CATS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); HIKING (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); SHEEP FARMING (71%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (67%); TRAINS (63%); MAMMALS (56%); 

PERSON: KINCH, JOHN A

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



578 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 75; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3407 words

HEADLINE: Between Rock and a Hard Drive

BYLINE: By Rob Walker; Rob Walker is a contributing writer for Money and Slate.

 BODY:
The $40 billion music business stands at a crossroads. New technology is about to reconfigure the industry. Perhaps this technology will, as some onlookers contend, wipe out the record companies. Or perhaps these companies will shape the new technology, with spectacularly profitable results. Either way, it could be the biggest thing to hit the music business since rock itself. But it is early yet, and figuring how it will play out is like trying to extrapolate "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" from "Love Me Do."
For this reason I have invited Rob Glaser to go shopping. So here he is at the Tower Records near downtown Seattle on a Saturday afternoon, talking music and thinking, he hopes, like any other consumer. I have been told that Glaser, who is the 38-year-old billionaire founder of a technology company called RealNetworks, is likely to be an important figure in the future of the music business. Because I am trying to understand how that can be true, I suggested that we take a trip to the record store together. Maybe in this setting we can begin a discussion of how computer technology might change the record industry, or vice versa, without immediately resorting to words like "convergence." 
 Glaser picks up a Clash best-of disc. Before long, he believes, the best way to own music will not be on a physical CD, but in the form of a digital computer file, downloaded from the Internet. This ought to be a big opportunity for the record companies, he says. Their catalogs will be worth more than ever. They can cleverly package up all sorts of virtual anthologies: everyone knows the Clash is an essential band, for instance, so everyone will want the Clash in his digital jukebox: "This, to me, is a no-brainer," Glaser says. Now we're standing in front of a mass of Beatles discs. "Wouldn't you pay, say, $5 a month for access to the entire Beatles catalog?"
I don't know if I would or not. I don't know if most consumers would or not. But Glaser seems pretty confident. He makes it all sound self-evident. And very exciting. He's talking a mile a minute. In blue jeans and a stylish leather jacket, he could be any other music nut out to blow some money on a fine weekend day. "What about these guys?" he asks, pointing at a Rage Against the Machine CD. "Do you think they're for real?" He laments the lost promise of a local band called the Posies. He talks about being in the crowd at the memorial service for Kurt Cobain: "It was so surreal."
Before people started telling me that Glaser is likely to be an important figure in the future of the music business, I had never heard of him. There are so many technology billionaires now, and all of them seem to be doing something that is supposed to change the world. Glaser, I learned, is widely seen in technology circles as a key Internet innovator -- the man who, as Robert H. Reid put it in the book "Architects of the Web," "broke the Web's sound barrier." Still, he is not a name-brand C.E.O. like Sumner Redstone, Bill Gates or Jeff Bezos.
When the people at the upper echelons of the recording industry first got to know Glaser and understand what he was up to, they were suspicious. But a newer crop of tech upstarts have ideas that seem even more threatening, and suddenly Glaser seems like more of an ally -- though you get the sense at times that the alliance is a grudging one. "I think that Rob is unique," says Edgar Bronfman, who met Glaser for the first time last September, when the two began hashing out an alliance between RealNetworks and Universal Music Group. "He was familiar with our business in a way that a lot of technology companies are not. He understands that the technology is ultimately an enabler." In a sense then, Bronfman's praise is predicated on the notion that technology takes a backseat in the music business. But Glaser's bet is that an "enabler" is becoming an increasingly powerful thing to be.
The format in which music can be sold has changed many times since the birth of recording. Music was first recorded on wax cylinders, then on vinyl records. After that came tape-based formats -- reel to reel, 8-tracks, cassettes -- but vinyl was the dominant format for most of the postwar era. When CD's came along, part of the selling point was greater audio quality that did not deteriorate over time the way records and tapes can. Enough people were convinced of the superiority of CD sound that they were willing to buy not only new releases on CD, but also CD versions of their favorite vinyl albums. This, needless to say, was a huge windfall for the recording industry.
As a rule, however, the recording industry is notorious for dragging its feet when faced with innovation of any sort -- technological or artistic. The big record companies famously fought the introduction of digital audio tape, which would have allowed consumers to tape CD's without losing audio quality. The fear was that people would make "pirate" copies of their friends' CD's. The recording industry engineered a lengthy battle over slapping a surcharge on these digital tapes, and the format eventually petered out.
The more recent round of trouble for the recording industry began on college campuses. The troublemakers' first step was figuring out how to get music, in perfect digital form, from a compact disc into a computer hard drive. This seemed harmless enough -- who wants to listen to music on a computer? What'll those kids think of next?
At first, dealing with music in a digital format was very difficult -- the files were impractically huge, and most computers couldn't handle them. The trick was converting the music into compressed formats that make the files easier to deal with. MP3 is the name of such a format. One thing MP3 did was enable upstart bands to post songs on Web sites, in hopes of building an audience. Another thing it enabled was the posting by college kids of their music collections on Web sites for anyone in the world to download, free. Sites offering, say, all the music on the new Pearl Jam CD in the digital MP3 format, at no charge, sprang up all over the Internet. What those kids had thought of next was how much easier it is, with digital music files, to give your music collection -- in pristine, digital audio quality -- to all of your friends. This became a craze; soon "MP3" was as popular a term in Internet searches as "sex."
So here was the biggest music trend since grunge, and the big record companies (and their artists) were receiving $0 as a result. Top executives at those record companies were aghast. Top executives at Rob Glaser's RealNetworks, however, were intrigued.
Realnetworks has a short but curious history. Today, its headquarters take up four floors of a building on Elliott Avenue in Seattle, with pleasing views of Puget Sound. The company has 800 employees, 1999 revenues of $131 million and a recent market cap near $10 billion. There are touches of ragged indie-ness, pierced faces, dyed hair, dozens of Mountain Dew cans stacked in some guy's windowless office, an airy cafeteria stocked with Ping-Pong, pool and foosball, plus two regulation bowling lanes in the basement. But the overwhelming impression is of cookie-cutter cubicles, neat carpeting, standardized furniture and offices with big windows for people who make more money than Mountain Dew guy.
Glaser grew up in Yonkers, the son of a printing shop owner and his social worker wife. At Yale, he wrote a left-wing column for the school paper and earned three degrees in four years, concentrating on computer science and economics. After graduation, he headed west to work for a somewhat obscure company called Microsoft. Glaser figured he would stay a few years and move on.
He stayed a decade. When he left in 1993 -- 31 years old, a millionaire several times over -- he hooked up with David Halperin, a college pal who had gone to work on Capitol Hill. Together they hatched a vague, but very large, dream. "The original idea was to try to exploit what we saw as a convergence of technology, culture and politics," says Halperin, now a national security aide to President Clinton, "a version of a Fox or a Disney that would be more politically progressive and more culturally adventurous." They called the venture Progressive Networks.
Part of the Progressive Networks bag of tricks was software that made it possible to broadcast sound over the Internet. This now seems mundane, but at the time -- when the Internet was mostly clunky text -- it was astonishing to be able to listen to a Seattle Mariners baseball game on a computer in Washington, D.C. The idea of grafting sound and perhaps images onto the Internet's limitless reach captivated everyone Glaser and Halperin talked to. Naturally, the investment crowd was more interested in the technology than in a leftish media venture, but even the wonks urged Glaser and Halperin to build a business around the software and support progressive causes with the profits. (The company actually has profits now, and 5 percent goes to charity.) As the focus shifted, Halperin bowed out; Glaser soon presided over the debut of a technology called RealAudio.
Despite my previous ignorance of Glaser, I had used his company's software many times since it made its debut on April 10, 1995. It has long since become commonplace to be able to hear snippets of songs from CD's sold on Web sites like Amazon.com: click on the song title and the playback occurs in RealAudio. Similarly, many radio stations began making their broadcasts available in RealAudio. I used to use software called RealPlayer to listen to Houston Astros games from my home computer in Manhattan. The underlying technology is called streaming audio, and it is what Real rode to prominence.
The basic software is free -- you just download it. Various generations of the increasingly sophisticated RealPlayer have been downloaded about 100 million times. The company's business model has evolved almost constantly; it currently sells souped-up versions of its software, but gets most of its revenue from corporate clients that pay licensing fees to use the software on their internal networks.
Glaser's company dropped "progressive" from its name in 1997. Software companies tend to be apolitical, and software itself, of course, is not supposed to make value judgments. Which was perhaps the right frame of mind to be in when MP3 came along.
Before MP3, the music business regarded the whole notion of distributing music over the Internet as basically a distraction. Most labels had "new media" divisions of one sort or another, but the predominant view was that the Internet had nothing to do with them. "They looked at what we were doing, on average, with a kind of amused indifference," Glaser recalls. "I mean, if we ever spent time with them at all."
As early as 1997, Glaser had sketched a vision of using the Web to create a sort of ultimate music distribution system; everyone would have his own personal digital jukebox, linked to the Internet. Two things stood in the way. For starters, it wasn't then possible to download music files and save them onto a computer. This is what MP3 made possible, and to Glaser's crew at RealNetworks, it looked an awful lot like a genie leaving a bottle. "Here was a format that kind of emerged in the grass roots," Glaser says, "that was doing something that no legitimate company could do." No legitimate company could do this because of obstacle No. 2: the big record companies, which hold the rights to most of the music that people want to listen to. The companies were pretty happy with the current system of people going to stores and buying CD's.
But then a bunch of people started making software that played MP3 files, and Web sites sprang up to offer music in this format. That's when the record companies began to figure out what a huge problem they had on their hands. The stuff that was posted legitimately -- the latest offering, let's say, from an unsigned garage band in Kansas -- was not something a lot of people wanted to listen to. But people did want to listen to that new Pearl Jam release, even if it meant downloading it illegally. This was the grand divide: on one side the legit but unwanted, on the other side the illegit but wildly popular. Glaser and his crew began wondering how to make a product that was in the middle -- a player that had broad consumer appeal but wasn't blatantly designed for criminal activity.
Glaser's epiphany was this: while it might be illegal to download a Pearl Jam CD, you could legally digitize your own CD collection for your own personal use (it's called "ripping"), just as you might make tapes. So how about software that, in effect, digitally organizes your music: the stuff you have on CD, plus whatever you download from the Web, legally or illegally (that's up to you). There were already programs that did variations of this, but Real cooked up a user-friendly package called RealJukebox. The thinking was that eventually the record companies would get all their material online, and by that time, RealJukebox would be the dominant software. People would have already ripped their collection of 200 CD's, and that wasn't something they would want to do again. And with RealJukebox, they could organize their music, sort it, mix it up however they want; they could dump selections onto portable players like the Diamond Rio, and go jogging. I did all of this myself -- except the jogging, of course -- and as a music fan, I can see what is cool about this technology.
The debut of RealJukebox was scheduled for May 1999, and although the record companies were still terrified of piracy, Glaser decided that RealJukebox would be compatible with MP3 files. This was a tactically dangerous, but crucial move. "We knew that the labels had this view that anything that supported MP3 was the devil incarnate," he says. He went ahead anyway, figuring that if Real came out with a product that did not support MP3, the kids who were out there leading this revolution would never use it. Record-industry officials were invited to see demos of the new software shortly before the launch -- and the response was often tense. Mark Hall, a Real vice president, remembers an hourlong meeting in Seattle with Sony, a company with whom Real had built a close relationship. "There was a lot of disappointment in that room," he recalls.
The labels complained that the software, among other things, made it easy to send e-mail copies of a CD you just bought to everyone you know. Real fiddled with the software to make it harder, though not impossible, to make copies, and the labels were more or less placated. "They changed their approach," says Al Smith, Sony's top executive on digital distribution. "Real got the message that we would not support insecure music."
But Glaser may have wound up in a better position than ever, partly because new and more menacing villains have emerged. One is Napster, an MP3 swapping site that is, in the eyes of the record companies, the equivalent of a vast flea market of stolen goods. Napster, which has become so popular that many colleges have banned its use because the traffic was slowing down their Internet servers, makes it incredibly easy to download the Beatles catalog for no charge at all. That it's illegal hasn't proved to be much of a deterrent. Maybe that's because people have bought the music in previous formats, because they see record companies as evil fat cats who don't need the money or because they just don't care.
The other threat is MP3.com, whose latest innovation is a database of 80,000 popular CD's that its subscribers can access. The record companies, via the Recording Industry Association of America, promptly filed a lawsuit saying that their intellectual property was being trampled, and that MP3.com had copied thousands of CD's for commercial use without remunerating anyone. (In an act of impressive chutzpah, MP3.com turned around and sued the R.I.A.A. right back, for defamation.) The R.I.A.A. has also sued Napster.
All of this is, indirectly, good news for RealNetworks. "We went from being I wouldn't say outlaws, but renegades," Glaser says, to having his first face to face with Bronfman. In April, BMG announced it will be making some of its catalog available for sale digitally by June, and Universal is following suit. There are few details now, and the record companies are using several different security formats, but Real says its software will be compatible with all of them.
Glaser says he believes the labels have finally grasped the urgency of the situation. The rise of Napster, he wrote to me in March, is "a cautionary tale as to what can happen if the labels don't move quickly enough." He's optimistic about what will happen once the labels truly jump into the fray, but he said: "It's fair to say that the clock is ticking. The likes of Napster mean that it's ticking louder than ever, by implicitly training a whole generation of kids that music is something you get, not buy."
There's a scene in "The Mansion On The Hill," fred goodman's 1997 book about the convergence of rock music and big business, that brings to life just what an uneasy fit this was. The year is 1967, and Warner Brothers Records has just signed the Grateful Dead. In a break between sets at Fugazi Hall in San Francisco's North Beach, a Warner executive, dressed in a blue blazer with a company emblem on the pocket, approaches the microphone. "I just want to say what an honor it is," he says, "for Warner Brothers Records to be able to introduce the Grateful Dead to the world." Jerry Garcia gives him a long, skeptical look, and takes his turn: "I just want to say what an honor it is," he says, "for the Grateful Dead to introduce Warner Brothers Records to the world."
A similar moment is at hand. This time, though, the record industry's problems have less to do with the radical ethos of artists than the radical ethos of tech entrepreneurs. So far, practically all the players in the digital-music scramble have emphasized that their plans are in the best interests of protecting the creative rights of artists -- the biggest labels say it, and so do self-styled rebels like MP3.com. But neither the record labels nor the upstart tech companies were founded to protect artists. They were founded to make money, the same timeless elixir that brought together the Dead and Warners in the 1960's. And fans who exult in sticking it to the record companies by downloading unauthorized MP3's conveniently overlook the fact that they are sticking it to their favorite artists as well.
So will the music business shape the technology? Or will technology reshape the music business? The answer will most likely be somewhere in the middle, which is where Glaser has tried to keep his company. Throughout his career, he has shown a knack for finding his way to the right place, from his stint at Microsoft, to ditching his original alternative media vision in favor of the streaming technology, then making the needed tweaks to Real's software to win over the record companies. That kind of restless adaptability may be the single talent that separates the high-tech moguls from the high-tech dreamers.
Perhaps not surprisingly, RealNetworks' most fearsome threat is Glaser's alma mater Microsoft, with which he has a stormy relationship. Microsoft plans to release an updated jukebox version of its Media Player this summer and has positioned itself as a less overbearing partner for record companies than Real. But Glaser is convinced that it is consumers, not the content companies, who will ultimately decide the platform on which the digital-music ecosystem will develop. That means that his company now must represent itself to consumers as something bigger than a software company -- an evolutionary step that is likely to prove challenging.
That day at Tower, it took the better part of an hour for us to wind our way through both the CD's and DVD's. By the time Glaser arrived at the cash register, he had a huge pile of old media, the very products that his own company is pushing toward obsolescence. But that's the thing about Glaser -- he's not just a high-tech ideologue. He's keeping his options open. He is well aware that, in technology as in rock 'n' roll, being an innovator does not guarantee long-term success. Just ask the Posies.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Jeff Riedel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REALNETWORKS INC REALNETWORKS INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: REALNETWORKS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) MUSIC INDUSTRY (93%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MUSIC STORES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: WALKER, ROB; GLASER, ROB ROB GLASER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



579 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 68; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 5871 words

HEADLINE: 'You Are Going to El Norte'

BYLINE: By Mirta Ojito; Mirta Ojito is a metro reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
The police came just as i sat down to lunch: a plain yogurt (sweetened with several spoonfuls of sugar), two fried eggs with a little ketchup and fried sweet plantains. I was wearing half of my school uniform. That is, I had on the painstakingly ironed navy blue skirt with the two white stripes, signaling that I was in the 11th grade. On top, I wore a girl's house dress, a bata de casa, to avoid staining my starched white poplin blouse.
I heard their steps on the stairs. Heavy, loud steps. I could tell there were two men and a large woman. The woman was easy. She was our downstairs neighbor and the president of the neighborhood watchdog committee. Years of listening to people climb the 20 polished steps that led to our apartment had trained my ear for the idiosyncrasies of the feet. The men were agile and in charge. They skipped several steps and got to the door before I could call for my mother. 
 A knock. On the red plastic clock above the television set it was 15 minutes after 11 in the morning on May 7, 1980. I looked at my mother, who was just coming out of the bedroom, where she had been sewing a dress for a client. I waited for a signal from her. She had been waiting for this knock a long time; I had been waiting only for the past 14 days.
It had all started early in the morning on April 24, when I woke to the sound of crying. Someone was standing at the foot of my bed.
"Que pasa?" I asked, in a panic.
It was Aunt Magda, my mother's sister. She lived in Guanabacoa, a neighborhood across Havana Bay, much too far from our Santos Suarez apartment for her visit to be casual. It was still dark out. My sister, who was 11, slept soundly next to me. We had shared the old burgundy sleeping couch in the living room since she had left the crib. I was 16 years old.
"You are going to El Norte," my aunt sobbed. My mother joined her at my bedside.
I could hear them, but I could not see them clearly. The day before, an ophthalmologist had given me slow-acting drops to dilate my pupils in preparation for an eye exam, which I was to have that morning. So that's how I awoke the day I learned I was leaving Cuba -- frightened, confused and blinded by my very large pupils.
I had always known my family would leave Cuba, but I figured we would do it in style, wearing nice winter clothes, tearfully bidding farewell to the island from the little square windows of an Iberia Airlines plane. For years my mother even kept a piece of hot pink wool cloth to make me a skirt and short blazer when the time came.
Back then we assumed that every city north of Cuba was cold and snowy. That is how it looked in the pictures my uncle regularly sent from New York and Connecticut in the 1970's. His children playing in the snow. He and his wife bundled up in wool and wrapped in thick, hairy scarves. The whole family against a backdrop of tall, dark buildings, snow piled up around them.
But our careful plans were derailed in the summer of 1980, when we became 4 of the 125,266 Cubans that in a span of five months left Cuba for the United States in what came to be known as the Mariel boat lift.
The boat lift, a chaotic and incomprehensible event then and now to most Americans and to many Cubans, convulsed the island. It remains one of the landmark events in Cuban history, the first indication that Fidel Castro's carefully controlled social experiment had developed deep fissures. It also changed the dynamics of immigration between the United States and Cuba, introducing the possibility of deportation and forever tainting the image of Cuban refugees. And it further undermined President Jimmy Carter's faltering image, contributing to his devastating loss in the elections later that year.
In the political dialogue of the two countries, Mariel remains a point of reference that is much abused. In Washington, lawmakers talk about never allowing another Mariel; in Havana, officials know they can always play their Mariel card -- the threat of unleashing millions of desperate people living only a short boat ride away.
For my family, ignorant of cold war politics and immigration agreements, Mariel was simply a way out, one that my parents had been awaiting a long time. In October 1962, three years after Fidel Castro came to power, they rushed their wedding date to follow my father's family to the United States. But the Cuban missile crisis erupted, dampening the first week of their honeymoon and later, when Washington stopped issuing visas to Cubans, destroying their dreams.
We lived in a one-bedroom apartment that, when I returned for a visit two years ago, seemed even smaller than I remembered. For years we endured food shortages, constant blackouts, the stigma of communicating with relatives living in the United States and, worse, the scorn of people who criticized my parents for taking their children to church and for not thrusting themselves into the revolutionary "project."
Yet, I felt somehow connected to the ideals of the revolution that my parents quietly rejected. As much as a child could, I immersed myself in the project of building a better, more egalitarian Cuba. I was a model Communist Pioneer and probably would have become an enthusiastic member of the Communist Youth if the government itself had not created the conditions to open my eyes -- and those of my generation -- to a new reality.
In 1978, looking to score points with the exile community and the Carter administration (which centered its foreign policy on human rights), Havana suddenly announced the release of hundreds of political prisoners and invited Cuban exiles to visit the island. It was the first time the gusanos, or worms, as we had been taught to call everyone who had "deserted the revolution," were allowed back.
It is hard to overestimate the impact of these policy changes. The government had always claimed that there were no political prisoners in its jails, only terrorists. But here was shocking proof of people being imprisoned simply for disagreeing with the regime. Families -- including mine -- were reunited for the first time in years. Dollars poured in. Overnight, gusanos became mariposas, butterflies. Meeting my family from America, seeing that they were nice people and not traitors, and hearing their stories of hard work and long days -- but also great rewards -- marked a turning point in my life. Disappointed with the lies and hypocrisies of the regime and tired of seeing my parents work and struggle in vain, I told my father I was ready to go with him to the United States when the time came.
Still, nothing could fully prepare me for Mariel. On April 1, 1980, a 31-year-old unemployed driver named Hector Sanyustiz and five of his friends and relatives crashed a borrowed bus through the gates of the Peruvian Embassy in Havana's exclusive Miramar neighborhood. Cuban soldiers guarding the embassy opened fire, wounding Sanyustiz and one of his friends. In the shower of bullets, one Cuban guard was killed.
Angry, Castro ordered the guards removed. As word spread through Cuba that the gates of the embassy were open and unguarded, hundreds, and later thousands, of people flocked to the embassy seeking asylum. Three days later the gates finally closed on a crowd of 10,856 people.
Peru refused to take all the refugees. Embarrassed, Castro needed a plan. Fast. Exactly how the idea of Mariel was concocted is a matter of some debate. American officials said Castro planned it all along. But a Cuban exile named Napoleon Vilaboa says he gave Castro the idea. In Miami, where many people believe Vilaboa was a Cuban intelligence agent -- an accusation he denies -- he is still known as the father of Mariel. Vilaboa, who was in Cuba in 1980 to try to speed the release of a small group of political prisoners, says he told Castro that he should consider another "Camarioca," a reference to the 1965 boat lift that took more than 3,000 refugees to the United States. "But I also told him that he should open it to everybody, because exiles would not return only for the 10,000 in the embassy."
Vilaboa says Castro liked the idea and asked many questions about the logistics. Vilaboa returned to Miami and, in a few days, received a phone call from Cuba giving him the go-ahead. The chosen port was Mariel, a harbor on the northern coast of Cuba, about 20 miles west of Havana.
On April 19, Vilaboa sailed for Cuba, leading a flotilla of 42 boats.
Three days later a brief story in Granma, the government newspaper, touched off a sensation in Havana. It dryly announced that two boats from Miami had gone to Cuba to pick up refugees as well as relatives of the boat owners. When my father read the story, he rushed home and, clutching the paper, stormed into the bedroom, where my mother was bent over her sewing machine. "This is it," he told her. It was about 3 p.m. The next day, while my sister and I slept, they left to call his brother Oswaldo in Miami to ask him to get us out of the country.
To their surprise, by the time they arrived at the telephone company on the evening of April 23, there was a long line of desperate Cubans clutching the same copy of the paper. When my father's turn came, nobody answered the telephone at my uncle's house. My father then called one of his sisters. "The reason you couldn't reach him," she said, "is because he has already left to get you."
Oswaldo, then 42, was an accountant, a husband and the father of two boys. He had just moved to Hialeah, Fla., a suburb of Miami, from New York. He was, and remains, cautious, measured, a man of few passions other than his family and gardening. He had never been in a boat before. He hardly knew how to swim. Yet, when a neighbor told him that he was heading for the Miami River to charter a boat to go to Cuba, my uncle, without hesitation, joined him.
Accompanied by 10 other Cubans and the owner of an old, raggedy lobster boat called the Valley Chief, they left on a Thursday at dusk. Oswaldo had packed a bag with canned sardines, some fruit and two changes of clothes, thinking he would return with us to America the next day. But 16 days would pass before he could see us and 3 more before he could take a shower or brush his teeth again.
When my parents heard that my uncle had already left, they rushed to my aunt's house to tell her the news. She came over before dawn to say goodbye. And that's when I woke up, with the sounds of her sobs at the foot of my bed.
And I thought, Today is the day I leave Cuba. It wasn't. We stayed in our home for 13 more tension-filled days.
Mariel marked the first time socialist Cuba turned against itself. The government staged riots called actos de repudio -- street rallies in which neighbors turned against neighbors, harassing and tormenting those who wanted to leave the country. The victims were often pelted with rocks, tomatoes and eggs. Windows were shattered. Doors were knocked down. Some people were killed, dragged through the streets as trophies to intolerance and hate. Sometimes people trapped inside their homes chose to kill themselves rather than face their tormentors.
We had to tread carefully. We could not tell anyone we were leaving, or change our behavior in any way. We could not say a word against the acts of repudiation for fear of raising suspicions of our own intentions. It was the first time I felt fear in my own country, in my own home. I knew then that it was time to leave.
And I thought I was ready on May 7, the morning I heard the knock on the door and looked to my mother for a sign of what to do.
We approached the door, but did not move to open it. Then our neighbor spoke. "Mirta," she called out to my mother. "Open up. It's the police. You are leaving." My mother opened the door, and in walked a burly, unshaven officer, dressed in olive green pants and a white T-shirt. Without introducing himself, he read our names out loud: Orestes Maximino Ojito Denis, Mirta Hilaria Munoz Quintana, Mirta Arely Ojito Munoz and Mabel Ojito Munoz.
"Are these the names of the people who live here?" he asked. My mother, who had started to shake, whispered, "Yes." He told us what we already knew, that my uncle was at the harbor and that we were leaving. He also said he needed to take an inventory of the house, which meant everything we owned was now the property of the government.
My mother told him that my father had just left for work. If they hurried, she added, they could probably still find him at the bus stop. My sister was in school. The family had to be gathered and readied.
He gave us 10 minutes. One officer went with my mother to find my father. The burly one stayed behind, poking into every drawer, cabinet and shelf in the house. I went to the bathroom to change while our neighbor stood by the door, taking her own silent inventory of our possessions.
As I gathered what I wanted to take with me -- a tear-smeared handkerchief, a dry rose, a picture, a letter, a small calendar with a picture of Varadero Beach, a chocolate-colored lipstick and two pens (which my uncle had brought from the United States the year before) -- I overheard an exchange between the lead officer and our neighbor.
"Why don't you call the other neighbors and arrange something for these people?" he asked her. He was talking about one of the acts of repudiation we had so far been spared.
Our neighbor, a woman who had fought with Castro's guerrillas in the Sierra Maestra, held the rank of lieutenant and was married to an army colonel who had been trained in the Soviet Union. "Nobody touches this family," she hissed at the officer, looking him straight in the eye. "I've seen these kids grow up."
After identifying herself, she ordered: "Get me their pictures from the wall. I want to keep them." She wanted our baby pictures. Later, when the officer wasn't looking, she took the portable Soviet radio my parents had given me for my 16th birthday and hid it underneath her grease-stained housedress.
By then my mother and the other officer had found my father, who went to fetch my sister from school. My mother, returning to the house alone, cried all the way and, faint with emotion, fell on the steps that led to the apartment. Neighbors who rushed to help her found out what was happening. The small apartment soon filled with friends. To the officers' astonishment, the house had a festive atmosphere, sprinkled with a few tears.
I stood on the balcony alone and said a mental goodbye to my house, to my block, my friends, the view. I could see Dulce, the old lady in the corner house, hushing her dogs; Natalia, from across the street, sweeping her wrap-around terrace; two men talking under the street lamp. Everything looked normal. Can't they hear my heart, sense my pain, feel my sadness?
And then, suddenly, my mother called. It was time to go.
I took one last look at my old life. The lunch untouched on the table. My schoolbooks on top of a shelf in the bedroom, where I always left them, away from my little sister's prying fingers. My dolls carefully arranged on top of the dresser, my underwear neatly folded in the second drawer. My parents' 72-piece rainbow-colored wedding china inside a cabinet. Pictures on the walls, our baby clothes boxed on a shelf, dirty clothes in the hamper, dry linen hanging in the patio.
Nobody took the keys.
In the early afternoon we arrived at a place called Fontan. Once a private beach club, it had been taken over by the government, and it showed -- peeling paint, broken pathways, untended gardens. The ocean was in the backyard. Thousands of people crowded on the sand, waiting. For what, we did not know. Where was our boat? Where was my uncle Oswaldo? Sometime during the evening they called our names, and this is how we learned which boat would take us to the United States. From then on the Valley Chief became our new identity.
We formed lines by boat names. In our group there were about 20 people. If a sociologist had wanted an accurate sample of who was leaving Cuba in 1980, our group would have been a good one. We were young, old, professionals, truck and bus drivers, students, homemakers, accountants, gay and straight.
By nightfall the realization that I was leaving Cuba hit me with great force. I suddenly had the urge to call my friends. I wanted someone, besides my parents, to know what was happening to me. I searched in vain for a telephone. Then it occurred to me to go outside the compound to a pay phone. Somehow I convinced my mother that I would be forever miserable if I did not make that call.
Amazingly, she obliged and offered to go with me. Without a pass, or a passport for that matter, we walked out of Fontan, leaving my father and sister behind and risking getting separated. But we were lucky. An enraged mob did not let us go very far.
The street was clogged with demonstrators shouting revolutionary slogans. Halfway down the block, before we could get to a pay phone, someone shouted: "That's two of them. Let's get them!" My mother and I ran back as fast as we could and, without even pausing to check with a guard, pushed open a side door to the building.
With time, I have come to see the episode as a fittingly sad ending to my life in Cuba, one that allowed me to make a quicker transition to the United States. Once you have to run from a mob of your own people, you know you have to go. Without regrets.
As night fell my mother and sister found a thin mattress and went to sleep on the floor. My father and I sat in plastic beach chairs in front of them. All night names of vessels were called over the loudspeakers -- a sign that the boat was ready and the group needed to assemble fast. We did not speak much that night, my father and I, but we observed. And what we saw was pitiful.
A chemistry professor from Santiago de Cuba, on his knees, begging an officer to let him join his wife and children, who were already on the bus to Mariel. His wife's name had been called, while his, inexplicably, had been omitted.
An old woman who cried inconsolably because her only son was forbidden to leave with her because his name had been misspelled in some document. She wanted to stay, but her son pushed her into the arms of an officer, who took her away as she kicked and screamed for her son.
The son left quickly, while the chemistry teacher lingered, still sobbing on his knees.
Dawn found us in the same chairs. About 8 a.m. our boat was called. We went through the process without any problems and soon were sitting in a bus without glass in the windows, leaving us exposed to the fury of the mob outside. We were pelted with tomatoes and eggs. Some people in the bus cried. Others cursed under their breath. An old lady prayed.
After a short ride, we arrived in El Mosquito, a barren, dusty field that served as a holding area for people waiting to board boats at the port of Mariel. We formed a long line outside, in the midst of a woodsy, rocky area, and waited our turn. What we were waiting for, we did not know. But because Cubans were trained to wait in line everywhere, we obeyed.
Sometime in the afternoon our turn came. We were asked to walk into what looked like a small house with a green roof. An officer asked my name and wanted to know what I was carrying. He took my two pens and sent me to a curtained booth for a search. A woman asked me to lift my blouse, unhook my bra and take off my pants and panties. Midway through she took pity on me and let me go.
My father turned in the last of his possessions, 200 pesos, about a month's salary. He protested but was told that where he was going he would not need Cuban pesos. We emerged from the house, without money or identity, into what looked like a sun-scorched military camp.
We were assigned to one of the dozens of olive green tents that dotted a barren field looking out on a pretty stretch of beach that was fenced off and patrolled by security guards. The word was that this was the last stop before Mariel. We were shocked to meet people who had been waiting 10 days. We could not fathom spending a day there, let alone a week.
We had not taken a shower or brushed our teeth since leaving the house the day before. We had no towels, sheets, clean underwear or even an extra set of clothes. We had not slept on a bed or taken off our shoes or had a minute alone. We also had not gone to the bathroom.
Someone pointed us to the showers and toilets, a cluster of tents in the distance. The stench was unbearable. Flies swarmed. My mother felt ill. We decided, instead, to take a bath in the ocean. Salt water, we thought, would be better than no water at all. But when we tried to get to the beach, a guard told us that swimming was not allowed. We went back to the tent.
The camp was divided into three sections. One large area was reserved for people like us who had been claimed by relatives who had come from Miami. Another area, fenced by barbed wire, was for people who had been in the Peruvian Embassy. They had no tents or cots.
Yet another section, closer to the water, was reserved for people who had walked into police stations across the country and applied for permits to leave, declaring themselves escoria. This term covered anyone from a homosexual to an independent thinker to a thief. They were also fenced in and guarded by dogs.
Dusk was fast approaching. We had been told that the loudspeakers would blare through the night. If you missed your name, you had to wait for space on another boat, if and when space became available. I don't think anybody in our group slept that night. An ocean breeze cooled the tent, the loudspeakers droned on and a spotlight canvassed the entire camp.
In the morning, about 10 a.m., our boat was called. "Valley Chief, Valley Chief, Valley Chief." Three times. We rushed to an area where again we were ordered to form a line and board a bus. After a short ride, we arrived at Mariel.
From the bus we could see the masts of the vessels. There were recreational yachts, shrimp boats and little two-person speedboats with people who, seemingly, had buzzed over from Florida just to see what was going on. Good Samaritans were throwing apples and shiny little bags. I later learned that the bags contained potato chips. I remember thinking that it was the first time I had seen apples, but somehow I knew what they were.
There was an atmosphere of energy and optimism around the boats: people coming and going; men in uniform carrying bottles of water; reporters interviewing refugees and boat owners. From the window, I suddenly caught a glimpse of Uncle Oswaldo standing on the dock, tanned and dirty, and with a beard from 17 days out in the sea. He was wearing jeans and a white T-shirt that contrasted sharply with his sunburned skin. Smiling through his tears, he waved at us.
Behind him, white and motionless, lay the Valley Chief, the boat that we thought would take us to the United States.
Not too long after our group boarded the boat, a bus stopped a few feet from the dock and people began pouring out. Some were shoeless; others wore orange uniforms that retained the creases of clothes that had been folded for too long; most had their heads shaved. A few were crying. They boarded the Valley Chief, and the captain was instructed by Cuban immigration officers to take them to the United States.
We did not know it then, but they were people that the Cuban government wanted to get rid of. Some were prisoners, doing time for crimes that ranged from theft to manslaughter. Others were simply nuisances, troubled people who took up space and resources and did not contribute anything to Castro's grand plans for a Socialist utopia. By sending them abroad, the government was not only ridding itself of problems but also turning the Mariel crisis into Washington's problem.
"Sector by sector, the police identified the problem types and told them, plain and simple, 'If you don't leave now, you go to jail for four years,"' says Carlos Cajaraville, a former counterintelligence captain who spent six months working at the harbor. "Most people, given the choice, would opt to leave."
Filiberto Castineira, who was a colonel in the Ministry of the Interior, the internal security apparatus in Cuba, and now sells food from a lunch cart in Miami, worked at the command post that managed the Mariel operation. He says that Castro would call every night on a special line to ask how many boats had arrived, what capacity they had, how many boats had left and with how many people. He then gave orders saying which groups of people should leave the next day.
If too many homosexuals left, then their percentage was lowered and the percentage of families increased. If too many criminals left, which could provoke a response from American authorities in Key West, then that figure was lowered and the percentage of, say, political prisoners was increased. There were seven categories in all.
Washington was not blind to what was happening, but President Carter had his hands tied. In a meeting at the White House, the high command of the Coast Guard informed the administration that there was no way to stop the boat lift without using force, which would lead to a significant loss of life.
"Can you imagine Mr. Human Rights killing innocent refugees seeking freedom from a repressive regime in Cuba?" says Robert Pastor, who was the Carter administration's point man on Latin America and the Caribbean. "We were caught in a dilemma for which we had no answer."
To make matters worse, in early May, President Carter urged Americans to open their arms and hearts to arriving refugees. His statement was interpreted as a sign that all Cuban refugees were welcome, but the administration insisted that the president had been misunderstood.
Five days after the president's remarks the captain of the Valley Chief received the order to leave Mariel. By then the boat's blue waterline was no longer visible. There were 210 people on board, only 17 of whom were related to the Cuban-Americans who had made the trip from Miami. One of the strange men who came on board without shoes asked my father for his nail clipper. When my father asked him what he wanted it for, he said he wanted to cut his veins open. We stayed away from him as much as we could.
The Valley Chief, creaking under the extraordinary weight, refused to move. The captain said that the motor was damaged and that we weren't going anywhere. My uncle went looking for help and returned with a tanned and muscled American sailor who spoke with what I now think was a Texas drawl. I can hear his voice, but not the words, because at the time I did not understand any English.
He had sailed his yacht, Manana, to the port of Mariel as a Red Cross volunteer. As my uncle explained the situation to the man, I sat on the hard cement surface of the docks, trying in vain to understand. From below, I noticed that the man's right arm was fake, but so real-looking that it was almost impossible to detect. The nails were perfectly shaped, and the curves of the forearm imitated the muscles on his left arm.
The man agreed to take the women and children on his yacht and to tow the Valley Chief to international waters. When he tried to throw a rope from the docks to keep the Valley Chief from drifting, his fake arm got tangled up in the ropes and fell into the water. Everybody gasped. My mother fainted and hit the cement with a thud. Then a man dove into the murky waters of the port and, after a few seconds, came out triumphantly holding up the arm. The American, who turned out to be a Vietnam vet, simply took the arm, put it on and continued working. My mother came about. An explosion of applause followed.
The event is etched in my memory because I remember thinking how courageous the man was to lead a full life with only one arm and how great technology must be in the United States to produce such an authentic-looking arm.
It was a sign, I thought then, of good things to come.
My father and uncle stayed behind on the damaged Valley Chief while my mother, my sister and I boarded the Manana. I tried to help in the kitchen making sandwiches, but someone called me up to the deck so I would not miss the last views of Cuba -- the faint edge of a low green hill and the masts of the boats swaying in the breeze. It was a little after 6 p.m., four days after we had left home.
Before Cuba had completely disappeared from view, I began to throw up. There is little I remember after that. I was sick the entire night, curled up on the wet floor next to my sister, who was also sick.
While everyone slept, strewn about the boat, my mother kept a vigil over my sister and me. She was 40 years old and, for the first time in her life, alone with her daughters. She had never been on a boat before, feared the water and didn't know how to swim. Both her daughters were seasick practically to the point of unconsciousness and she was silenced by her lack of English.
At about 3 a.m., I awoke with a violent stomach spasm. I was totally disoriented. I did not know where my head was or in what direction my feet were pointing. I wondered if someone had moved my bed. Then I realized I was not in my bed. "What's wrong?" my mother asked.
I thought for a minute what to say. I was cold and hungry. I had an intense pain in my bladder from not going to the bathroom for so long. I could not feel my legs. My head hurt, as did my throat and stomach, from retching all night long. My clothes were dirty; my hair was matted. I had not changed or washed in five days. I felt like crying, but I was so dizzy that I could not even cry. And of course, pain of all pains, I had left Cuba.
"Nothing," I told my mother. "I'm O.K."
It was already Sunday, May 11, Mother's Day. I remember thinking that my mother was not going to get a card. I had mailed her one the day before we left our house. It was probably already under the door. I reminded my mother that it was her day and went back to my stupor. In a few hours we reached the United States.
So thick was the fog of seasickness that I don't remember seeing land until I actually stepped on the docks at Key West. I don't remember feeling anxious, hopeful or expectant. I only remember the nausea that tortured my empty, pained stomach.
The moment I stepped on land, though, the queasiness disappeared and I started to think of ways to find my father and uncle. In the day and one night we had spent on the Valley Chief, my uncle had taught me his phone number in Florida and I had memorized it. I still remember it, although he moved from that house years ago.
I gave a volunteer the number and asked her to call my aunt Tere. We formed yet another line and from there boarded buses to what looked like a giant warehouse, outfitted for thousands of people. The floor was lined with cots, row after row of them. There was a lot of food, soda and gum. And there were clean bathrooms.
On my way to one of the yellow portables, someone called my name. It was my high school literature professor, a blond woman with blue eyes and delicate features who had always been highly critical of people who did not support the regime. I turned my head the other way. I think I was embarrassed that I had left Cuba and someone had caught me in the act. Never mind that she, too, had left. At that point my departure still seemed like an act of treason. Against what, I didn't know.
We huddled in one cot and waited. At about 8 p.m. we heard our names called through a bullhorn. As we moved toward the voice, we saw Tere and her children, jumping for joy. "There they are! They are here!" Tere kept yelling as she hugged the three of us.
Sometime that night my father and my uncle found us. The Coast Guard had rescued them from the foundering Valley Chief, and my father had arrived in the United States in style, after all. A helicopter had picked them up from the deck of a huge Navy ship and taken them to a landing strip in Key West. The Valley Chief had been towed back to the Keys.
Together, at last, we arrived the next morning at my uncle's house in Hialeah. To me, accustomed to seeing photographs of my relatives in New York, Hialeah was a major disappointment. There were no tall buildings, no interesting architecture, no sense of a city, really. And of course, there was no snow. I remember the summer of 1980 as the longest and the hottest I have ever lived through, despite the constant humming of air-conditioning in every house.
A couple of days after we arrived we had to go to an office to register our presence in the United States. Our lungs were X-rayed and we went through a series of interviews. At the first table, a bald man who spoke Spanish asked our names individually. Before I could tell him, though, he said I could choose any name I wanted. I did not have to give him my real name.
"You are in America now," he said. "You can forget the past and begin anew."
I took his advice and began a new life. But I kept my name and I have never forgotten.
On Sept. 25, 1980, Cuba ended the boat lift. Even Castro became embarrassed by the spectacle of so many people clamoring to leave the island. In all, 125,266 Cubans came to America on 2,011 vessels and one aircraft. I went on to graduate from Florida Atlantic University and started a career in journalism that took me from The Miami Herald to The New York Times.
Today Mariel is just a town lying perpetually under a cloud of dust spewed by a cement factory nearby. At the port itself, there is a geothermal power plant, situated inside a military compound, off limits to civilians. The former Peruvian Embassy is now the parking lot of a nondescript five-story hotel for businesspeople and tourists. No Cubans are allowed.
Twenty years later most Mariel refugees are successful men and women who blend in with other Cuban-Americans in Miami and elsewhere. Among them are writers, television anchormen, entrepreneurs, public relations experts, Disney World executives, restaurant owners, engineers, retirees, homemakers. But 1,750 "Marielitos" remain under the custody of the Immigration and Naturalization Service for crimes committed in the United States; 1,425 have been sent back to Cuba.
When, in 1994, the Cuban government seemed on the verge of playing its Mariel card once again, Bill Clinton, in his first term, did what President Carter had been unable or unwilling to do 14 years before. He ordered the Navy to intercept all refugees and take them to Guantanamo Bay, the American military base in Cuba, and announced that they would never come to America.
Eventually, most of the 30,000 rafters held at the base did make it here. But by denying them immediate entry, President Clinton reversed decades of immigration policy toward Cuba. Since then, Cubans intercepted in the water have been routinely returned to the island.
This remarkable policy shift went practically unnoticed. No protests in the streets of Miami. No outcry from the pro-immigration lobby. No matter how much the boat lift has done for thousands of people like me, it was clear that no one else -- not Washington, not Havana, not even the Cuban exiles -- wanted another Mariel.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top: Mirta Ojito, her father and sister, 1979. Bottom: For the Ojito family, Mariel was simply a way out, but for Castro, it was the first sign that his carefully controlled social experiment had gone awry.; April 1980: Thousands of Cubans seek asylum in the Peruvian Embassy -- and a boat lift is soon born.; America -- the end of one journey, the beginning of another (clockwise from top): A makeshift camp for Cuban refugees in Florida; Mirta (right, at 17) with her sister, Mabel, in Miami; a dream come true. (Courtesy of Mirta Ojito; Montanari/U.P.I. Corbis/Bettmann; Hildebrand Caretas/Black Star; Olivier Rebbot/Woodfin Camp)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBLA (MCE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: CUBA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PERU (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IBERIA LINEAS AEREAS DE ESPANA SA (50%); CASA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CASA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PERU (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CUBAN-AMERICANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US IMMIGRATION (79%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (77%); FABRICS (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); REFUGEES (74%); AIRLINES (60%); EYE TESTING (60%); 

PERSON: OJITO, MIRTA

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



580 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 40; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 4-23-00: Phenomenon;
While Nasdaq Burns

BYLINE: By Jessica Seigel 

 BODY:
'This is big -- really big," said Bill Sarpalius, a former Texas congressman, taking in the scene at Boot Camp for Start-Ups, a seminar recently held in Manhattan and currently making its way around the country. While the Nasdaq was imitating sine waves on computer screens around the world, Sarpalius, like everyone else in sight, was networking wildly and conferencing on his cell phone. He was on the line with his board working out a merger with a rival while his employees were back at Lobbyforme.com, a Web site that, come May, will allow citizens to pool their resources and hire former congressmen as lobbyists. Getting voted out of office, he decided, was "the best thing that ever happened. Now I'm part of a new frontier. There was the gold rush, the land rush and the oil boom. Now it's the Internet. I'm staking my claim."
Such was the spirit of endless possibility -- tinged with frantic urgency -- among the 1,000 prospectors, most of them white guys under 35. They had paid $995 each to learn how to hone and sell their ideas with the artful savvy of a Hollywood pitch meeting. ("Less is more," advised Bill Joos during the Perfecting Your Pitch seminar. "Bait hooks, don't force feed fish.") 
 Indeed, the convention seemed to take a page from Writers Boot Camp, a how-to sensation founded in a bygone decade, though these young hopefuls were after much more than a two-movie deal. "You have a three-year window to make $100million," Robert Lessin, the chairman and co-C.E.O. of Wit Capital, told a standing-room audience. "After that it's business as usual."
The Boot Camp was organized by Garage.com, a start-up that helps start start-ups and will, of course, be going public later this year. Guy Kawasaki, the company's C.E.O., used to be "chief evangelist" of Apple Computer; at the seminar he seemed to proselytize for the whole New Economy. "The general message," he said, "is, things are still O.K." Translation: V.C. billions are still there for the picking. "Take the money when it's offered."
He didn't have to say it twice to Jeremy McGee, the 17-year-old president of TwoToads.com, a children's e-mail service whose business plan McGee hatched with a partner he met in church and that has subsequently attracted $100,000. Or to the 29-year-old Morgan Stanley broker who is quitting his job to focus on a Web site that "empowers personal trainers."
Another general message to the believers was: B2B (business-to-business marketing) and B2C (business to consumer) are so five minutes ago; from now on it's all about B2B2C. Michael Parekh, managing director of Goldman, Sachs's Internet group, passed the good word to Michael Janay, a 31-year-old who is quitting his job to launch a Web site offering college-admissions services. Janay ran off -- literally -- to revise his business plan. "It just clicked," he said.
By cocktail hour, everyone was fully converted. Even the service staff. Like a Los Angeles parking valet who is working on a screenplay, Antionette Davis, who was working the conference's coat check, confessed she is leaving her job to study graduate computer programming. "Everyone and their mother is doing high tech," she said. Plucky coat-check girl and mother launch Internet start-up -- sort of an "Anywhere but Here" meets Esther Dyson.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Starting up while the starting is still good. Maybe. (Nina Berman/Sipa Press, for The New York Times.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: GARAGE.COM (CO) MORGAN STANLEY (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: GARAGE.COM (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); TELECONFERENCING (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (66%); RELIGION (61%); BUSINESS TO BUSINESS MARKETING (60%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%); 

PERSON: SEIGEL, JESSICA ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



581 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 5; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1997 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
London's Tiny, but Mighty, Almeida

BYLINE: By BENEDICT NIGHTINGALE; Benedict Nightingale is the chief theater critic for The Times of London.

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
AS a theater reporter for The Times of London wryly wrote the other day, "The Almeida's bid for world domination progresses apace"; and that seems no great exaggeration. Right now, the tiny but hungry playhouse is reaching out from mission control in North London to colonize a bit of East London, a bit of Central London, eventually a bit of New York, and, if NASA ever opens up the planetary system to space thespians, one day no doubt bits of the Moon or Mars or both.
If we discount the much-hyped London debut of Kathleen Turner in a stage version of "The Graduate" -- of which more in a moment -- the Almeida has been gobbling up the London critics' attention in recent weeks. First there was the premiere of Harold Pinter's "Celebration" at the company's grungy headquarters in Islington. Then it presented Nicholas Wright's new "Cressida" in the West End, with a magnificently dilapidated Sir Michael Gambon as a trainer of the boy actors who took female roles in early-17th-century England. And now it has reopened the doors of the East End film studios once used by Alfred Hitchcock and staged "Richard II" with Ralph Fiennes as the king, a production expected at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, along with "Coriolanus," in early September.
 
'Richard II' 
 The Almeida has a habit of dispatching major performers across the Atlantic. Mr. Fiennes as Hamlet, Diana Rigg as Euripides' Medea, Liam Neeson in David Hare's "Judas Kiss," Kevin Spacey in O'Neill's "Iceman Cometh": all have appeared in the company's productions in New York, the first two of them picking up Tony Awards for their pains. But most artistic exporter-importers would not regard "Richard II" as an especially valuable addition to that inventory. Shakespeare's inept English king is not, after all, as massive a creative challenge as his emotionally turbulent Danish prince. The surprise at the Gainsborough Studios, then, is that Mr. Fiennes finds almost more in a lesser role.
Actually, it's a double surprise, since there is something about that elegant profile that makes you half-expect a reprise of the graceful, willowy, vocally exquisite Richard with which John Gielgud established his importance in London 70 years ago. But barely has Mr. Fiennes been ferried onstage in his glistening white robe and glistening white throne than he's suggesting why almost all the English nobles will be delighted to see him lose his crown to the usurping Bolingbroke.
He uses his thin smile either to mock them or to seek reassurance from his flatterers, and his tongue to flaunt his wit or, at one bizarre point, to stick out and wiggle at his angry uncle, John of Gaunt. He is disdainful, petulant, malicious and smug.
But there are political as well as personal reasons for dethroning him. Mr. Fiennes's king is clearly improvising public policy as the whim takes him, whether that means taking charge of Irish wars, banishing dangerously influential men, raising taxes, anything. He seizes the exiled Bolingbroke's lands while picking the petals off a flower, and just as casually. Never have I seen a Richard II who made me so aware of how quick and quixotic his key decisions are, and I have seldom seen a production that so lucidly posed a question still alive when Shakespeare wrote: is there a point when mortals are entitled to depose God's deputy on earth, the divinely anointed king?
Jonathan Kent, who directs, brings energy and pace to a play that can seem a classroom slog, getting good supporting performances from Linus Roache, a Bolingbroke with the resolution and the sureness of political touch that Mr. Fiennes's Richard lacks, and Oliver Ford Davies as a Duke of York less torn than dismembered by his conflicting loyalties. But in "Richard II" it's the title character who matters, and, despite his unsentimental interpretation and coldly chiseled profile, you couldn't call Mr. Fiennes inhuman or finally unsympathetic.
Yes, he displays a self-infatuated glee when he steals Bolingbroke's birthright, and, yes, he thrusts his head forward like a venomous cobra when he rejects a man he pretends to love. But adversity brings out more than just self-pitying bluster and manic mood swings. There is unexpected majesty in Mr. Fiennes's outrage when, high on a balcony, he confronts the rebels. There is a moving realism in his recognition that "I live with bread like you, feel want, taste grief, need friends." And there is a mournful wisdom when, alone in his prison cell, he confesses that "I wasted time and now doth time waste me." Even arrogant, unself-knowing despots can grow -- and Mr. Fiennes's Richard proves it.
 
'Cressida'
 "Cressida" at the Albery is set in the 1630's, 40 years after "Richard II" was first staged and 20 after Mr. Wright's real-life protagonist joined Shakespeare's company, the King's Men, and became what contemporary records describe as one of its "principall actors." And John Shank, as he was called, isn't the only historical character in the play. Almost everyone on the cast list existed: a slick operator called Blagrave, who simultaneously owned one theater and licensed plays in rival houses; John Honyman, who was one of Shank's most successful apprentices; an actor called Richard Robinson, who married the widow of Richard Burbage, the tragedian who first played Hamlet and Lear. There was also a boy called Stephen Hammerton, who was described by one witness as "a most noted and beautiful woman actor who afterwards acted, with equal grace and applause, a young lover's part."
With much of Nicholas Hytner's production occurring in and around Shakespeare's Globe, the play's milieu will fascinate any theater buff. The thespians exchange nostalgic anecdotes and bitchy complaints in the same colloquial style their successors might adopt now, but they also evoke a seedy, perilous London, where boys may be kidnapped, traded, starved or used for sex.
Yet plays need effective plots as well as fascinating settings, and that is where "Cressida" falters. Where is the tension promised by the opening scene, in which Sir Michael's Shank descends from the flies on a cloud, explaining he has had a killer-stroke and denouncing Stephen Hammerton as a traitor? There is also insufficient point, purpose and narrative clarity in the long flashback that follows.
As it turns out, Michael Legge's earnestly effeminate Stephen helps save Shank, who has unwisely invested in a rival company, from financial disaster and debtor's prison. Therefore the explanation for his dying master's incoherent rage is to be found elsewhere, presumably in the triumph that the boy enjoyed when he played the female lead in Shakespeare's "Troilus and Cressida" in a more womanly style than his master thinks proper. But how can we be sure, when we never see Stephen in performance? Still, there are compensations for the play's uncertainties and occasional longueurs, and most of them are called Gambon. Think of a Jacobean minotaur, big and bovine but mentally as well as physically agile, who can roar yet wheedle, sneer yet bring a fierce intensity to his calling -- and you have a wonderfully commanding, varied performance.
 
'Celebration'
"Celebration," the most recent of the few plays Harold Pinter has written in the last two decades, comes in a double bill with his very first, which he wrote in 1957. It is a happy conjunction, for "The Room" sheds a misty, Pinteresque light on almost everything the dramatist has produced in the last 43 years.
Lindsay Duncan's pinched, nervous Rose babbles out banalities to her grimly impassive husband and to the strangers who intrude on her small, shabby flat, obscurely threatening both it and her. As often with Mr. Pinter, there is a sense of unease and embattled dread in "The Room," a sense that nameless horrors may slip like mustard gas through the cracks into private spaces.
There is poison in the air of "Celebration," too, though its smell rises more strongly from the text than from Mr. Pinter's own production, which is often and unexpectedly hilarious. At one of two tables in a chic London restaurant, two mobsterlike brothers are noisily enjoying themselves with their spouses, themselves two slatternly sisters. At the other, a genteel husband is apologizing to his wife for an amour with his secretary, only to be tauntingly informed by her that she, too, has had plenty of affairs, including one with the most obnoxious and foul-mouthed of the diners a few feet away.
Again and again Mr. Pinter contrasts the surface bonhomie -- "What a wonderful restaurant this is!" -- with the ugly drives below. There is insecurity, anger, sexual envy, contempt and even hatred behind the strenuous smiles and the brash bravado. You get a pretty clear idea of the emotional truth when Keith Allen, playing the louder brother, boozily declares that he knows that his friends and family love him, trust him, and wouldn't like "to see me hung, drawn and quartered," or when Steven Pacey as the unfaithful husband declares that he feels a wonderful sense of harmony and for once doesn't want to "kill everyone in sight." It doesn't take a phrase book to Pinterland to decode the menace behind the rhetoric.
Starting with "One for the Road" in 1983, Mr. Pinter has produced several terse, tough plays that deal openly with torture, political wrongdoing and the abuse of human rights. "Celebration" is, perhaps, a surreptitious addition to the same files. The coarse, crude brothers turn out to be "strategy consultants" dedicated to "keeping the peace worldwide." The well-bred adulterer is a banker, keen to do a deal with them. Only one character, an eccentric waiter who bores customers with tall tales of a grandfather who met everyone from T. S. Eliot to Winston Churchill, reminds us that there are or were alternatives to the society Mr. Pinter damns with such sly panache: the consumerist, philistine, sinister and brutal Britain of A.D. 2000.
 
'The Graduate'
 How could anyone who saw them forget Dustin Hoffman's solemn young Benjamin Braddock and Anne Bancroft's infinitely cool performance as the middle-aged mistress he never calls anything more intimate than Mrs. Robinson?
Those with fond or even unfond memories of "The Graduate" will wonder why Terry Johnson has transposed the 1967 film of Charles Webb's novel to the stage, and may not feel that the production at the Gielgud, also directed by Mr. Johnson, provides a sufficient answer.
Still, the story of Ben's seduction and his growing attachment to Mrs. Robinson's daughter Elaine skims along amusingly enough, thanks to banks of louvered wooden walls inside of which a bedroom, a nightclub, even a church can be economically suggested. There are strange miscalculations, though. Anne Bancroft would never have lolled on the floor with Katharine Ross's Elaine, like two sorority girls, and had a boozy rap session about Ben. Indeed, the sudden sight of the elegant Bancroft face, twisted and aged by the discovery that her daughter knows her secret, gave the movie one of its great, wordless moments. Nor would film buffs have been impressed by an ending in which Mrs. Robinson offers Elaine shrugging permission to elope with Ben in the middle of her wedding to a boring admirer.
All the same, the play follows Mr. Webb's novel in stressing that very 1960's subject, the need to resist overwhelming parents and oppressive suburbia. That is why Matthew Rhys's Ben is far more the restless, insecure postadolescent than Mr. Hoffman's prototype, whose rebellion largely consisted of glum silences. Kathleen Turner, too, exudes svelte contempt for her surroundings, giving a performance that lacks Ms. Bancroft's vulnerability but is packed with comic assurance.
The British newspapers, I fear, have devoted much space to salacious descriptions of a moment in which she briefly displays her voluptuous body to a gibbering Ben; the curt sophistication of her acting deserves better than that.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Emilia Fox and Ralph Fiennes in "Richard II" at the Gainsborough Studios, one of several prominent Almeida Theater productions in London.; Sir Michael Gambon in "Cressida" at the Albery Theater. (Photographs by Alastair Muir)(pg. 5); Kathleen Turner and Matthew Rhys, in Terry Johnson's adaptation of "The Graduate," take on roles made famous by Anne Bancroft and Dustin Hoffman. (Agence France-Presse); Keith Allen and Lindsay Duncan appear in the premiere of Harold Pinter's "Celebration" at the Almeida Theater's headquarters in Islington, London. (Alastair Muir)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: RICHARD II (PLAY); CRESSIDA (PLAY); CELEBRATION (PLAY); GRADUATE, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARS (79%); EARTH'S MOON (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALMEIDA THEATER (LONDON)

ORGANIZATION: ALMEIDA THEATER (LONDON)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARS (79%); EARTH'S MOON (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (76%); THEATER (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%); 

PERSON: NIGHTINGALE, BENEDICT; SHAKESPEARE, WILLIAM (1564-1616); KENT, JONATHAN; FIENNES, RALPH; WRIGHT, NICHOLAS; HYTNER, NICHOLAS; GAMBON, MICHAEL (SIR); PINTER, HAROLD; TURNER, KATHLEEN; JOHNSON, TERRY KATHLEEN TURNER (71%); HAROLD PINTER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



582 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 17; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Where Authentic German Food Sells Out

BYLINE: By THOMAS STAUDTER 

DATELINE: BRIARCLIFF MANOR

 BODY:
TWO regulars, Frances and Peter Myressi, sat at their usual table at the Saturday night dinner held twice a month by the proprietors of the Chilmark German Delicatessen here and waited for their meals to arrive. In the interim they drank from sizable mugs of draft beer.
Ever since October 1998, when Renate and Wolfgang Kerber, the owners, began featuring occasional home cooked German fare like sauerbraten and wiener schnitzel, customers have flocked to their deli, bringing along family members and friends or ordering takeout. 
 The Myressis, sipping their beers, mentioned that they had been to every one of the Kerbers' dinners except two, when they were vacationing in Florida. Longtime residents of New Rochelle who moved to Ossining three years ago, the Myressis, both in their early 50's, recalled first being attracted to the deli by Mr. Kerber's wide selection of imported German beers. Acknowledging their mutual Italian-American roots, the couple conceded that their steady patronage of the Kerbers' dinners has turned them into connoisseurs of German food.
"No matter what you have here, the food is spectacular," said Mrs. Myressi, her eyes widening as a plateful of sliced sauerbraten, dumplings and red cabbage was put in front of her.
At a nearby table, Kenneth Patterson, an Ossining contractor in his 30's, was the host of a group that included his sister, Susan, who had driven up from her suburban Philadelphia home with her friend, Ian Grant of Princeton, N.J. The Pattersons' maternal grandparents, born in Germany, were very much in mind as they tucked into the sauerbraten and gravy-topped rouladen, stuffed meat rolls.
"It rivals my grandmother's,' " Ms. Patterson said of the rouladen as she watched Mr. Grant swab up the gravy and meat left on her plate.
The inspiration for the dinners at the deli, Mr. Kerber said, came in September 1998 after a family vacation to Oktoberfest in Munich. "We were looking to do something different at the store, and because we'd just returned from Germany having our own Oktoberfest seemed like a good idea," he said.
With seating for 16 and using their on-premise liquor license, the Kerbers announced their special dinner to their customers, offering a choice of sauerbraten or wiener schnitzel with side dishes and desserts like apple cake and Black Forest cake. They were amazed at the response.
"We made nearly a hundred separate dinners," Mr. Kerber said. Several patrons who missed out talked the deli owners into an encore the next month, and after yet another sold-out response, the Kerbers decided to feature the dinners once a month, then twice a month in April.
Ossining residents since 1975, Mr. and Mrs. Kerber were born in East Germany and moved to the United States when they were teenagers. They met as classmates at Evander Child High School in the Bronx and were married in 1962.
Initially, Mr. Kerber, 58, was a technician for Zeiss Optics, a manufacturer of precision lenses, but he left the field in 1972 because of too much pressure and opened the College Deli on Fordham Road. Wanting to be closer to home, he eventually sold the deli in the Bronx and in 1982 opened a new deli in the Chilmark Shopping Center.
With few stores and restaurants in Westchester that specialize in German cold cuts and similar products, the Kerbers have built up a loyal clientele. Still, owning and running a mom-and-pop deli is not an easy way to make a living.
"The heydays of the deli are gone," Mr. Kerber said. "Now, supermarkets carry everything, and people are always looking for items that cost cheaper. Our regular customers are the kind of people who still look for quality."
The undeniable crowd pleaser at each of the dinners is Mrs. Kerber's sauerbraten, a marinated variation of pot roast.Other choices include different kinds of schnitzel (veal cutlets), smoked pork chops, roast pork and wurst (sausage) platters.
"My sauerbraten recipe is actually a combination of what Wolfgang's mother and my mother used to make," Mrs. Kerber said, explaining that the key is to marinate a cut of top round beef for a week in water, vinegar, sugar, peppercorns and bay leaves before cooking it.
"There really is no secret, but the sugar makes it not so sour," she said with a wink. "At home I also use wine in the marinade, but not at the store in case any of the customers can't have it in their diet."
Mrs. Kerber, who learned to cook from her mother, attributes the popularity of her dinners to the fact that many customers once had German meals years ago but either didn't have the time to make the dishes themselves or lacked a good recipe.
Or, as Ms. Patterson put it: "With the economy the way it is now, people can afford to go out for dinner or buy takeout meals more often. It's certainly better than stressing out in the kitchen."
All was calm in the deli's tiny kitchen at a little after 5 p.m. on the day of one of the Kerber's dinners. Mrs. Kerber had two large pans of sauerbraten and rouladen warming in the oven and she carefully watched over the pots of baseball-size dumplings, red cabbage and Bavarian-style sauerkraut on the stove. Her cousin, Barbara Schlesiona, 52, who had come from her home in Stamford to help with preparations, was busy readying some takeout orders, which comprise about half of the total dinners they sell.
Meanwhile, the Kerbers' 29-year-old daughter, Christina, wearing a dirndl, was out front with her father to wait on tables. Her older brother, Michael, would show up later to see if any help was needed "and to get a free dinner," Ms. Kerber said with a laugh.
By 6 p.m. the confluence of a full house and a steady stream of takeout orders was keeping all the Kerbers occupied, and the atmosphere was pleasantly hectic.
Patricia Isaza, a graphic designer in Ossining, arrived to pick up dinners to share with a colleague. "Because I'm working on the weekend, I don't have time to make food like this," Ms. Isaza said. "It's great to know you can go into this deli and get a great meal. The sauerbraten is my favorite, and the way they do red cabbage is beyond description."
Emily Grober of Croton-on-Hudson, who arrived to pick up a takeout dinner, said: "I make sauerbraten, too, but I like trying theirs. What I enjoy best is their cabbage soup -- I don't know anyone else who makes it."
Leaning against the counter while waiting for his takeout, Read McFeely, a 50-year-old staff researcher at International Business Machines who lives in Ossining and described himself as a "beer aficionado," drained a half-liter of cold draft and said, "It's rare to find people like the Kerbers who have the expertise and dedication needed to present specialty products." A frequent traveler to Germany, Mr. McFeely added that he enjoyed discussing fine beers with Mr. Kerber, "especially while drinking one."
At one of the tables, Cathy Dunleavy and Arthur Holzman stared at the gravy stained plates before them, which had earlier been heaped with rouladen, spatzel (dumplings) and sauerkraut.
"I can't cook for beans," Ms. Dunleavy, a Carmel resident, said with a sigh. "But if Wolf and Renate want to teach me how, I'd be very happy to learn."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ian Grant and Susan Patterson sharing a table at the Chilmark German Delicatessen in Briarcliff Manor, where at least once a month the menu, inset, features sauerbraten with red cabbage and dumplings and other German-style dishes. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHILMARK GERMAN DELICATESSEN (BRIARCLIFF MANOR, NY)

ORGANIZATION: CHILMARK GERMAN DELICATESSEN (BRIARCLIFF MANOR, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS BEER & ALE (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (77%); GRANDPARENTS (76%); FAMILY TRAVEL (76%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (61%); 

PERSON: STAUDTER, THOMAS WOLFGANG KERBER (95%); KENNETH PATTERSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



583 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 4; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Luring Residential Developers Back Downtown

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
A DORMANT textile mill in Paterson and a vacant site once occupied by a building-supply business in Bayonne are to be transformed into rental apartments with the help of a new state program called Downtown Living, aimed at reintroducing middle-income housing into urban neighborhoods.
Earlier this month, the New Jersey Department of Community Affairs awarded $2.5 million in low-interest loans to the two projects, the first of their kind in the two cities. 
 A total of $7.5 million was appropriated to the program by the Legislature as part of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's 1999-2000 budget. Along with the Bayonne and Paterson projects, which will produce a total of 90 apartments, two other projects are in the approval process. They would generate some 600 additional apartments, state officials said.
Governor Whitman, who has said that attracting people of all incomes to cities "is the surest urban revitalization strategy," has also proposed another $7.5 million in next year's budget to finance a second round of apartment-building.
Jane M. Kenny, the commissioner of the Department of Community Affairs, said, "The fortunes of our urban centers affect the whole of the state." This program is designed "to provide one more way to help people reinvest in cities," Ms. Kenny added. She cited other state initiatives, like its low-interest mortgage program for home buyers in designated urban areas and the reuse of formerly polluted sites in cities.
There is also the State Development and Redevelopment Plan, which directs growth to areas where water and sewer lines and highways already exist. And developers say the state's purchase of a million acres of open space is making it more difficult to build in the suburbs.
Those programs as well as a growing opposition to creeping suburban sprawl and a strong real estate market have helped rekindle interest in urban areas. Still, the "biggest challenge to cities is retaining and attracting middle-income families," Commissioner Kenny said.
Downtown Living is an expansion of an earlier pilot financing program, which the state began in 1998 and which resulted in two middle-income rental projects: 131 apartments in Morristown and 82 apartments in New Brunswick.
Under the program state loans are available to both for-profit and nonprofit developers at an interest rate that generally is below 5 percent and can be as low 1 percent. The loans are for 15 to 30 years.
To be eligible for a loan, a project must be in one of 70 municipalities that qualify under the state's various urban aid programs. It must also be part of a larger redevelopment plan or one that is expected to stimulate additional investment.
In Paterson, Alpert & Alpert Ltd. of Fort Lee will use a $1.5 million state loan to help finance the first phase of its conversion of the Boris Kroll textile mill to rental apartments. The first 39 units will cost about $3.6 million.The mill's five red-brick buildings, which date from the 1900's and have been designated a state historic landmark, have sat vacant for at least a decade. They take up an entire block, bounded by 20th and 21st Avenues and State and Gray Streets.
Later phases call for the remaining four buildings to be turned into 150 additional rentals and at least 10,000 square feet of retail space, said Joseph Alpert, the vice president of the development company.
The project is the first sizable new middle-income housing development to take shape in Paterson, the state's third-largest city (after Newark and Jersey City), in three decades. The need for all types of housing in Paterson is about 10,000 units, said Bob Grant, a city spokesman.
IN the last decade, he added, Paterson's population has grown to 170,000 from 140,900 in 1990, with the influx of immigrants from Middle Eastern countries as well as Central and South America. But housing construction in the city "has been far less than what potentially could be built," Mr. Grant said. Among the reasons, he said, was the the City Council has been reluctant to provide incentives like tax abatements.
Mr. Alpert said that downtown Patterson was the "perfect area for creating middle-income housing." He cited the mill's location not far from Interstate 80 and the 21st Avenue retail corridor. "Someone has to be first," he said.
Nonetheless, getting the project to this point has taken two years, Mr. Alpert said, adding that "it still would not have been economically feasible without the state financing." What the loan, at a 1 percent interest rate for 15 years, enabled his company to do "was to reduce the cost of the conversion and attract other financing," he said.
Additional financing for the initial phase of the conversion is coming from a $600,000 low-interest Federal loan provided under the Home Program of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and administered by the City of Paterson. The rest will come from Federal historic tax credits, private sources and the developers themselves.
The first 39 apartments, which will have one to three bedrooms and 650 to 1,200 square feet, will be in the mill building closest to 20th Avenue, which will be renamed Paterson Commons I. The renovation is expected to start in August and take a year to complete.
Starting rents for the units are expected to be $650 to $950 a month. There will be no income limits for prospective tenants. Mr. Alpert said he expects the project to draw middle-income people who want to move from rentals in older two- and three-family homes in Paterson to new apartments at the same rent.
In Bayonne, the $1 million state loan will be used to help construct a 4-story, 51-apartment building called Peninsula Court on a vacant site on West 25th Street between Avenue C and Broadway, the city's downtown shopping area. The Alessi Organization, a 38-year-old family-run company in Bayonne, is the developer of the $5 million project, the first multifamily project in the city in 15 years. It "will provide much-needed middle-income housing," said Joseph E. Ryan, Bayonne's public-information officer.
Unlike other Hudson County riverfront cities, Bayonne was largely passed over by the mid-80's real estate boom. One reason was the lack of transportation, but that is changing. Bayonne anchors one end of a new 20.5-mile light rail system, and trains have just begun running on the first 7.5 miles along the Hudson River. Peninsula Court is within walking distance of the 34th Street rail station.
"The housing market in the city has tightened in the last few years in anticipation of the light rail," Mr. Ryan said. Vincent Alessi, the president of the Alessi Organization, added: "The market has finally reached Bayonne."
But, he added, that, "without the state financing to kick-start the process, it would have been much more difficult" to proceed because lenders were reluctant to enter an untested market. Along with the 15-year $1 million state loan at a 1 percent interest rate, Mr. Alessi said his company is financing the remaining $4 million from private sources, including its own money.
Mr. Alessi said he expected the project to draw "older folks from Bayonne who sold their homes but don't want to leave," as well as younger people who now live in other riverfront cities, work in Manhattan and "want to live in an apartment that is 20 to 30 percent larger and 20 to 30 percent less expensive."
Starting rents for the studio, one- and two-bedroom apartments, with 720 to 1,150 square feet, are expected to be $750 to $1,350 a month. As in Paterson, there will be no income limits for the tenants in Bayonne. Amenities planned at Peninsula Court, designed by R. A. German Architects of Manhattan, include a 55-car parking garage. Construction is expected to begin next month and take about a year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Paterson, Alpert & Alpert plans to carve 39 apartments out of a building at the old Boris Kroll mill. (Mastropolo Arts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (NJ) ALPERT & ALPERT (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; PATERSON (NJ); BAYONNE (NJ); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; APARTMENT HOUSES; RENTING AND LEASING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); SUBURBS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); FAMILY (72%); APPROVALS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



584 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1889 words

HEADLINE: In Hudson Valley, And Elsewhere, Minor Leagues Are Booming

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY 

 BODY:
THERE will be speeches. A politician or two will limber up a rusty arm to lob ceremonial first pitches. An umpire will shout the traditional command, and minor league baseball will come to Long Island, following a trend that has swept the New York region.
The debut of the Long Island Ducks this Friday night, in a gleaming new $19.9 million stadium here, will follow a script that has played out several times in the last six summers in the Hudson Valley, Connecticut and New Jersey. A decade ago, the region had only one minor league team, in New Britain. With the arrival of the Ducks and new teams in Queens and the Catskills this season, there will be 16 teams playing in four leagues within 100 miles of Times Square. Camden is to join them next season, and there is talk of creating three more teams -- in Yonkers, Hartford and Bergen County in New Jersey. 
 Baseball executives cite two overriding reasons for the growth in the region and elsewhere: the popularity of two baseball movies, "Field of Dreams" and "Bull Durham" a few years ago, and handsome new, fan-friendly stadiums with plenty of amenities and amusements, especially for families.
Cities and towns, some struggling economically, have turned to the sport for help in reviving run-down neighborhoods and polishing their images. These communities have pumped millions of state and county dollars into new stadiums; the Ducks alone have reaped nearly $20 million in public funds for their new stadium.
But as the roster of teams grows, some clubs are starting to ask how many are too many. And some industry analysts are wondering just how long the interest will last, and what will happen to public investments if the novelty wanes.
"There certainly is going to be a saturation point," said Andrew Zimbalist, a professor of economics at Smith College and a student of baseball finance. "I think they may be pushing up against it now. But the jury's still out."
For now, experts say a mix of novelty and a fresh love for the age-old essence of baseball has made the minor leagues appealing.
"It represents an older America that we crave," said Michael Aaron Rockland, chairman of the American studies department at Rutgers University. "It represents a softer, sweeter, slower time. Most of us are sick and tired of living by the clock. Here's a game that doesn't go by the clock. Baseball offers us a vision of peace, quietude and timelessness."
Such qualities can also be applied to major league baseball. But promoters of minor league baseball add a few more nouns -- like value and intimacy. The games are affordable for most families, with most tickets priced under $10, rivaling movies, bowling alleys and amusement parks.
"It's absolutely great entertainment," said Bob Tait, who has tickets for half of the Somerset Patriots 70 home games. "There's thousands of people around here who can't get away from taking care of their kids, so they just take them to the ball park. It's safe, it's wholesome, it's close to home and there's great community spirit."
The new ballparks hold between 5,000 and 7,000 fans. They have bright, well-stocked concession stands, close-to-the-field seating and excellent sight lines. Most have picnic pavilions and playgrounds, video arcades, plenty of music and flashy scoreboards with big video screens. Team mascots are fixtures and mingle with fans. Players are routinely made available to children for chatting and signing autographs. Promotional giveaways are common.
Fifty years ago, long before the minor leagues refashioned themselves as family friendly, the teams were little more than training grounds for potential major leaguers. At the height of their popularity in 1949, the leagues drew nearly 40 million fans.
But in the early 50's, attendance started eroding with the rapid spread of television, said Miles Wolff, commissioner of the Northern League, one of the five independent leagues. The slump continued during the Vietnam War and the sour political and cultural mood it created, he added. By 1969 minor league attendance had slipped to about 10 million. It remained stagnant for 15 years.
At the game's low point in the New York region a decade ago, only New Britain fielded a team. It played as a farm team of the Boston Red Sox in the Eastern League, a Class AA league two steps below the major leagues with a 140-game schedule.
New Britain is now called the Rock Cats and is affiliated with the Minnesota Twins. And it is no longer alone.
In 1994 and '95, three new regional teams joined the Eastern League: the Trenton Thunder (a Red Sox farm), the Norwich Navigators (Yankees), the New Haven Ravens (Mariners). At the same time, the New York Penn League, a Class A league, three rungs below the majors, came to the region with the Hudson Valley Renegades (Tampa Bay Devil Rays) in Fishkill in Dutchess County and the New Jersey Cardinals (St. Louis) in rural Sussex County. Last season, the league added the Staten Island Yankees (Yankees), and this summer it will add the Queens Kings (Toronto).
All were hits and have achieved varying degrees of success, with Trenton and Hudson Valley consistently drawing the biggest crowds.
Fan acceptance has spawned the arrival of two independent leagues since 1998, the Atlantic and the Northern. Neither is bound by the restrictive territorial rules that govern minor leagues linked to the majors. Therefore, they can play wherever they are welcome.
The Atlantic has five teams this season in the region, and the Northern three: the New Jersey Jackals at Yogi Berra Stadium in Little Falls, the Waterbury Spirit in Connecticut and the Catskill Cougars in Mountainside, N.Y. The eight independent teams draw their players from youngsters never signed by major league teams and veterans who once played in the affiliated minor leagues or the majors.
Now the Long Island Ducks start play in the Atlantic League with Bud Harrelson, star shortstop for the Mets a generation ago and a team co-owner, serving as its field manager. The mastermind of the Ducks and the Atlantic League is Frank Boulton, now finding a happy ending to a campaign he started in the early 1990's to bring professional baseball to his native Long Island.
"It's very rewarding," Mr. Boulton, 49, said of the Ducks, the league's four other active teams and the one planned for Camden next summer. "Some people like to say I have great vision. I like to say I have a hard head."
Of the four Atlantic League teams now playing, the Somerset Patriots and the Bridgeport Bluefish have been the most popular, drawing home crowds that averaged 5,235 and 4,571, respectively, last year.
Two owners of the Bluefish, Mary-jane Foster and her husband, Jack McGregor, are eager to introduce minor league ball to Westchester.
"I think it's going to be a great baseball site," Ms. Foster said, "with its sheer number of people, and the disposable income and the local interest." She said she and her husband have looked at possible stadium sites in several towns. Currently, they are talking with Yonkers officials about the possibility of building a stadium. She declined to discuss specific locations.
In the next month, Yonkers officials plan to hire consultants to explore the idea. They will examine fan interest, possible stadium sites, construction costs and the question of whether the ballpark should be financed with private or public funds.
Edward A. Sheeran, special assistant to the mayor for economic development, said city officials want to make certain that the county could support minor league ball before making any commitments.
"We're very impressed with the success of the teams that have been popping up," he said.
A Yonkers team would play in the Atlantic League and could compete for fans with the Hudson Valley Renegades, a big hit in Dutchess and neighboring Hudson Valley counties since starting play in 1994.
But neither Ms. Foster nor Skip Weisman, president of the Renegades, seem concerned about one team harming the other.
"We could mutually coexist very happily," Ms. Foster said.
"There's enough people in Westchester for both of us to do O.K.," Mr. Weisman said.
Economic development officials around the region praise the urban renewal value of the teams and the new stadiums, more for burnishing the images of downtown and enticing new investment than creating new jobs. The Newark Bears' new stadium opened last year a few blocks from the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, which started a downtown revival.
George Gatta, deputy Suffolk County executive of planning and economic development, said the Long Island Ducks' stadium completes the transformation of "one of the worst neighborhoods" in the county.
And in Bridgeport, the 18-acre waterfront site where the Bluefish play was once filled with abandoned factories and stores, empty gasoline stations and burned-out houses. Now a $45 million, 10,000-seat arena and a 900-car parking garage for railroad commuters and baseball fans are going up at the site.
Michael Freimuth, Bridgeport's director of planning and economic development, said the stadium has changed the image of that piece of downtown. Commuters on the Metro-North Railroad once saw abandoned factories covered with graffiti. "Now they see 5,000 fans waving at them," Mr. Freimuth said. "That changes one's mindset about an older city. If image improves, value increases and value draws investment."
But in New Jersey and Connecticut, there is fear of having too much of a good thing.
After the Somerset Patriots began playing about 20 miles north of Trenton last season, the Thunder's average home attendance dropped to 6,197 from 6,628. That still left the Thunder ranked among the top 25 minor league clubs in the country, but it was the team's first attendance drop in its six seasons of play.
But Joseph Seneca, chairman of the New Jersey Council of Economic Advisers and a vice president for academic affairs at Rutgers, said the region's economy is at its strongest point in a generation. The minor league expansion, he said, was not stretched too thin.
"This region can accommodate a lot," Dr. Seneca said. "It's a huge market."
But in Connecticut, the three Eastern League teams are jittery about competition. Attendance in New Haven and Norwich had already been slipping when the Bridgeport team made its debut in 1998.
The Bluefish drew an average of about 4,500 fans last year, while New Haven and Norwich had averages of about 2,900 and 3,700, respectively. Both the Ravens and the Navigators had drawn more than 4,000 people in the first two years of operation in 1994 and 1995.
Chris Canetti, New Haven's general manager, said Bridgeport, about 25 miles west of New Haven, has taken some of his team's fans in Fairfield and Westchester Counties.
He said Eastern League players were on the verge of major league careers and called the Ravens' home park, 73-year-old Yale Field, a "true minor league historic old park."
But, referring to Bridgeport's new waterfront stadium, he said, "It's hard to compete with a new $20 million ballpark with every fan amenity imaginable."
For their part, Bluefish officials said they were more interested in looking for new fans in Westchester County and northern New Jersey than squabbling with their baseball neighbors to the east.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sparky Lyle now manages the Somerset Patriots.; The Somerset Patriots of the Atlantic League warming up at Baseball City in Davenport, Fla., above. Skip Weisman, owner of the Hudson Valley Renegades, in Dutchess Stadium, top. (Photographs by Chris Maynard, top, and Ernst Peters for The New York Times)(pg. 1); At Dutchess Stadium in Fishkill, where the Hudson Valley Renegades, part of the NY Penn League, play. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 
Chart: "Minor League Teams: A Profile" shows the regions' minor league teams and where they play along with venue information and prices. (pg. 8)
 
Map shows the location of the ballparks for the New York region. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON VALLEY RENEGADES NEW YORK PENN LEAGUE (68%); EASTERN LEAGUE (55%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUDSON VALLEY RENEGADES EASTERN LEAGUE (55%); BOSTON RED SOX (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; HUDSON VALLEY (NY); YONKERS (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MINOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (94%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TRENDS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); SPORTS FANS (72%); MOUNTAINS (70%); COUNTIES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); FILM GENRES (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (62%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



585 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2882 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly This Summer;
The Arrival of a Flock of Minor League Teams Brings Urban Renewal, But Some Nesting Areas Are Crowded

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY 

DATELINE: CENTRAL ISLIP

 BODY:
THERE will be speeches. A politician or two will limber up rusty arms to lob ceremonial first pitches. An umpire will shout the traditional command, and minor-league baseball will come to Long Island, following a trend that has swept the New York region.
The debut of the Long Island Ducks this Friday night, in a gleaming new $19.9 million stadium here, will follow a script that has played out several times in just the last six summers in New Jersey, Connecticut and the Hudson Valley. Last year, it happened in Newark and Bridgewater, N.J. The year before it was Bridgeport, Conn., and Atlantic City. Next year, under current plans, it will be Camden. 
 A decade ago, the region had only one minor-league team, in New Britain, Conn. This season, with the arrival of the Ducks and new teams in Queens and the Catskills, there will be 16 teams playing in four leagues within 100 miles of Times Square.
Baseball executives cite two overriding reasons for the growth: the popularity of two baseball movies, "Field of Dreams" and "Bull Durham," in the past dozen years, and new fan-friendly stadiums, most of them built with taxpayer money for cities and towns that have turned to the sport for help in reviving run-down or dormant neighborhoods and polishing their images. These communities have pumped millions of state and county dollars into new stadiums; the Ducks alone have reaped nearly $20 million in public funds for their new stadium.
In many places, the investment appears to have paid off. The success of Trenton's team has led to construction of an arena and other new development. Bridgeport, too, is building an arena. The Ducks' new stadium finishes a major redevelopment project in Central Islip that includes a gleaming new federal courthouse, a state courthouse and hundreds of units of new housing.
But as the roster of teams grows, some of the ball clubs are starting to ask how many are too many. In Connecticut, where some of the older teams are leery of an upstart in Bridgeport and a proposed team in Hartford, the old guard is starting to snipe at the newcomers and fret about their muscling in on their territory.
And some wonder just how long the interest will last, and what will happen to public investments if the novelty wanes.
"There certainly is going to be a saturation point," said Andrew Zimbalist, a professor of economics at Smith College in Northampton, Mass., and a student of baseball finance. "I think they may be pushing up against it now. But the jury's still out."
But for now, the novelty and a fresh love for the age-old essence of baseball has made the minor leagues appealing.
"It represents an older America that we crave," said Michael Aaron Rockland, chairman of the American studies department at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J. "It represents a softer, sweeter, slower time. Most of us are sick and tired of living by the clock. Here's a game that doesn't go by the clock. Baseball offers us a vision of peace, quietude and timelessness."
Such qualities can also be applied to Major League Baseball. But promoters of the minor-league variety add a few more nouns, like value and intimacy. Their games are affordable for most families, with most tickets under $10, rivaling movies, bowling alleys and amusement parks.
The new stadiums are closer to home for many fans; the Ducks' new EAB Stadium, for instance, is a godsend for Long Islanders weary of trips west to Shea Stadium and Yankee Stadium.
Lou Ottens of Clinton, N.J., has forsaken the Yankees for the Somerset Patriots, now two years old, and their new brick and steel stadium in Bridgewater. "Traffic on the George Washington Bridge and the stadium parking lots are too much of a hassle," he said. "Now I just have to go 20 minutes from my home."
Mr. Ottens stopped by the ballpark the other day and bought seven tickets for $59.50. He and his wife planned to share them with any of their 20 nieces and nephews who want to go. Such an outing to Yankee Stadium would have been too expensive, he said.
"Plus, I honestly feel these players will give you a better game than the guys in the majors because they have something to prove," he said. "They're working with a goal: They want to get to the majors. Sometimes I feel the guys already there don't particularly give you a good game sometimes."
Bob Tait and his wife, Marion, have tickets for half the Patriots' 70 home games. "It's absolutely great entertainment," he said. "There's thousands of people around here who can't get away from taking care of their kids, so they just take them to the ballpark. It's safe, it's wholesome, it's close to home and there's great community spirit."
Last season, the 13 minor league clubs that played in the region drew nearly 2.7 million fans. The Yankees drew 3.3 million, a team record, and the Mets attracted 2.8 million, and officials of both teams say they are not worried about losing fans.
"There's enough baseball fans out there," said Jason Zillo, a spokesman for the Yankees. "People want to see good baseball and right now we're providing that to the fans."
The new ballparks hold 5,000 to 7,000 fans. They all have bright, well-stocked concession stands, close-to-the-field seating and excellent sight lines. Most have picnic pavilions and playgrounds, video arcades, plenty of music and flashy outfield scoreboards with big video screens. Team mascots mingle with fans. Children celebrating birthdays are serenaded by the stadium organist, with fans joining in. Players are routinely made available for autographs. Promotional giveaways are common.
Cultural experts say something deeper than gimmickry has spurred the resurgence. Sean Wilentz, director of the American studies program at Princeton University, cites "baby-boomer nostalgia."
"You feel closer to the players, closer to the other fans," he said. "It's a more human feel. And then there's all this cornball stuff, the little contests. It's much more community-oriented. And there's none of the drunkenness and vulgarity you see at some major-league stadiums."
Fifty years ago, long before the minor leagues refashioned themselves as family-friendly, the teams were little more than training grounds for potential major-leaguers in hundreds of small towns and moderate-sized cities around the country. At the height of their popularity in 1949, the leagues drew nearly 40 million visitors.
But in the early 1950's, attendance started eroding with the rapid spread of television and home air-conditioning, said Miles Wolff, commissioner of the Northern League, one of five independent leagues in the country. The slump continued during the Vietnam War and the sour political and cultural mood it created, he said. By 1969, minor-league attendance had slipped to about 10 million. It remained stagnant for about 15 years. Now it is back to where it was before, with attendance of 40.2 million in 1999.
At the game's low point in the New York region a decade ago, only New Britain fielded a team. Then in 1994 and 1995, three teams joined New Britain in the Eastern League, a Class AA league two steps below the majors: the Trenton Thunder (Red Sox), the Norwich Navigators (Yankees) and the New Haven Ravens (Mariners). At the same time, the New York-Penn League, a Class A league, three rungs below the majors, came to the region with the Hudson Valley Renegades (Tampa Bay Devil Rays) in Fishkill, in Dutchess County, and the New Jersey Cardinals (St. Louis) in rural Sussex County. Last season, the league added the Staten Island Yankees (Yankees) and this summer will add the Queens Kings (Toronto).
Fan acceptance of the two affiliated leagues attracted two independent leagues, the Atlantic and the Northern. Neither is bound by the restrictive territorial rules that govern minor leagues linked to the majors.
The Atlantic has five teams playing this season in the region, and the Northern has three: The New Jersey Jackals in Little Falls; the Waterbury (Conn.) Spirit and the Catskill Cougars in Mountain Dale, near Monticello. The eight independent teams draw their players from youngsters never signed by major league teams and veterans who once played in the affiliated minor leagues or the majors and hope to return.
The Atlantic League, now entering its third season, has been the most bullish about expansion, emphasizing baseball as a tool of urban renewal. Its attractive new stadiums, all publicly financed, have gone up in Atlantic City, Bridgeport, Newark and Bridgewater.
Now, the Long Island Ducks start play in the Atlantic League, with Bud Harrelson, star shortstop for the Mets a generation ago and a team co-owner, serving as manager. His pitching coach is a star of the Baltimore Orioles in the late 1960's, Mike Cuellar. The mastermind of the Ducks, and the Atlantic League, is Frank Boulton, the team chairman, who is now enjoying a happy ending to a campaign he started in the early 1990's to bring professional baseball to his native Long Island.
"It's very rewarding, a great sense of accomplishment," Mr. Boulton said of the Ducks, the league's seven other teams, and the one planned for Camden next summer. "Some people like to say I have great vision. I like to say I have a hard head."
Mr. Boulton is the renegade of the region's baseball world. He once was a vice president of the Eastern League, and wanted to transfer a Yankee farm team from Albany to Long Island, but the Mets vetoed the move in 1993 as a violation of their territorial rights.
Instead, Mr. Boulton created the Atlantic League. The newcomers have sharpened competition for fans and shrunk the older teams' geographic markets. Of the four Atlantic League teams now playing, the Somerset Patriots and the Bridgeport Bluefish have been the most popular, drawing home crowds last year that averaged 5,235 and 4,571, respectively. Of all the regional teams, only the Trenton Thunder drew more, an average of 6,197.
Officials of the Somerset club, brimming with confidence after a successful first year, now want to set up a team in Bergen County, New Jersey's most populous. The county executive, William Schuber, is enthusiastic and has ordered a feasibility study. But members of the county Board of Chosen Freeholders have vowed to block any use of public land or money for a stadium.
"Why should taxpayers pay for a private business?" asked the board's most vocal critic, James J. Sheehan. "This is not an essential. I'm opposed to subsidizing the entertainment industry. If it's so successful, they should get financing from a bank."
Mr. Boulton suggested that Camden may be the Atlantic League's last team in New Jersey.
"It's getting pretty dense there," he said. "We have to be real smart about our growth."
For now, he said, the league is looking at Massachusetts and Virginia as possible expansion sites. The league already has teams in Maryland, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania.
Economic development and other government officials praise the renewal value of the teams and the new stadiums, more for burnishing the images of downtowns and enticing new investment than creating thousands of new jobs. The Newark Bears' new stadium opened last year a few blocks from the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, which opened in 1997 and started the city's downtown renaissance.
George Gatta, deputy Suffolk County executive of planning and economic development, said the Long Island Ducks' new stadium completes the transformation of "one of the worst neighborhoods" in the county.
And in Bridgeport, the 18-acre waterfront site where the Bluefish play was once filled with abandoned factories and stores and some burned-out houses. Now a $45 million, 10,000-seat arena and a 900-car parking garage for railroad commuters and baseball fans are going up at the site.
Michael Freimuth, Bridgeport's director of planning and economic development, said the stadium had changed the image of that piece of downtown Bridgeport.
Commuters passing the site on the Metro-North Railroad once saw abandoned factories covered with graffiti. "Now they see 5,000 fans waving at them," Mr. Freimuth said. "That changes one's mind-set about an older city. If image improves, value increases and value draws investment."
The same thing has happened in Trenton since Mercer County and the state invested $21 million for the ballpark, which opened on the Delaware River in 1994.
An empty factory filled the plot, and private developers had no interest in it. The county government gambled on a minor-league stadium, at the time a rarity in New Jersey. The Thunder prospered beyond expectation. The stadium has spurred major riverfront redevelopment, including a county-financed $52 million arena for minor-league hockey and basketball, conversion of an abandoned steel factory into 500 units of senior-citizen housing and a strip mall and supermarket, new office buildings and a new nightclub.
"It's not the cure-all, but it certainly got the image of Trenton changed for the positive," James Lambert, executive director of the Mercer County Improvement Authority, said.
But last season, when the Somerset Patriots moved in about 20 miles north of Trenton, the Thunder's average home attendance dropped to 6,197, from 6,628. That still left the Thunder ranked among the top 25 minor-league clubs in the country, but it was the team's first attendance drop in its six seasons.
Rick Brenner, the team's general manager, said the Patriots were not a factor in the drop. He blamed highway construction near the stadium, which caused the cancellation of six afternoon games popular with day campers. Both Mr. Brenner and officials in Somerset said they did not believe the two teams were competing for fans.
Similarly, officials of the Newark Bears and the New Jersey Jackals said they did not think they were chasing the same fans, even though their stadiums were only about 10 miles apart.
"There are probably still a million people in northern New Jersey who don't know about the New Jersey Jackals," said Leo Kirk, the team's general manager. "In two to three years, we'll probably have saturated the market enough to know where we stand with the Bears."
Joseph Seneca, chairman of the New Jersey Council of Economic Advisers and a vice president for academic affairs at Rutgers, said the region's economy was at its strongest point in a generation. The minor-league expansion, he said, was not stretched too thin.
"This region can accommodate a lot," Dr. Seneca said. "It's a huge market."
But in Connecticut, the three Eastern League teams are jittery about competition. Attendance for the New Haven and Norwich teams had already been slipping when the Bridgeport Bluefish came to their new stadium in 1998. The Bluefish drew an average crowd of about 4,500 last year, while New Haven and Norwich had averages of about 2,900 and 3,700, respectively. Both the Ravens and Navigators had drawn over 4,000 people in their first two years, in 1994 and 1995.
Chris Canetti, New Haven's general manager, said that Bridgeport, about 25 miles west of New Haven, has taken some of his team's fans in Fairfield and Westchester counties.
"It's hard to compete with a new $20 million ball park with every fan amenity imaginable," said Mr. Canetti, whose team plays at 73-year-old Yale Field.
To the north, the owners of the New Britain Rock Cats are nervous about Hartford's hopes to build a $15 million stadium along the Connecticut River for a Northern League team now in Massachusetts. Gov. John G. Rowland opposes giving Hartford any state money because he fears undercutting the state's $12 million investment in 1995 in a new stadium in New Britain, 11 miles from Hartford, said a spokesman, Dean Pagani.
Executives of Connecticut's older teams have also started fighting back against the newcomers by touting their major-league affiliations and criticizing the newer teams' play as bush league.
William F. Dowling, one of New Britain's new owners and a former Yankees executive, called the quality of baseball in the independent leagues "glorified American Legion."
"We've got bona fide potential major leaguers," he said. "All you get in the independents are some retreads and players no one else is interested in."
In Norwich, the uniforms of the Navigators this season will sport the Yankees' logo of top hat and bat as a reminder that the team is part of the Yankee system.
"What's Bridgeport going to do, put a fish on their uniforms?" said Norwich's general manager, Brian Mahoney.
Mr. Boulton, head of the Ducks and the Atlantic League, called criticism of his league's players unfair. He said half of the league's 150 players last season had once played in the major leagues. Mr. Boulton said he believed the league's players were closer to AAA, the top level of player development, than to Class A or the instructional leagues, the lowest farm teams with the rawest prospects, just out of high school or college.
Mr. Kirk, general manager of the Jackals, said the Northern League considered its quality of play to be somewhere between Class A and AA.
"As long as we're good and competitive, it doesn't make any difference if it's A or double-A or triple-A," Mr. Kirk said. "Frankly, the people don't care if they're having a good time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Long Island Ducks' new ballpark in Central Islip may not be finished on opening day. Ben Faulmino sanding a weld, above; Bill Deacon near home plate, below; and billboard space beyond right field. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times); Manager Bud Harrelson and his Ducks in camp last week in Davenport, Fla. (Ernst Peters for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Minor-League Teams: A Profile"
Chart lists the New York region's minor league teams and where they play. (pg. 12)
 
Map of the New York area shows location of the minor league ballparks. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND DUCKS HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND DUCKS

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MINOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (94%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE (74%); CITIES (74%); SPORTS FANS (72%); MOUNTAINS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); COUNTIES (50%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



586 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 4; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Manhattan Office Space;
Dot-Coms Accounted for 25% of First-Quarter Leases

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
IN the first quarter of this year dot-com companies accounted for 25 percent of all the leases executed in Manhattan, eclipsing for the first time the city's traditional mainstay, the banking and finance sector, according to a report by Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services concern.
The company, which has been keeping the figures since 1985, said that the financial sector accounted for more than 15 percent of new leases in the quarter, putting it in second place. 
 The report is an indication of how quickly new-economy companies, which include those involved in e-commerce, new media, network infrastructure, Web technology and software development, have gone from obscurity to become a major factor in the city's real estate market.
This is also illustrated in some figures compiled by Julien J. Studley, a brokerage company specializing in representing tenants. Studley reported that companies in the new-technology sector leased 629,979 square feet of space this January, compared with 252,518 square feet in January 1999, an increase of 249 percent.
Meanwhile, companies in the legal industry signed new leases for 90,611 square feet in January 2000, down from 467,879 in January 1999, and financial companies leased 276,514 square feet in January 2000, a decline from the 350,220 square feet in the year-earlier month.
The new-economy companies have become so important that one of the nation's top brokerage concerns, Insignia/ESG, has established a New Media Group in its organization, to specialize in representing these rapidly growing companies.
"ESG is a big company that knows how to service big companies," said Richard Karson, an executive director of Insignia/ESG and the head of the New Media Group. "We decided to put more concentration on how to service the unique needs of these companies -- particularly the start-ups."
Mr. Karson said these rapidly growing companies put a special emphasis on speed of service but are more adaptable about where they will lease office space than more established organizations.
"Most tenants have an area in mind, but they are flexible about location and have a broader pricing range," he said.
In fact, he said, the whole notion of a Silicon Alley concentrated in Lower Manhattan is outmoded. "Three years ago we were focused on downtown, TriBeCa and Flatiron," he said. "That has all changed."
Today dot-com companies are moving into areas of the city like Chinatown and the meatpacking district that were never previously considered suitable for corporate headquarters. And they are having an impact on the rents in those areas.
A few years ago, space at the Starrett-Lehigh Building at 601 West 26th Street was renting for $6 to $9 a square foot, Mr. Karson said. Today, because of the influx of new-media and technology companies willing to accept a location on the far west side of Manhattan, the rental rate is over $40 a square foot, he said.
Since many of the dot-com companies are start-ups run by young people, with formidable technical skills but little business experience, brokers say it can be tough to convince landlords to rent space to them, even when they come to the table laden with cash from venture capitalists.
The answer, some say, is for the leaders of these start-ups to treat landlords, or their representatives, the same as potential investors and convince them of the bright future in store for their companies.
"We need a lot of support from our clients," said David J. Goldstein, a senior managing director of the Studley company. "We have to convince them that a visit to the landlord is like a road show selling their concept to investors. We encourage our clients to get ready early and be prepared to tell their story at a moment's notice."
HE said it was important to convince prospective landlords that the companies would succeed if they could obtain space, hire people and get their products onto the market before their competitors. He said the task was not made any easier by the fact that many of these companies were consuming their early rounds of financing at a fast rate and were facing a jumpy stock market that might not be ready to accept the initial public offering that many of the dot-com concerns were counting on.
Many landlords are keenly aware of the tenuous situation the dot-coms are in, said Bruce Mosler, an executive vice president of Cushman & Wakefield. Nevertheless, he said, Cushman & Wakefield has assigned several rising executives to seek out dot-com business on a full-time basis.
"Landlords are aware these are noncredit tenants," he said, and many are reluctant to make investments to build out space in their buildings to accommodate them.
But he said there are payment formulas that landlords will accept from companies that are -- at least temporarily -- cash rich. "One way is to pay the landlord's out-of-pocket expenses plus one year of security deposit," he said.
One much-discussed approach -- landlords' accepting stock or warrants to buy stock at a certain price in the dot-coms as additional compensation for providing space in a tight market -- is not yet the custom in New York, Mr. Mosler said.
"Warrants are part of the game on the West Coast, but they are not a factor in New York," he said. Young people building companies are naturally reluctant to give away part of their future just to get office space, he said, and often, there is a more pressingreason as well. "They need those warrants to recruit key employees," he said.
The creativity of a landlord in structuring the financial terms of a lease depends on the nature of the owner of the property, Mr. Goldstein said. An entrepreneurial owner can be a lot more flexible in making deals than an institutional owner like a pension fund or insurance company.
"That sort of thing is only acceptable to an entrepreneurial landlord," said Mr. Goldstein, who added, "I can't think of an example of a deal including warrants or stock options."
Even if they are not trying to get a piece of the companies they rent space to, landlords have cut back sharply on the incentives they were offering just a few years ago. Interior construction allowances that were $35 to $40 a square foot are now down to $10 to $25 a square foot, Mr. Goldstein said.
PERIODS of free rent have declined as well, but have not disappeared, he added, noting that for landlords "it's easier to offer free rent than write a check."
Dot-com companies can often find themselves in a jam by accepting lease terms that later restrict their ability to grow or arrange financing, said Robert Nash, a real estate lawyer who is a partner in the New York law firm of Schulte Roth & Zabel.
And they are not alone. "The truth is that not many tenants know much about real estate," he said. "It's a simple matter: the landlord is in the real estate business, and the tenant is not."
He said inexperienced tenants may agree to leases that are loaded with provisions intended to protect landlords, but that work to the detriment of rapidly evolving companies.
"They may not be able to sublease without consent," he said. "They may not be able to sell shares without the landlord's consent." If there is a provision requiring that a company's net worth stay above a certain level, it could hamper a company's ability to borrow.
He said that dealing with dot-coms can be difficult for a professional advisers like a lawyer, because their top managers are so busy developing new products that they do not have time to be concerned about complex clauses in leases. But it can also be rewarding because the young executives are more willing to accept advice and allow advisers to participate in decision-making.
"The hard part is getting their attention," Mr. Nash said. "Sometimes the only way to reach them, if you can reach them at all, is by e-mail."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David J. Goldstein of Julien J. Studley encourages start-up clients to convince landlords of their bright futures. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD; STUDLEY, JULIEN J, CO CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD; STUDLEY, JULIEN J, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BANKS AND BANKING; LEGAL PROFESSION BANKING & FINANCE (92%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (77%); INTERNET BANKING (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (70%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (70%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (55%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (55%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN; GOLDSTEIN, DAVID J RICHARD KARSON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



587 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 12; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: With Sports and Business, a Drive to Burnish Bridgeport's Image

BYLINE: By FRED MUSANTE 

 BODY:
ROY BOE didn't hesitate when asked why he wanted to own a minor-league hockey team franchise in Bridgeport. "One reason is it's 12 minutes from my house," said Mr. Boe of Southport.
The phenomenal success of the Bridgeport Bluefish, the city's professional baseball team, is another reason. "The Bluefish obviously piqued my interest a lot," he said. 
 The Bluefish sell more tickets in Fairfield than in any other community. They sell even more than they do in their hometown, which has two-and-a-half times the population.
In March, Mr. Boe was selected as the franchise owner for the yet unnamed American Hockey League team that will play out of the 10,000-seat arena the city is building next to Harbor Yard, the Bluefish's stadium. The team will be affiliated with a National Hockey League team and will begin its first season in October 2001, he said.
Besides the fan interest in the prospects for a rivalry with the Hartford Wolf Pack, the A.H.L. franchise in the capital city, the new team also fits into a new economic development strategy for Bridgeport that revolves around tapping outside wealth.
Three business clusters were chosen for concentrating business development efforts: tourism, arts and entertainment; office services such as data processing, and metal manufacturing, a traditional Bridgeport industry that survives but has not done as well there as metal manufacturing has nationally.
Bridgeport has long been known as a gritty, hardscrabble city surrounded by prosperous suburbs, and attracting some of the wealth that surrounded it into the city has been an elusive goal. City officials and business leaders said they may have found a new strategy to do just that.
"The city is learning how to access the region's wealth by the choices we make in the kinds of businesses and industry we pursue," said Michael Freimuth, Bridgeport's director of planning and economic development.
To a large degree, that has meant overcoming long-held perceptions that it wasn't safe to be in the city after dark and that it was a place with bigger plans than it could pull off. In the early 1990's, a high homicide rate, shuttered business properties, high taxes and an adventure in municipal bankruptcy all reinforced that image.
"The city's image was not good for a number of years," said Paul Timpanelli, executive director of the local business council. "It was seen as crime-laden and dirty. Nobody wants to invest their money in a place that's dirty, unsafe and mismanaged."
Then came the Bridgeport Bluefish. "We were surprised at the awakening of city pride," said Mr. Herbert, who noted that merchandise bearing the team's name and logo, a blue fish holding a bat, sold at a rate three times the norm for minor league baseball. Aided by the team's success on the field, the Bluefish have broken attendance records for independent minor-league baseball teams. Mr. Herbert said he expected that advanced ticket sales will reach 250,000 by opening day this Friday, selling more than half of the 450,000-seat attendance for its entire 76-game season.
At the same time, Bridgeport started to receive some business investment.
Although many people in the city immediately concluded that the team was responsible, Mr. Herbert said it was as much the beneficiary of this economic growth as its cause. "The Bluefish was the first tangible evidence that something was going up," he said.
Mr. Boe said he also has his eye on the down-county sports fans. He always thought that Fairfield County would be a good market for a hockey team. The arena will also serve as a site for circus performances, college basketball games, concerts and trade shows. "The building should bring another 750,000 people, maybe a million, to the city of Bridgeport," he said.
A lot of it is serendipity, and some of it is hard work, Mr. Freimuth said. Good economic times helped, but so did the city's success in getting state and federal funding for projects that make the city more attractive for investment. Harbor Yard was built with $19 million in state and local funding; the arena is being financed with a $35 million state grant; and a parking garage between them, which will also serve commuters, is being built with $16 million in federal money.
Lucky timing was helpful in some projects. For example, the city went looking for funds for a new, combined bus-train-commuter parking transportation terminal just as Congress decided to pass a federal transportation bill. But much of the hard work went unnoticed, such as the years of effort the city government made to reorganize itself and restore its credit, which was recently upgraded to an A rating.
With state and federal brownfield program money the city demolished an old electrical equipment manufacturing building and cleaned up the land so that a 70,000-square-foot commercial bakery could be built there. "The Bluefish brought a spotlight to the city, and through that all the other stuff started to show," Mr. Freimuth said. "The Bluefish didn't create a new bakery on State Street."
The city's new emphasis on clusters of businesses, rather than individual businesses, is the application of an economic development approach created by Professor Michael Porter of the Harvard Business School.
Connecticut's Department of Economic and Community Development had already started to use the cluster approach with the state's aerospace and biotechnology industries when, last year, it hired Mr. Porter's consulting organization, Initiative for a Competitive Inner City, to examine the strengths of Bridgeport, Hartford, New Haven, New Britain and Waterbury and help them create growth strategies.
The state wants to move away from the philosophy of grants and loans to individuals and individual businesses and toward grants and loans to clusters of businesses, explained Kevin Nunn, president of the Bridgeport Economic Resource Center, an organization that acts as an economic development marketing arm for the city government.
Claire Kaplan, a vice president of the Initiative for a Competitive Inner City, said the cluster approach is one in which businesses cooperate to compete. The metal manufacturing cluster businesses in Bridgeport, for example, don't make the same products, but they have the same need to train new machine tool craftsmen to replace an aging work force and to use Internet e-commerce technology to market their products.
Company executives were brought together to work out ways they could cooperate for their mutual benefit. They have created a Web site shared by all of the companies, and they are working with Housatonic Community-Technical College to train new workers, Ms. Kaplan said.
The tourism, arts and entertainment cluster was another opportunity for cooperation. The Bridgeport Bluefish attract visitors to the city, and that might create more demand for new restaurants and business services, such as cleaning companies, caterers and equipment rental.
Mr. Nunn said Bridgeport's downtown is compact, and that is an advantage. Within a half-mile of the Bluefish's stadium and the new arena are museums and live theaters that offer baseball fans the opportunity for an extended visit.
But Mr. Herbert, who is leading that cluster initiative, expressed frustration at the difficulty in getting more high-quality restaurants to open downtown. Only one, Ralph and Rich's, was open all week for dinner, "and that place is always packed." Roberto's, next door to the Polka Dot Playhouse, a live theater, is only open part of the week when the playhouse is open.
The third cluster, office services, may be the city's most audacious.
Bridgeport officials have tried to convince corporations with headquarters "down county," in Stamford and Norwalk, to locate their back-office technical operations, such as data processing and e-commerce systems, in Bridgeport.
"We can do it as part of a collaborative approach with the cities of Stamford and Norwalk," Mr. Nunn said. Bridgeport doesn't want to be seen as "poaching" businesses from other communities. Instead, it wants to take a regional approach. Information-processing operations do not have to be located in expensive corporate headquarters office space, and it would be less expensive to put them in Bridgeport than in Stamford. The advantage for Stamford is it frees up office space, allowing more companies to move there, and relieves highway traffic congestion. Employees would be happy to spend less time commuting, and it would also reduce air pollution, he said.
The major obstacle for the office services cluster is that Bridgeport lacks vacant high-quality office space, and the need to build parking garages raises the price for developing it. Mr. Nunn said Bridgeport is trying to obtain federal funding under a program to reduce traffic congestion and improve air quality to subsidize parking garage construction as a way to add new development.
"The challenge is that now it's only a study and the recommendations have to be implemented," Mr. Herbert said of the city's new development strategy. "I think it will be two or three more years to see if this really made a difference."
Perhaps it will have to do with the economy, Mr. Herbert said. If economic conditions remain good, the city has a better chance to achieve its objectives.
"I think it's going to be really interesting to see where we are five years from now," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adjacent to the Bridgeport Bluefish baseball stadium, upper right, construction is under way for a 10,000-seat arena and 900-car parking garage. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HOCKEY LEAGUE; BRIDGEPORT BLUEFISH (MINOR LEAGUE TEAM); HARBOR YARD (CONN) BRIDGEPORT BLUEFISH (90%); AMERICAN HOCKEY LEAGUE (90%); AMERICAN HOCKEY LEAGUE (83%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%); DALLAS STARS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOCKEY LEAGUE; BRIDGEPORT BLUEFISH (MINOR LEAGUE TEAM); HARBOR YARD (CONN) AMERICAN HOCKEY LEAGUE (90%); AMERICAN HOCKEY LEAGUE (83%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%); DALLAS STARS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); EDMONTON OILERS (56%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; HOCKEY, ICE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BASEBALL (91%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (66%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (65%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (65%); CRIME RATES (64%); TRENDS (60%); HOMICIDE (60%); FRANCHISING (58%); 

PERSON: MUSANTE, FRED; BOE, ROY ROY BOE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



588 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes;
In Wilmington, a Historic Theater Expands

BYLINE: By MAUREEN MILFORD 

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del.

 BODY:
BY day, downtown Wilmington is bustling. This city, with a population of 73,000, is the home of such major companies as DuPont and MBNA America Bank, and its courts are often the battleground for major corporate clashes.
But when night falls, Wilmington's business district becomes as lifeless as an abandoned Hollywood movie set. For decades, most office workers have fled to the suburbs once the workday ends. Only the lights and activity at the Hotel du Pont and the Grand Opera House have kept tumbleweed off Market Street Mall in the evenings. 
 Now, things are beginning to stir after dark. Upscale restaurants have opened in the last few years, and the Victorian opera house is in the middle of a $13 million expansion. The hope is that the Grand Opera House complex, known here simply as the Grand, will play an important role in revitalizing downtown Wilmington.
"I estimate it will bring an additional 50,000 people a year downtown," said William C. Wyer, the managing director of the Wilmington Renaissance Corporation, a nonprofit development group. "It's a big key."
The opera house expansion is the first major construction on Market Street since the 1980's building boom that followed the state's passage of the Financial Center Development Act and other laws that brought dozens of financial institutions to Delaware, one of which, MBNA, has played a crucial role in Wilmington's economic and cultural life in recent years.
MBNA's growing role has come at the same time as the DuPont Company, Delaware's best-known employer, has scaled back its business operations downtown, although it continues to own the Hotel du Pont and the Playhouse there, a 1,250-seat theater the company opened in 1913. Today, the Playhouse, which bills itself as "the country's oldest continually operating legitimate theater," is frequently used for Broadway road shows.
TWO blocks away from the Playhouse work is roughly halfway complete on a three-story building that will be connected to the Grand Opera House, built as a theater and Masonic temple in 1871. Its elaborate cast-iron facade was made in Philadelphia for the developer, the Masonic Hall Company of Wilmington. The expansion will include a 300-seat theater, rehearsal rooms, an art gallery and offices. The public opening is scheduled for September.
The 70,000-square-foot building is going up on a 0.4-acre site bought by MBNA for about $3.8 million and donated to the Grand. David W. Spartin, a vice chairman of MBNA and the vice chairman for marketing and development at the Grand, a volunteer post, is overseeing construction.
Attendance at the Grand has risen sharply in recent years, growing to 200,000 people last year, up from 71,703 in 1995.
The addition has been named the Edith and Alexander Giacco Building, in honor of a former chairman of the opera house board and his late wife. Mr. Giacco is the former chief executive of Hercules Inc., a Fortune 500 specialty chemical company based in Wilmington. The entire complex, the Grand and the Giacco Building, is being called the Delaware Center for the Performing Arts.
Kenneth A. Wesler, the executive director of the 1,176-seat opera house, a member of the League of Historic American Theaters, said the new 300-seat theater will accommodate avant-garde music, theater and dance troupes, as well as community performances, which draw smaller audiences.
Stephen M. Bailey, associate director of the Grand and founder of the Eastern Performing Arts Center Coalition, said: "A lot of the performances in the new theater will be what are called 'artist development.' Some of the best stuff happening out there, whether music or experimental dance, is absolutely suited to play a 'large stage-small audience' kind of setup. Artists start somewhere -- they don't start at 1,200 seats."
The theater, named the Baby Grand -- which was also the name of a jazz and rhythm-and-blues club on Wilmington's East Side in the 1950's -- is being wired to allow the theater to respond to the rapid changes the Internet and other technological advances are making to the entertainment business, Mr. Bailey said.
The plans originally called for the architecture of the new construction to mimic the Grand's French Second Empire style. Modeled after the Paris Opera, the Grand's cast-iron facade is painted white to imitate marble.
NOTABLES from a century or more ago all played the Grand, among them Lillie Langtry, Henry Ward Beecher and John Philip Sousa. With the third-largest stage in the country, the theater originally had 1,404 seats, not including the boxes. (Seats were removed in later renovations.)
When the expansion was announced last year, preservationists who saw the architectural renderings contended the new construction would detract from the Grand because it looked too much like it. It would also have played havoc with the Grand's Masonic symbolism. Toni Young, the author of "The Grand Experience: A History of the Grand Opera House," wrote that the architecture was based in part on the numbers 3, 5 and 7, which are significant in Masonic principles. For example, there are five sections to the facade, each with three arches and three keystones on the second and third floors.
The building was altered in the 20th century to serve as a movie house, but it gradually deteriorated. In 1971, 100 years after it was built, a group was organized to restore the opera house, which reopened in 1976.
Because of public concern that the addition might detract from the historic opera house, the Grand management decided to take some architectural cues from one of the two buildings already on the site, the former Loews Aldine Theater, a movie palace built in 1921. Only the facade, the box office and first 25 feet of the theater remained. The rest had been demolished in 1988. The other building on the site was a small store, used most recently as a card shop and not architecturally significant.
Once construction got under way last summer, the Grand's management decided to tear down what remained of the Aldine after discovering that preserving it would cost about $1 million. Preservationists protested, saying the facade was an important part of Wilmington's history. The city's Design Review Commission, which oversees alterations to historic buildings, stopped the demolition, but not before most of what remained of the Aldine was in rubble.
Work resumed on the new building after Grand management agreed to redesign the facade, using cast stone to imitate the Aldine's light-gray terra cotta, which had been made to look like granite. This meant making molds of salvaged architectural elements. Unlike the old Aldine, the new building, designed by Homsey Architects of Wilmington, will have a third floor with curved windows and a mansard roof, a nod to a similar architectural elements at the Grand.
The Giacco Building will be joined to the Grand by a neutral link. What had been the old card shop will contain the stairs and elevators, and although the Grand and the new building will appear separate from the street, there will be an unimpeded flow between the two on the upper floors.
Along with the new construction, the opera house interior has received a $400,000 refurbishing. Last year, 16 artists from Evergreene Painting Studios Inc. in New York, which worked on the restoration of Radio City Music Hall and Grand Central Terminal, painted an intricate gold-leaf band of trompe l'oeil paneling and flowered swags beneath the frescoed ceiling, using historical photographs as a guide.
"All this has contributed to making an historic performing arts center," said Mr. Wyer of the Wilmington Renaissance Corporation. "It's taking us back to our heritage."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new Giacco Building, as it will look next to the Grand Opera House. (William DeFeo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); FIA CARD SERVICES NA (58%); GRAND OPERA HOUSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAND OPERA HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON (DEL); UNITED STATES (97%); DELAWARE, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; GRAND OPERA HOUSE (WILMINGTON, DEL) REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); BANKING LAW (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FILM (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); THEATER (57%); 

PERSON: MILFORD, MAUREEN

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



589 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Getting Rentals Off Regulation

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
AS rents and apartment prices in New York City continue to rise, landlords, among them investor owners of co-ops and condominiums, have been increasing their efforts to deregulate rent-controlled and rent-stabilized apartments, many real-estate lawyers say. And while that may be bad news for some tenants, it could be good news for co-ops that have many renters living in sponsor- or investor-owned apartments.
"With the ever-increasing prices in the rental market, and the out-of-sight prices of co-ops, I've noticed a dramatic increase in the number of 'nonprimary-residence' cases and 'luxury-decontrol' cases being brought against tenants," said Errol A. Brett, a Manhattan real estate lawyer who represents both tenants and co-op boards. 
 A tenant in a rent-regulated apartment must use it as a primary residence. If a landlord believes a tenant has a primary residence elsewhere, and can prove it in court, the apartment can be deregulated. In luxury decontrol, a rent-stabilized apartment can be removed from regulation if the rent is $2,000 a month or more and the gross annual income of the apartment's occupants is $175,000 or more for two years. Using either strategy successfully, Mr. Brett said, can provide a landlord with a deregulated apartment that can be rented or sold at market-rate prices.
"To tenants, apartments are homes," Mr. Brett said. "But to landlords, apartments are investments."
David Ng, a Manhattan landlord-tenant lawyer, said that he, too, had noticed an increase in cases being brought by landlords -- particularly by those who are sponsors or investors who own co-op or condominium apartments -- under the luxury-decontrol provision of the rent-stabilization law.
For a landlord to deregulate an occupied apartment renting for more than $2,000 a month, Mr. Ng said, he must first send a document to the tenant asking whether the household income exceeds the $175,000 threshold. If the tenant does not respond within 60 days, Mr. Ng said, the landlord can then petition the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal for an automatic deregulation order. In most cases, he said, the division will grant the order if the tenant has not complied with the landlord's request for information.
Even if the tenant responds to the landlord's query and says the income threshold has not been exceeded, Mr. Ng said, most landlords will exercise their right to ask the division to verify the tenant's income against state tax records. Such persistence, Mr. Ng said, can provide a significant benefit for the landlord.
Once an apartment is deregulated, Mr. Ng said, the landlord must offer it to the tenant at a market rate rent. If the tenant declines, the landlord can rent it at market rate to anyone. If the apartment is a co-op or a condo, the sponsor or investor can either rent out the unit, sell it, or even combine it with an adjacent unit he may own in the building.
Colleen F. McGuire, a Manhattan lawyer who represents tenants, said that landlords can also decline to renew the lease of a tenant who does not use a regulated apartment as a primary residence.
"It's the landlord's burden to prove that a rent-stabilized apartment is not being used as a primary residence," Ms. McGuire said. On the other hand, a tenant's saying that an apartment is his primary residence is not necessarily enough. "The courts will look at a wealth of information to determine primary residency," she said.
A landlord first must provide the tenant with written notice that the landlord has reason to believe the tenant is not occupying the apartment as a primary residence. If the tenant refuses to vacate the apartment when the lease expires, Ms. McGuire said, the landlord can start eviction proceedings. And at that point, Ms. McGuire said, the landlord is entitled to obtain all information in the possession of the tenant that may be pertinent to the landlord's claim.
"That means the landlord can get copies of your phone bills, your credit card statements, your bank accounts, your driver's license, tax returns, voting records and even your magazine subscriptions," she said, adding that tenants may black out personal financial information on any of the forms. "Then the landlord can use all those documents to create a set of footprints to show where you're really spending your time."
While no single document would be considered absolute proof of primary residency, Ms. McGuire said, some documents carry greater weight than others. Tax returns, driver's licenses and voting records, for example, would generally be considered a fairly reliable indication of where one's primary residence is. At the same time, however, simply using the address of the rent-stabilized apartment on such forms is not, in and of itself, enough to protect a tenant who is using another home as a primary residence.
"There are lots of things that can wave a red flag to a landlord," Ms. McGuire said, explaining, for example, that if a tenant has credit card bills sent to a New York City address, but the charges on the bills throughout the year are from merchants and restaurants in, say, Florida, then the tenant would have a hard time convincing a judge that he or she spent most of the year in New York. And while a tenant who spends 183 days or more in an apartment will generally be considered to be using the apartment as a primary residence, it is not always just the tenant who is counting the days.
"Some landlords will even hire a private investigator to track a tenant's movements," Ms. McGuire said.
But why would a landlord go to such expense just to be able to decline to renew a rent-stabilized tenant's lease if the apartment itself remains under stabilization?
"Because in most cases, the apartments don't remain under stabilization," said Mr. Ng, the landlord-tenant lawyer. A regulated apartment in a co-op or condo becomes deregulated as soon as the tenant departs. In a rental building, once a landlord has been successful in evicting a tenant from a rent-stabilized apartment, the landlord can make whatever capital improvements are necessary to bring the rent for the vacant apartment above $2,000, thereby exempting it from rent stabilization.
Mr. Ng explained that by law, the landlord can increase the monthly rent for the apartment by 1/40th of whatever amount has been spent on capital improvements. That amount, when combined with the permitted vacancy allowance of as much as 20 percent, can easily raise the monthly rent of many apartments above the $2,000 threshold.
Alan D. Kucker, a Manhattan lawyer who frequently represents landlords, said that the landlords are basically doing what prudence dictates and the law allows.
"It's no great secret that landlords make decisions based on sound investment analysis," he said. "So when the time is right to rent apartments, they rent them. And when conditions are right to make a profit by selling, they do what they can within the law to sell them."
Arthur I. Weinstein, vice president of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums, said that he, too, has noticed an increase in the number of co-op sponsors and investors using aggressive strategies to remove apartments from regulation. But that, he said, is good news for co-ops.
"Co-ops are very desirous of sponsors selling their units," Mr. Weinstein said, explaining that buildings with high numbers of rental tenants often have difficulty getting financing for share loans and underlying mortgages. "A co-op is absolutely delighted to have as many sponsor sales as possible. It makes for a much healthier co-op."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION; COOPERATIVES; CONDOMINIUMS RENT CONTROL (96%); DEREGULATION (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PETITIONS (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY DAVID NG (86%); COLLEEN F MCGUIRE (81%); ERROL A BRETT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



590 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3009 words

HEADLINE: The Bases Are Loaded;
Minor League Baseball Is on a Streak, but How Many Teams Are Too Many?

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY

 BODY:
THERE will be speeches. A politician or two will limber up a rusty arm to lob ceremonial first pitches. An umpire will shout the traditional command, and minor-league baseball will come to Long Island, following a trend that has swept the New York region.
The debut of the Long Island Ducks this Friday night, in a gleaming new $19.9 million stadium in Central Islip, will follow a script that has played out several times in just the last six summers in New Jersey, Connecticut and the Hudson Valley. Last year, it happened in Newark and Bridgewater. The year before it was Bridgeport, Conn., and Atlantic City. Next year, under current plans, it will be Camden. 
 A decade ago, the region had only one minor-league team, in New Britain, Conn. This season, with the arrival of the Ducks and new teams in Queens and the Catskills, there will be 16 teams playing in four leagues within 100 miles of Times Square.
Baseball executives cite two overriding reasons for the growth in the region and elsewhere: the popularity of two baseball movies in the past dozen years, "Field of Dreams" and "Bull Durham," and new, fan-friendly stadiums, most of them built with taxpayer money from cities and towns that have turned to the sport for help in reviving run-down or dormant neighborhoods and polishing their images. These communities have pumped millions of state and county dollars into new stadiums; the Ducks alone have reaped nearly $20 million in public funds for their new stadium.
In many places, the investment appears to have paid off. The success of Trenton's team has led to construction of an arena and other new development. Bridgeport, too, is building an arena. The Ducks' new stadium finishes a major redevelopment project in Central Islip that includes a gleaming new federal courthouse, a state courthouse and hundreds of units of new housing.
But as the roster of teams grows, some of the ball clubs are starting to ask how many are too many. In Connecticut, where some of the older teams are leery of an upstart in Bridgeport and a proposed team in Hartford, the old guard is starting to snipe at the newcomers and fret about them muscling in on their territory.
And some industry analysts are wondering just how long the interest will last, and what will happen to public investments if the novelty wanes.
"There certainly is going to be a saturation point," said Andrew Zimbalist, a professor of economics at Smith College in Northampton, Mass., and a student of baseball finance. "I think they may be pushing up against it now. But the jury's still out."
For now, experts say a mix of novelty and a fresh love for the age-old essence of baseball has made the minor leagues appealing.
"It represents an older America that we crave," said Michael Aaron Rockland, chairman of the American studies department at Rutgers University. "It represents a softer, sweeter, slower time. Most of us are sick and tired of living by the clock. Here's a game that doesn't go by the clock. Baseball offers us a vision of peace, quietude and timelessness."
Such qualities can also be applied to major-league baseball. But promoters of the minor-league variety add a few more nouns, like value and intimacy. Their games are affordable for most families, with most tickets priced under $10, rivaling movies, bowling alleys and amusement parks.
The new stadiums are closer to home for many fans; the Ducks' new EAB Stadium, for instance, is a godsend for Long Islanders weary of trips west to Shea and Yankee Stadiums.
Lou Ottens of Clinton has forsaken the Yankees for the Somerset Patriots, now two years old, in their new brick and steel stadium in Bridgewater. "Traffic on the George Washington Bridge and the stadium parking lots are too much of a hassle," Mr. Ottens said. "Now I just have to go 20 minutes from my home."
Mr. Ottens stopped by the ballpark the other day and bought seven tickets for the Patriots second home game for $59.50. He and his wife plan to share them with any of their 20 nieces and nephews who want to go to the game. Such an outing to Yankee Stadium would have been too expensive, he said.
"Plus, I honestly feel these players will give you a better game than the guys in the majors because they have something to prove," he said. "They're working with a goal -- they want to get to the majors. Sometimes I feel the guys already there don't particularly give you a good game sometimes."
Bob Tait and his wife, Marion, have tickets for half the Patriots' 70 home games. "It's absolutely great entertainment," Mr. Tait said. "There's thousands of people around here who can't get away from taking care of their kids, so they just take them to the ballpark. It's safe, it's wholesome, it's close to home, and there's great community spirit."
Joe Tozzi, 42, of Piscataway, came to buy two Patriots polo shirts in the park's gift shop, well stocked with team umbrellas, waste cans, caps, clothing and seat cushions. He saw several games last summer with his brother Phil and his nephew, 9, and niece, 5. "It's not as restraining for the kids as Yankee Stadium, where they have to stay in their seats," he said. "Here, they can walk around. It's like a big picnic. Everybody seems to know everybody else."
Last season, the 13 minor-league clubs that played in the region drew nearly 2.7 million fans. The Yankees drew 3.3 million fans, a team record, and the Mets attracted 2.8 million, and officials of both teams say they are not worried about losing fans.
"There's enough baseball fans out there," said Jason Zillo, a spokesman for the Yankees. "People want to see good baseball and right now we're providing that to the fans."
But David Howard, the Mets senior vice president for business affairs, criticized the level of play on teams without organizational links to the majors.
"While it may be entertainment, it's not going to be high quality baseball," Mr. Howard said. "When the fans come out to Shea, they will appreciate even more so that we have the best athletes in the world playing the game on an entirely different level."
The new ballparks hold from 5,000 to 7,000 fans. They all have bright, well-stocked concession stands, seating close to the field and excellent sight lines. Most have picnic pavilions and playgrounds, video arcades, plenty of music and flashy outfield scoreboards with big video screens. Team mascots mingle with fans. Children celebrating birthdays are serenaded by the stadium organist, with the fans joining in. Players are routinely made available for autographs. Promotional giveaways are common. Before the Atlantic City Surf's games, the team president, Ken Shepard, sells freshly baked chocolate chip cookies, 2 for $1, behind home plate.
Cultural experts say something deeper than gimmickry has spurred the resurgence. Sean Wilentz, a history professor at Princeton University and director of its American Studies Program, cites "baby boomer nostalgia."
"You feel closer to the players, closer to the other fans," Professor Wilentz said. "It's a more human feel. And then there's all this cornball stuff, the little contests. It's much more community-oriented. And there's none of the drunkenness and vulgarity you see at some major-league stadiums."
Fifty years ago, long before the minor leagues refashioned themselves as family-friendly, the teams were little more than training grounds for potential major-leaguers in hundreds of small towns and moderate-sized cities. At the height of their popularity in 1949 the leagues drew nearly 40 million fans.
But in the early 1950's, attendance started eroding with the rapid spread of television and home air-conditioning, said Miles Wolff, commissioner of the Northern League, one of the five independent leagues. The slump continued during the Vietnam War and the sour political and cultural mood it created, he said. By 1969, minor-league attendance had slipped to about 10 million. It remained stagnant for about 15 years. Now it's back to where it was before, with attendance of 40.2 million in 1999.
At the game's low point in the New York region a decade ago, only New Britain fielded a team.
Then in 1994 and 1995, three new regional teams joined New Britain in the Eastern League, a Class AA league two steps below the majors: The Trenton Thunder (Red Sox), the Norwich Navigators (Yankees) and the New Haven Ravens (Mariners). At the same time, the New York-Penn League, a Class A league, three rungs below the majors, came to the region with the Hudson Valley Renegades (Tampa Bay Devil Rays) in Fishkill in Dutchess County, and the New Jersey Cardinals (St. Louis) in rural Sussex County. Last season, the league added the Staten Island Yankees (Yankees) and this summer will add the Queens Kings (Toronto).
Fan acceptance of the two affiliated leagues has attracted two independent leagues, the Atlantic and the Northern. Neither is bound by the restrictive territorial rules that govern minor leagues linked to the majors. Therefore, they can play wherever they are welcome.
The Atlantic has five teams playing this season in the region, and the Northern has three, The New Jersey Jackals, at Yogi Berra Stadium in Little Falls; the Waterbury (Conn.) Spirit and the Catskill Cougars in Mountain Dale, N.Y., near Monticello. The eight independent teams draw their players from youngsters never signed by major league teams and veterans who once played in the affiliated minor leagues or the majors and hope to return to them.
The Atlantic League, now entering its third season, has been the most bullish about expansion, emphasizing baseball as a tool of urban renewal. Its attractive new stadiums, all publicly financed, have gone up in Atlantic City, Bridgeport, Newark and Bridgewater.
Now, the Long Island Ducks start play in the Atlantic League, with Bud Harrelson, star shortstop for the Mets a generation ago and a team co-owner, serving as its manager. The mastermind of the Ducks, and the Atlantic League, is Frank Boulton, the team chairman now enjoying a happy ending to a campaign he started in the early 1990's to bring professional baseball to his native Long Island.
"It's very rewarding, a great sense of accomplishment," Mr. Boulton said of the Ducks, the league's seven other teams, and the one planned for Camden next summer. "Some people like to say I have great vision. I like to say I have a hard head."
Mr. Boulton, 49-year-old former high school catcher in Brightwaters, his hometown, is the renegade of the region's baseball world. He once was an executive in the Yankee system and a vice president of the Eastern League. He wanted to transfer a Yankee farm team from Albany to Long Island. But the Mets vetoed the move in 1993 as a violation of their territorial rights.
Instead, Mr. Boulton created the Atlantic League, free of the rules giving major-league clubs and their farm teams power to keep new teams from their territories. The newcomers have sharpened competition for fans and shrunk the older teams' geographic markets. Of the four Atlantic League teams now playing, the Somerset Patriots and Bridgeport Bluefish have been the most popular, drawing home crowds last year that averaged 5,235 and 4,571, respectively. Of all the regional teams, only the Trenton Thunder drew more, an average of 6,197.
Officials of the Somerset club, brimming with confidence after a successful first year, now want to set up a team in Bergen County, New Jersey's most populous county. The county executive, William Schuber, is enthusiastic and has ordered a feasibility study. But members of Bergen's Board of Chosen Freeholders have vowed to block any use of public parkland or public money for a stadium.
"Why should taxpayers pay for a private business?" asked the board's most vocal critic, James J. Sheehan. "This is not an essential. I'm opposed to subsidizing the entertainment industry. If it's so successful, they should get financing from a bank."
Mr. Boulton suggested that Camden may be the Atlantic League's last team in New Jersey.
"It's getting pretty dense there," he said. "We have to be real smart about our growth."
For now, he said, the league is looking at Massachusetts and Virginia as possible expansion sites. The league already has teams in Maryland, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania.
Economic development and other government officials praise the urban renewal value of the teams and the new stadiums, more for burnishing the images of downtowns and enticing new investment than creating thousands of new inner-city jobs. The Newark Bears' new stadium opened last year a few blocks from the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, which opened in 1997 and started the city's downtown renaissance.
George Gatta, deputy Suffolk County executive of planning and economic development, said the Long Island Ducks' new stadium completes the transformation of "one of the worst neighborhoods" in the county.
And in Bridgeport, Conn., the 18-acre waterfront site where the Bluefish play was once filled with abandoned factories and stores, empty gasoline stations and some burned-out houses. Now a $45 million, 10,000-seat arena and a 900-car parking garage for railroad commuters and baseball fans are going up at the site.
Michael Freimuth, Bridgeport's director of planning and economic development, said the stadium had changed the image of that piece of downtown Bridgeport. Commuters passing the site on the Metro-North Railroad once saw abandoned factories covered with graffiti. "Now they see 5,000 fans waving at them," Mr. Freimuth said. "That changes one's mind-set about an older city. If image improves, value increases and value draws investment."
The same thing has happened in Trenton since Mercer County and the state invested $21 million for the ballpark that opened on the Delaware River in 1994.
An empty factory filled the plot, and private developers had no interest in it. The county government gambled on a minor-league stadium, at the time a rarity in New Jersey. The Thunder prospered beyond expectation. The stadium has spurred major riverfront redevelopment, including a county-financed $52 million arena for minor-league hockey and basketball, conversion of an abandoned steel factory into 500 units of senior-citizen housing and a strip mall and supermarket, new office buildings and a new nightclub.
"It's not the cure-all, but it certainly got the image of Trenton changed for the positive," James Lambert, executive director of the Mercer County Improvement Authority, said of baseball.
But last season, when the Somerset Patriots moved in about 20 miles north of Trenton, the Thunder's average home attendance dropped to 6,197 from 6,628. That still left the Thunder ranked among the top 25 minor-league clubs in the country, but it was the team's first attendance drop in its six seasons of play.
Rick Brenner, the team's general manager, said the Patriots were not a factor in the drop. He blamed highway construction near the stadium, which caused the cancellation of six afternoon games popular with day campers. Both Mr. Brenner and officials in Somerset said they did not believe the two teams were competing for fans.
Similarly, officials of the Newark Bears and the New Jersey Jackals said they did not think they were chasing the same fans, even though their stadiums were only about 10 miles apart.
"There are probably still a million people in northern New Jersey who don't know about the New Jersey Jackals," said Leo Kirk, the team's general manager. "In two to three years, we'll probably have saturated the market enough to know where we stand with the Bears."
Joseph Seneca, chairman of the New Jersey Council of Economic Advisers and a vice president for academic affairs at Rutgers, said the region's economy was at its strongest point in a generation. The minor-league expansion, Dr. Seneca said, was not stretched too thin.
"This region can accommodate a lot," he said. "It's a huge market."
But in Connecticut, the three Eastern League teams are jittery about competition. Attendance for the New Haven and Norwich teams had already been slipping when the Bridgeport Bluefish came to their new stadium in 1998. The Bluefish drew an average crowd of about 4,500 last year, while New Haven and Norwich had averages of about 2,900 and 3,700, respectively. Both the Ravens and Navigators had drawn more than 4,000 people in their first two years of operation in 1994 and 1995.
Executives of Connecticut's older teams have started fighting back against the newcomers by touting their major-league affiliations and criticizing the newer teams' play as bush league.
William F. Dowling, an owner of the New Britain Rock Cats and a former Yankee executive, called the quality of baseball in the independent leagues "glorified American Legion."
"We've got bona fide potential major leaguers," he said. "All you get in the independents are some retreads and players no one else is interested in." In Norwich, the uniforms of the Navigators this season will sport the Yankees' logo of top hat and bat as a reminder that the team is part of the Yankee system.
"What's Bridgeport going to do, put a fish on their uniforms?" said Norwich's general manager, Brian Mahoney.
But Mr. Boulton, head of the Ducks and the Atlantic League, called criticism of his league's players unfair. He said half of the league's 150 players last season had once played in the major leagues and many were hoping to return. Mr. Boulton said he believed the league's players were closer to AAA, the top level of player development, than to Class A or the instructional leagues, the lowest farm teams with the rawest prospects just out of high school or college.
Mr. Kirk, general manager of the Jackals of the Northern League, said that league considered its quality of play to be somewhere between Class A and AA. "As long as we're good and competitive, it doesn't make any difference if it's A or double-A or triple-A," Mr. Kirk said. "Frankly, the people don't care if they're having a good time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Trenton Thunder has prospered beyond expectation. The stadium on the Delaware, which opened in 1994, has spurred major riverfront redevelopment, including a county-financed $52 million arena for minor-league hockey and basketball. Young fans, above, seek autographs from the team, below, at the season opener against New Haven. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 8); An empty factory filled the plot where the Trenton Thunder now plays. When private developers passed, Mercer county gambled and won. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Minor-League Teams: A Profile" shows the New York region's minor-league teams and where they play, along with stadium information including prices, capacities, and government financing. (pg. 8)
 
Map shows the location of the stadiums in the New York area. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (95%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); TRENDS (78%); SPORTS FANS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); MOUNTAINS (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); COUNTIES (50%); 

PERSON: BOB TAIT (55%); LOU OTTENS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



591 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2540 words

HEADLINE: Take Me Out to the Crowd;
Hope of Urban Renewal Leads to an Explosion of Minor-League Teams

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY 

 BODY:
THERE will be speeches. A politician or two will limber up a rusty arm to lob ceremonial first pitches. An umpire will shout the traditional command, and minor-league baseball will come to Long Island, following a trend that has swept the New York region.
The debut of the Long Island Ducks this Friday night, in a gleaming new $19.9 million stadium in Central Islip, will follow a script that has played out several times in just the last six summers in Connecticut, New Jersey and the Hudson Valley. Last year, it happened in Newark and Bridgewater, N.J. The year before it was Bridgeport and Atlantic City. Next year, under current plans, it will be Camden. 
 A decade ago, the region had only one minor-league team, in New Britain. With the arrival of the Ducks and new teams in Queens and the Catskills this season, there will be 16 teams playing in four leagues within 100 miles of Times Square.
Baseball executives cite two overriding reasons for the growth in the region and elsewhere: the popularity of two baseball movies, "Field of Dreams" and "Bull Durham" a few years ago, and new, fan-friendly stadiums, most of them built with taxpayer money from cities and towns that have turned to the sport for help in reviving run-down or dormant neighborhoods and polishing their overall images. These communities have pumped millions of state and county dollars into new stadiums; the Ducks alone have reaped nearly $20 million in public funds for their new stadium.
In many places, the investment appears to have paid off. The Ducks' new stadium finishes a major redevelopment project in Central Islip that includes a gleaming new federal courthouse, a state courthouse and hundreds of units of new housing. The success of Trenton's team has led to construction of an arena and other new development.
And in Bridgeport, the 18-acre waterfront site where the Bluefish play was once filled with abandoned factories and stores, empty gasoline stations and some burned-out houses. Now a $45 million, 10,000-seat arena and a 900-car parking garage for railroad commuters and baseball fans are going up at the site.
Michael Freimuth, Bridgeport's director of planning and economic development, said the stadium has changed the image of that piece of downtown Bridgeport. Commuters passing the site on the Metro-North Railroad once saw abandoned factories covered with graffiti. "Now they see 5,000 fans waving at them," Mr. Freimuth said. "That changes one's mindset about an older city. If image improves, value increases and value draws investment."
But as the roster of teams grows, some of the ball clubs are starting to ask how many are too many. In Connecticut, where some of the older teams are leery of the Bluefish and a proposed team in Hartford, the old guard is starting to snipe at the newcomers and fret about them muscling in on their territory.
And some industry analysts are wondering how long the interest will last, and what will happen to public investments if the novelty wanes.
"There certainly is going to be a saturation point," said Andrew Zimbalist, a professor of economics at Smith College in Northampton, Mass., and a student of baseball finance. "I think they may be pushing up against it now. But the jury's still out."
For now, experts say a mix of novelty and a fresh love for the age-old essence of baseball has made the minor leagues appealing.
"It represents an older America that we crave," said Michael Aaron Rockland, chairman of the American studies department at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J. "Baseball offers us a vision of peace, quietude and timelessness."
Such qualities can also be applied to major-league baseball. But promoters of the minor-league variety add a few more nouns, like value and intimacy. Their games are affordable for most families, with most tickets priced under $10, rivaling movies, bowling alleys and amusement parks.
The new stadiums are closer to home for many fans; the Ducks' new EAB Stadium, for instance, is a godsend for Long Islanders weary of trips to Shea and Yankee Stadiums.
Lou Ottens of Clinton, N.J., has forsaken the Yankees for the Somerset Patriots, now 2 years old, in their new stadium in Bridgewater, N.J. "Traffic on the George Washington bridge and the stadium parking lots are too much of a hassle," Mr. Ottens said. "Now I just have to go 20 minutes from my home."
The new ballparks hold between 5,000 and 7,000 fans. They all have bright, well-stocked concession stands, close-to-the-field seating and excellent sight lines. Most have picnic pavilions and playgrounds, video arcades, plenty of music and flashy outfield scoreboards with big video screens. Team mascots mingle with fans. Children celebrating birthdays are serenaded by the stadium organist, with the fans joining in. Players are routinely made available for autographs. Promotional giveaways are common. Before the Atlantic City Surf's games, the team president, Ken Shepard, sells freshly baked chocolate chip cookies, 2 for $1, behind home plate.
Cultural experts say something deeper than gimmickry has spurred the resurgence. Sean Wilentz, a history professor at Princeton University and director of its American Studies Program, cites "baby-boomer nostalgia."
"You feel closer to the players, closer to the other fans," he said. "It's a more human feel. And then there's all this cornball stuff, the little contests. It's much more community-oriented. And there's none of the drunkenness and vulgarity you see at some major-league stadiums."
Fifty years ago, long before the minor leagues refashioned themselves as family-friendly, the teams were little more than training grounds for potential major-leaguers in hundreds of small towns and moderate-sized cities around the country. At the height of their popularity in 1949 the leagues drew nearly 40 million fans. But in the early 1950's, attendance started eroding with the spread of television and home air conditioning, said Miles Wolff, commissioner of the Northern League, one of the five independent leagues. The slump continued during the Vietnam War and the sour political and cultural mood it created, he said. By 1969, minor-league attendance had slipped to about 10 million. It remained stagnant for about 15 years.
At the game's low point in the New York region a decade ago, only New Britain fielded a team, a farm team of the Boston Red Sox that played in the Eastern League, a Class AA league two steps below the majors.
New Britain is now affiliated with the Minnesota Twins. And it is no longer alone.
In 1994 and 1995, three new regional teams joined the Eastern League: the Trenton Thunder (Red Sox), the Norwich Navigators (Yankees) and the New Haven Ravens (Mariners.) At the same time, the New York-Penn League, a Class A league, three rungs below the majors, came to the region with the Hudson Valley Renegades (Tampa Bay Devil Rays) in Fishkill in Dutchess, and the New Jersey Cardinals (St. Louis) in rural Sussex County. Last season, the league added the Staten Island Yankees (Yankees) and this summer will add the Queens Kings (Toronto).
Fan acceptance of the two affiliated leagues has spawned the arrival of two independent leagues since 1998, the Atlantic and the Northern. Neither is bound by the restrictive territorial rules that govern minor leagues linked to the majors. Therefore, they can play wherever they are welcome.
The Atlantic has five teams playing this season in the region, and the Northern three, the New Jersey Jackals, at Yogi Berra Stadium in Little Falls, N.J.; the Catskill Cougars in Mountainside, N.Y., and the Waterbury Spirit. The eight independent teams draw their players from youngsters never signed by major-league teams and veterans who once played in the affiliated minor leagues or the majors and hope to return to them.
The Atlantic League, now entering its third season, has been the most bullish about expansion, emphasizing baseball as a tool of urban renewal. Its attractive new stadiums, all publicly financed, have gone up in Atlantic City, Bridgeport, Newark and Bridgewater.
Now, the Long Island Ducks start play in the Atlantic League, with Bud Harrelson, star shortstop for the Mets a generation ago and a team co-owner, serving as its manager. The mastermind of the Ducks, and the Atlantic League, is Frank Boulton, the team chairman now enjoying a happy ending to a campaign he started in the early 1990's to bring professional baseball to his native Long Island.
"It's very rewarding, a great sense of accomplishment," Mr. Boulton said of the Ducks, the league's four other active teams, and the one planned for Camden next summer. "Some people like to say I have great vision. I like to say I have a hard head."
Mr. Boulton, a 49-year-old former high school catcher, is the renegade of the region's baseball world. He once was an executive in the Yankee system and a vice president of the Eastern League. He wanted to transfer a Yankee farm team from Albany to Long Island. But the Mets vetoed the move in 1993 as a violation of their territorial rights.
Instead, Mr. Boulton created the Atlantic League, free of the rules giving major-league clubs and their farm teams power to keep new teams from their territories. The newcomers have sharpened competition for fans and shrunk the older teams' geographic markets. Of the four Atlantic League teams now playing, the Somerset Patriots and Bridgeport Bluefish have been the most popular, drawing home crowds that averaged 5,235 and 4,571, respectively, last year. Of all the regional teams, only the Trenton Thunder drew more, an average of 6,197.
Officials of the Somerset club, brimming with confidence after a successful first year, now want to set up a team in Bergen County, New Jersey's most populous county. The county executive, William Schuber, is enthusiastic and has ordered a feasibility study. But members of Bergen's Board of Chosen Freeholders have vowed to block any use of public parkland or public money for a stadium.
"Why should taxpayers pay for a private business?" asked the board's most vocal critic, James J. Sheehan. "This is not an essential. I'm opposed to subsidizing the entertainment industry. If it's so successful, they should get financing from a bank."
Mr. Boulton suggested that Camden may be the Atlantic League's last team in New Jersey.
"It's getting pretty dense there," he said. "We have to be real smart about our growth."
For now, he said, the league is looking at Massachusetts and Virginia as possible expansion sites. The league already has teams in Maryland, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania.
Economic development and other government officials praise the urban renewal value of the teams and the new stadiums, more for burnishing the images of downtowns and enticing new investment than creating thousands of new inner-city jobs. The Newark Bears' new stadium opened last year a few blocks from the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, which opened in 1997 and started the city's downtown renaissance.
George Gatta, deputy Suffolk County executive of planning and economic development, said the Long Island Ducks' new stadium completes the transformation of "one of the worst neighborhoods" in the county.
In Connecticut, the three Eastern League teams are jittery about all the competition. Attendance for the New Haven and Norwich teams had already been slipping when the Bridgeport Bluefish came to their new stadium in 1998. The Bluefish drew an average crowd of about 4,500 last year, while New Haven and Norwich had averages of about 2,900 and 3,700, respectively. Both the Ravens and Navigators had drawn more than 4,000 people in their first two years of operation in 1994 and 1995.
Chris Canetti, New Haven's general manager, said that Bridgeport has taken some of his team's fans in Fairfield and Westchester counties.
"It's hard to compete with a new $20 million ballpark with every fan amenity imaginable," said Mr. Canetti, whose team plays at 73-year-old Yale Field.
To the north, the owners of the New Britain Rock Cats are nervous about Hartford's hopes to build a $15 million stadium along the Connecticut River for a Northern League team now in Massachusetts. Gov. John G. Rowland opposes giving Hartford any state money because he fears undercutting the state's $12 million investment in 1995 in a new stadium in New Britain, 11 miles from Hartford, said a spokesman, Dean Pagani.
William F. Dowling, one of New Britain's new owners and a former executive vice president of the New York Yankees, praised the state's decision as a wise regional approach to minor-league baseball in Connecticut. New Britain's attendance has lagged behind that of the other regional teams for years. Its new owners have mounted an aggressive new marketing campaign to attract new fans. And they were buoyed by a record crowd of 6,452 at the Rock Cats's opening game on April 7.
Hartford's mayor, Michael P. Peters, is looking to the private sector to help finance a stadium for Hartford's first minor-league team in 50 years.
Waterbury wants to build a new $10 million stadium to replace the 70-year-old home field of its team, the Spirit, of the Northern League. Governor Rowland has not ruled out state money for Waterbury because its marketing area does not overlap New Britain's, Mr. Pagani said.
Joseph Seneca, chairman of the New Jersey Council of Economic Advisers and a vice president for academic affairs at Rutgers, said that the region's economy is at its strongest point in a generation. The minor-league expansion, he said, was not stretched too thin.
"This region can accommodate a lot," Dr. Seneca said. "It's a huge market."
Still, executives of Connecticut's older teams have started fighting back against the newcomers by touting their major-league affiliations and criticizing the newer teams' play as bush league.
Mr. Dowling called the quality of baseball in the independent leagues "glorified American Legion."
"We've got bonafide potential major leaguers," he said. "All you get in the independents are some retreads and players no one else is interested in." In Norwich, the uniforms of the Navigators this season will sport the Yankees' logo of top hat and bats as a constant reminder that the team is part of the Yankee system.
"What's Bridgeport going to do, put a fish on their uniforms?" said Norwich's general manager, Brian Mahoney.
Mr. Boulton, head of the Ducks and the Atlantic League, called criticism of his league's players unfair. He said half of the league's 150 players last season had once played in the major leagues and many were hoping to return. Mr. Boulton said he believed the league's players were closer to Class AAA, the top level of player development, than to Class A or the instructional leagues, the lowest farm teams with the rawest prospects just out of high school or college.
Mr. Kirk, general manager of the Jackals of the Northern League, said that league considers its quality of play to be somewhere between Class A and AA. "As long as we're good and competitive, it doesn't make any difference if it's A or Double A or Triple A," Mr. Kirk said. "Frankly, the people don't care if they're having a good time."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fans stand for the national anthem at the opening game for the Trenton Thunder in New Jersey. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times); One of the new owners of the New Britain Rock Cats, William F. Dowling (in team jacket) speaking with businessmen at the stadium. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 12); Work goes on at the parking garage, below, at Bluefish stadium, above. Top inset, William F. Dowling of the New Britain Rock Cats. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald and George Ruhe, top inset, for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Minor-League Teams: A Profile"
Chart lists the New York region's minor league teams and where they play along with prices and attendance records. (pg. 12)
 
Map of the New York area shows location of the minor league ballparks. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NEW HAVEN RAVENS (BASEBALL TEAM); NEW BRITAIN ROCK CATS (BASEBALL TEAM); BRIDGEPORT BLUEFISH (MINOR LEAGUE TEAM); WATERBURY SPIRIT (BASEBALL TEAM) HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW HAVEN RAVENS (BASEBALL TEAM); NEW BRITAIN ROCK CATS (BASEBALL TEAM); BRIDGEPORT BLUEFISH (MINOR LEAGUE TEAM); WATERBURY SPIRIT (BASEBALL TEAM)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MINOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (97%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SPORTS FANS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); CITIES (74%); MOUNTAINS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); GAS STATIONS (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (61%); COUNTIES (50%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



592 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: The View From/New Haven;
25 Years Later, Antiwar Activists Are Still Involved in Cause

BYLINE: By MELINDA TUHUS 

 BODY:
THIS coming weekend marks the 25th anniversary of the end of the war in Vietnam -- the time in 1975 that helicopters lifted off from the roof of the American Embassy in Saigon, ending the United States military presence.
Antiwar advocates in New Haven, who have remained active over the past quarter-century, are planning a commemoration called "The War Then, the War Now: 25 Years After Vietnam, What Did the U.S. Learn?" 
 The event, which consists of speeches and music, will take place Saturday from 2 to 4 p.m. at Center Church on the Green. Another commemoration is planned the following day in New York City at the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue.
Featured speakers in Connecticut will be Ngo Vinh Long and Kathleen Cleaver. Mr. Long, while a Vietnamese student studying in the United States, helped lead opposition to the war. He currently teaches history at the University of Maine.
Al Marder, another organizer of the event, said Mr. Long was invited because "he is profoundly knowledgeable, one of our outstanding scholars in the field of Asian history." Mr. Long had supported the government of North Vietnam and the National Liberation Front, the formal name for the Viet Cong, in the South, which made him controversial among many Vietnamese immigrants to the United States.
Ms. Cleaver, 54, was a leader of the Black Panther Party, which took a strong antiwar position from its early days.
There haven't been any previous commemorations of the antiwar movement like this, Mr. Marder said, and he added that he hoped there wouldn't be any negative response. He said the event would be one of "reconciliation and understanding," especially regarding Vietnam veterans.
"We looked at G.I.'s as victims, not fomenters," he said. A veteran will also be speaking at the event.
Mr. Marder considers the last few months of protests against the World Trade Organization, International Monetary Fund and World Bank, especially the involvement of young people, as "seminal events, bringing students, labor, peace movement people together." He said it made the connection from the antiwar movement to the current upsurge in activism, which was at the heart of why this event had been organized.


 Stephen Kobasa, one of the planning committee members, graduated from Seymour High School in 1965 and saw his first antiwar demonstration that same year in New Haven. "I discovered the world," he said, "and became a conscientious objector." He attended Fairfield University and wrote to his draft board, asking for a meeting to discuss his views. The draft board refused to see him, so he sent back his draft card, which was punishable by up to five years in prison.
"I'm still waiting to hear from them," he said. "The system does not always confront you. Sometimes it treats you with indifference." That taught him an important lesson, he said. "The system can't legitimate your resistance -- you have to do that on your own."
Mr. Kobasa, 52, was involved with the part of the movement known as the Catholic Left and provided support for covert and overt antiwar actions. He attended Yale Divinity School from 1969-72, where he organized support for the Black Panthers. He said he was not nostalgic about that period because he saw a lot of faults within the movement, where sexism, racism and self-righteousness blunted the dreams of freedom and equality. Mr. Kobasa lives in New Haven with his wife and two daughters, and teaches at a Bridgeport Catholic high school. This seemingly average existence has been punctuated by a dozen arrests and short stints in jail.
"I'm still struggling to be a conscientious objector," he said. "It's not a one-time thing. We live in a society that's defined by violence."
Mr. Marder, 78, said the war "radicalized people, mostly young people, who saw our country invade another country with no justification."
As a result, he added, "they are radicalized for life, and no longer accept their government's blandishments unquestioningly."
Virginia Simon, 75, is another New Havener who did not fit the stereotype of the young hippie protester; she said she always resented that cliche. She was a middle-aged mother of four young adults and got drawn into the antiwar movement when she saw how the war affected them.
Ms. Simon headed a group in New Haven called the Peace and Justice Coalition. She went to Washington, D.C., almost every month for meetings or rallies. She worked especially with other women, many from church organizations -- "ladies in our 40's, 50's and 60's," as she put it. "There was this tremendous impetus to try to stop this craziness," she said.
By the time the war ended, an estimated three million Vietnamese, military and civilian, both in the north and south, had been killed, along with 58,000 American military personnel. But there was a big emotional reward, said Ms. Simon of the rallies. "There is so little opportunity to share what you believe and what you feel with a significant number of people," she said.
For the past 25 years Ms. Simon has been an active member of the Greater New Haven Peace Council. She said people had found many ways to stay active. "They may not be doing the same kind of thing, but they are doing something to help their community."
Ms. Cleaver, a Guilford resident, has Vietnam War-era memories that span the globe. In 1970, while the trial of some members of the Black Panther Party was taking place in New Haven, Ms. Cleaver and her husband at the time, Eldridge Cleaver, founded the international section of the party in Algiers in the former headquarters of the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam.
Also that year, an American People's Anti-Imperialist Delegation, co-led by Mr. Cleaver, went to Vietnam. "The party was deeply involved in antiwar activity and in solidarity with the people of Vietnam," Ms. Cleaver said. "You had Martin Luther King Jr. wondering how long he could ask young men to be nonviolent in the face of a country that was so violent," she said, adding that two factors led to an "explosive growth" in the Black Panther Party: one was Dr. King's assassination, and the other was the growing number of returning black Vietnam veterans.
She said it was impossible to put the war behind her, "because it destroyed the social fabric in the African-American community -- especially through the introduction of massive amounts of heroin and other drugs -- and widened the gap between rich and poor."
Ms. Cleaver returned to the United States in 1975, and several years later graduated from Yale College and Yale Law School. She now works at the New York Public Library Center for Scholars and Writers and is writing a book about the revolutionary movement.
"I'm trying to be a chronicler of attempts to bring about change," she said. "I'm older now. I have different responsibilities. But I see the same things now that disturbed me then: racism, exploitation. What really disturbs me is the militarization of the police, which is also a direct result of the war in Vietnam."
With the Gulf War, former President George Bush said that the United States was cured of its so-called Vietnam syndrome, which limited military intervention abroad because of the potential threat of massive resistance at home.
"I think we should never be cured of the Vietnam syndrome," Mr. Kobasa said. "I don't think it's an illness, it's a state of health."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen Kobasa said he is "still struggling to be a conscientious objector."; Virgina Simon, above in a photograph from her photo album, at a protest in New Haven in 1969 or 1970. Ms. Simon, now 75, left, at the head of the table, during a recent gathering of former Vietnam War protesters. Protesters in New Haven, below, from her album. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); VIETNAM (92%); VIET NAM (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (71%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); UNITED STATES (95%); VIETNAM (92%); VIET NAM (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (71%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR VIETNAM WAR (91%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); VETERANS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); HELICOPTERS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); IMMIGRATION (65%); ARMED FORCES (57%); 

PERSON: TUHUS, MELINDA AL MARDER (70%); VINH LONG (70%); STEPHEN KOBASA (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



593 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
You Can Take the Boy Out of Camden . . .

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY; Irvin Molotsky, a Washington correspondent for The New York Times, was a member of the Camden High School class of 1956.

 BODY:
MARTIN SHERMAN, Camden High School class of 1956, left his hometown and went on to become a successful playwright, something that doesn't surprise the former Angela Ciccotelli very much.
While still in his neo-Shakespearean phase (that is, in the fifth grade), young Martin wrote a play, "Homlio and Roulette," casting his friend Angela in the lead female role, not the least because the Ciccotelli backyard in the Parkside neighborhood was larger than most. 
 He remembered her performance. He autographed her copy of the 1956 Camden High School yearbook to "the first little actress since Marilyn Monroe who laughs when she should cry (last scene)."
Mr. Sherman, as so many others did, left Camden at the first opportunity, and when his little star, now Angela Ciccotelli Mulloy, saw him recently it was for the first time in 44 years.
She and five other members of the class of 1956 joined Mr. Sherman for a small reunion, lunch in a theater district restaurant in Manhattan, and opening night for his new play, "Rose," at the Lyceum Theater on Broadway.
It is a one-woman play about a Holocaust survivor, a subject Mr. Sherman has written about before, starring Olympia Dukakis.
"Everyone always says I look like Olympia Dukakis," said Helene Goldman Singer, who postponed a trip to Paris to attend opening night. At the cast party at Sardi's after the performance, Ms. Dukakis agreed that there was a resemblance and gave Ms. Singer permission to sign autographs for overly insistent fans.
Members of the Camden High School class of 1956 do not get to go to many Broadway opening nights or cast parties at Sardi's. The events brought back memories of their childhoods in the once-prospering city that is no longer recognizable to them.
Nancy Lemerman Hermann's parents owned a candy store that was across the street from the Parkside Theater, a movie house that no longer exists. In fact, there are no movie houses at all in Camden now. And the Walt Whitman Hotel, where the class of 1956 held its prom, is gone as well.
RCA Victor, which made most of America's first television sets in Camden, is gone. Campbell's Soup, which fed several generations of children their lunchtime tomato soup, is mostly gone. The New York Shipbuilding Corporation, which built the warships that helped the American victories in the two world wars, is gone.
In 1950, not long before Mr. Sherman's class graduated from high school, Camden's population hit its peak: 124,555. That class of 1956 was in the advance guard of leaving town and Camden's population last year was estimated at 83,546 -- so many of them unemployed, on welfare and addicted that the city seems to totter. Even the mayor is under indictment, the third mayor in 20 years to face criminal charges.
Before things started falling apart, there was a lot going on in Camden.
Dr. Michael Grossman, another former grad, remembers the radio program broadcast each week on WCAM, a station then owned by the city, which had studios on the top floor of the City Hall. The program was produced by the Y.M.C.A., which no longer exists, and was across the street from Camden Catholic High School, which also no longer exists.
While a student at Hatch Junior High School, Mr. Sherman wrote, directed and starred in a 15-minute segment of the program, a sitcom he called "The Adventures of Don and Henry."
Dr. Grossman, a cast member who put aside acting in later life to become an obstetrician-gynecologist (he was, after all, voted most likely to succeed), said, "I don't remember how many programs we did, but I am sure we were great."
The recollections of Mr. Sherman (class actor in 1956) are not quite the same. "We just giggled a lot on the air," he said.
Dr. Grossman made the trip for opening night from Cherry Hill, as did another 1956 graduate, Myrna Caplan Fineman, who teaches emotionally disturbed youth at the Brookfield Academy. Ms. Fineman probably has seen more of Mr. Sherman's plays than any of his longtime friends, including "Bent," his story of gay men killed during the Holocaust, and "When She Danced," the story of Isadora Duncan.
Ms. Hermann (Miss Personality in 1956, Ms. not yet having been invented) came from Scotch Plains, where she markets commercial carpet backings made by the Dow Chemical Company.
Ms. Singer came from Reading, Pa., where she runs a travel agency, and Ms. Mulloy came from Orange, Va., where she and her husband, Richard Brown, run Willow Grove Inn, a 1790's plantation house converted to a bed and breakfast with a restaurant that is among the most outstanding in the stretch from Washington to Charlottesville. One old grad came from Washington.
Mr. Sherman came the farthest, from London, where he now lives and where he has been able to get his plays produced more quickly than New York. He is a gay man and Jewish, and homosexuality and the Holocaust figure in many of his plays.
Ms. Fineman remembered the odd parties that Mr. Sherman organized as a boy. There was one, she recalled, when he served some candy and then announced to his friends that they had just eaten chocolate-covered grasshoppers. That was very funny stuff in the 1950's.
At the reunion lunch, after he got over the mortification of being photographed by his old friends at such a hip theater district restaurant as Joe Allen's, Mr. Sherman remembered his favorite party stunt.
"I told everyone that there was going to be a surprise guest," he said. "Then I left through the back door, ran around to the front and came in, the surprise guest at my own party." Not quite the level of Tom Sawyer watching his own funeral but very funny in Camden.
Dr. Grossman and Mr. Sherman were in the boys' finals of Camden High's annual public speaking contest that year. Dr. Grossman said: "Martin did 'The Treasurer's Report' by Robert Benchley. He was absolutely hilarious. I did 'John Brown's Body' -- very dramatic. Martin should have won, but comedy never wins, so I won."
Dr. Grossman remembered Mr. Sherman's family, his father, Joseph, and his mother, Julia. "Joe Sherman was the first ever public defender in Camden County," he said. "He then returned to practice criminal law. He took clients who could barely afford to pay. He was a legend among local attorneys."
Sad things happened in Camden in those days. "Mother had Huntington's disease," Mr. Sherman said. "She was increasingly bedridden, certainly during the last 15 years of her life. It is a horrible, horrible disease."
Mean things happened. "There was a girl in the class who everyone hated," Mr. Sherman said. "I don't know why. So I befriended her. She wanted to become a jazz singer. I don't think it's a story that ended well."
Tragic things happened. Some thuggish boys beat up on Mr. Sherman, who looked frail as a youth, and there was a disturbed boy named Joseph Ernst. "He would occasionally come in to homeroom and show his collection of pictures of baseball players," Mr. Sherman said, "and the teacher and everyone else ignored him, so I feigned interest in baseball, and he protected me."
Not many years later, Joseph Ernst murdered his girlfriend when she tried to break off their relationship. He was executed in the state prison electric chair in Trenton a few years later.
"Rose" won awards and critics gave it rave reviews in London. Not so in New York.
The critic of The New York Times, Bruce Weber, said that "for all its picaresque detail, her story resonates on the tired frequency of a lecture about the wages of forgetting the past.' The New York Post's critic, Donald Lyons, wrote: "The play, an insufferable lecture, is Martin Sherman's imagining the past, not surprising from one who imagined himself a gay victim of the Nazis in the 1997 film 'Bent.' "
On the other hand, the critic in The Daily News, Fintan O'Toole, felt that "Rose" marked "a real maturing" for Mr. Sherman by adding the element of restraint that had been missing in his earlier work.
There was no restraint among the six longtime friends from the Camden High School class of 1956. "It is blissful to see Martin so successful," Ms. Singer said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martin Sherman, who wrote the Broadway show "Rose," celebrates at a cast party at Sardi's in midtown Manhattan with Helene Goldman Singer, left, who now lives in Reading, Pa., and Olympia Dukakis, the star of the show. Above, Mr. Sherman is surrounded by his classmates from Camden High School's class of 1956. Mr. Sherman, in a yearbook photograph, below, was voted the class actor. (Photographs by Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); READING, PA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FIRST CREDIT UNION (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); READING, PA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. THEATER (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); FILM (89%); MAYORS (83%); WRITERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); CELEBRITIES (75%); RESTAURANTS (67%); MILITARY VESSELS (60%); SHIPBUILDING (60%); NAVAL VESSELS (60%); 

PERSON: OLYMPIA DUKAKIS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



594 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/AT&T Headquarters at 195 Broadway;
A Bellwether Building Where History Was Made

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
WE didn't find anything that was in keeping with its history," said John Heath, a spokesman for AT&T, explaining its decision, which became known last week, not to move its signature Golden Boy statue back to Manhattan.
The possibility of a park had been suggested -- and vigorously endorsed -- by Parks Commissioner Henry J. Stern. Other possibilities were Golden Boy's original location atop the old AT&T Building at 195 Broadway or at the city-owned building at 346 Broadway, the former New York Life Insurance Building. But AT&T decided to leave Golden Boy where he now is, in front of its operational headquarters in Basking Ridge, N.J. 
 Mr. Heath said that AT&T never seriously considered the pyramid on which the sculpture originally stood at 195 Broadway. For Peter S. Kalikow, the developer who bought building from AT&T in 1983, it will always be the missing element in a $3 million restoration. "I still want to put Golden Boy back," he said.
 The statue was created under the aegis of Theodore N. Vail, AT&T's president who was something of a golden boy himself. He learned telegraphy is his early 20's, first at Western Union and then at the Union Pacific Railroad, where he rose quickly by making striking improvements in fast mail service. When Vail became the general manager of the nascent Bell Telephone Company, he moved it to New York and extended its reach into long distance and telephone manufacturing, organizing the American Telephone and Telegraph Company to oversee its growing empire.
 Vail became the president of AT&T in 1907 and of Western Union in 1909, when AT&T acquired it, promising important economies of scale. To house this new enterprise, Vail planned a new 29-story headquarters at 195 Broadway in 1912, to be built in two parts along the full blockfront from Dey to Fulton Streets.
 The first part, at the Dey Street corner with an L-shaped wing connecting to Fulton Street, was not completed until 1916. So in 1915, when Alexander Graham Bell completed the first cross-country telephone call, he had to do it from another telephone company building on the south side of Dey Street. In that call, Bell repeated his famous words of 1876 -- "Mr. Watson, come here, I want you" -- to Thomas A. Watson in San Francisco.
 WHILE the building was going up, AT&T spun off Western Union in 1913, amid antitrust allegations. About this time, AT&T had commissioned Evelyn Beatrice Longman, a sculptor, to design an appropriate statue for its new building. The statue was a 24-foot winged male figure in gilded bronze, standing atop a globe, encircled by cables and holding electric bolts in one hand. She called the finished work "Genius of Telegraphy."
By the time it was installed on the stepped pyramidal top of the Fulton Street wing of the AT&T Building in 1916, however, Western Union was gone, and the statue was renamed "Genius of Electricity." The official name was changed once more, in the 1930's, to "Spirit of Communication," reflecting the company's evolution. But it was the Golden Boy nickname that stuck.
 World War I delayed the Fulton Street half of the AT&T Building, which was finally completed in 1922. It presented a massive neo-Classical rebuke to the Beaux-Arts froufrou of earlier downtown skyscrapers. Layer upon layer of Doric and Ionic columns in cool gray granite rose up like an ancient monument. Welles Bosworth, its architect, designed the lobby as a forest of 43 giant marble columns, notable in their Doric simplicity, one of the great commercial interiors of the city.
 American Architect magazine noted that this emphasis on simplicity extended to the smallest details: "There are no manufacturers' names to be seen anywhere in the building, not even in the elevators. It is a relief to the tired brain, not to be forced to read lettering on all the fixtures, as has been so universally customary in this country. One sees no name placarded on the exterior of this building. It needs none."
 Mr. Bosworth worked extensively for the Rockefeller family -- he designed Kykuit, their Westchester estate -- and in 1924 moved to France to supervise the Rockefeller-financed restoration of Versailles.
Although the first cross-country call was placed from another building, the first trans-Atlantic call, to London in 1927, was made from 195 Broadway, said Dr. Sheldon Hochheiser, AT&T's corporate historian.
In 1980, the Landmarks Preservation Commission proposed the lobby of 195 Broadway for landmark designation, although it never acted. In 1983, AT&T moved to new headquarters at Madison Avenue and 55th Street and installed Golden Boy at the entrance. In 1992, when AT&T leased the building to Sony, Golden Boy was moved to Basking Ridge.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The first half of the AT&T Building was completed in 1916. The L-shaped building, at left in 1920, began at Broadway and Dey Street and wrapped around to Fulton Street. Golden Boy atop his globe in 1920, above. The building, finished in 1922, as it looks today, right. All that remains of the original statue, formally the "Spirit of Communication," is the pyramid on which it once stood. (Office for Metropolitan History; Avery Library; Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (96%); WU (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP AT&T INC (96%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (57%); WESTERN UNION CO (55%); UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (70%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (63%); LIFE INSURANCE (55%); 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER; KALIKOW, PETER S

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



595 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
All Eyes Are on Fort Lee

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: FORT LEE

 BODY:
Ralph Larsen could have been almost anywhere on Tuesday morning.
Cloud Nine would have been one good place. Or maybe teeing off at Baltusrol Golf Club in Springfield, where he is a member. 
 Mr. Larsen is the chief executive of Johnson & Johnson in New Brunswick, and his company, the subject of a glowing cover story in the latest issue of Barron's, reported outstanding quarterly earnings that morning. Its stock was headed up four points in the first hour of trading.
But where Mr. Larsen chose to be was in a rather undistinguished office building on Fletcher Avenue here, since that is where what happens in business is really happening these days. On the sixth floor -- just north of the KFC and across the street from the Red Oak Diner -- is CNBC, the most popular financial news network in the world.
After getting made up, Mr. Larsen would have a few minutes on the air with Ted David, the CNBC anchor of "Market Watch," telling his compadres and competitors alike how wonderful things are at Johnson & Johnson.
"I'm getting more comfortable at this," Mr. Larsen said about his time on CNBC. "You have to. This is important for us."
More and more, New Jersey-based CNBC is becoming the epicenter of the world of financial news. On Friday, April 14, when the Dow Jones industrial average nosedived 618 points, the Nielsen company counted more than a million viewers tuned to the network from 4:15 to 4:30 p.m., just after trading closed on the stock market.
"Nielsen doesn't count bars and trading floors and offices, so you've got to figure that could be up by a factor of three," said Joe Kernen, a CNBC stock market reporter, known for his "Winners and Losers" segments. "We are essential news for anyone who wants to know what happens on Wall Street."
And CNBC is not NBC's only hand in New Jersey. Its sister cable news network, MSNBC, is situated farther south, in Secaucus. The network's presence, if only out of convenience, opens for the nation a window on New Jersey.
On Tuesday, for example, Ben & Jerry's was celebrating its anniversary by giving out ice cream cones. The company was also announcing its quarterly earnings -- not as robust as expected -- so CNBC's afternoon producer, Andy Hoffman, sent a crew to Ben & Jerry's on Palisades Avenue in downtown Englewood to illustrate the story.
"We could have done it anywhere, but why not here in New Jersey," said Mr. Hoffman. "When Kohl's was expanding, we went to a Kohl's on Route 4. It was a legitimate business story, and we could illustrate it close by. And we're always mentioning Fort Lee on the network."
Since merging with the Financial News Network in 1991, CNBC -- a sister cable network of NBC, which is owned by General Electric -- its viewership has increased tenfold -- to an average 323,000 households ecah business day, in some measure due to Wall Street's continuing bull market.
"The long good times for stocks means more people own them, which means more people care about watching us," said Mr. Kernen. "I've been on the tarmac at the airport and some baggage guys said, 'Hey, say something good about Continental so the stock goes up.' "
Little wonder that some of those formerly faceless financial reporters who regularly roam the highways and mini-malls of North Jersey have had cases of mini-stardom. Take Mr. Kernen, who has been profiled by several national magazines. And Ron Insana, the anchor on the program "Street Signs," appears regularly on many NBC news programs as well as the nationally syndicated "Imus in the Morning" radio show -- which is also broadcast on MSNBC.
Another of CNBC's market reporters, Maria Bartiromo, has even been Regis Philbin's guest co-host on ABC's "Live with Regis and Kathie Lee."
But the soul of CBNC may be the three wise guys who appear on "Squawk Box" from 7 to 10 a.m. -- which Mr. Kernen affectionately calls "our pre-game show." Mr. Kernen and his stock-reporting sidekick, David Faber, banter while reporting the mornings business news with the program's anchor, Mark Haines.
"I couldn't be here and be boring about business news," said Mr. Haines, who was a local news anchor in New York and Philadelphia before attending law school at the University of Pennsylvania and then coming to CNBC. "We have to inject a little fun into it. About five years ago, things weren't going all that well in the morning, so management said, 'O.K., try it your way.' It gives us a healthy perspective."
The group has popularized the Alan Greenspan Briefcase Index, which has been uncanny in predicting the moves by the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee to raise and lower interest rates. Alerted by a viewer, Mr. Haines -- a Plainfield native who now lives in Monmouth County -- researched tapes and noted that when Mr. Greenspan, the head of the Federal Reserve, carried a fat briefcase to the meetings, interest rates rose; a thin briefcase indicated lower rates.
For a time, when Mr. Faber, called "The Brain" by his co-anchors, reported on Priceline.com, the hotel and airline Internet company whose advertisements feature William Shatner, the "Star Trek" theme would play.
More often than not, however, Mr. Kernen and the rest are deadly serious about getting their information right.
And "Squawk Box" viewers, particularly day traders, can hang on Mr. Kernen's every word.
"I may do a tease going into a commercial like, say, 'There's a biotech stock with some interesting results,' " he said. 'By the time we come back, they've figured out what I was previewing and the stock could be up or down three points. It's daunting."
Mr. Kernen, an eight-handicap golfer at Baltusrol and a former stockbroker,said: "I'm an unabashed capitalist. I like bull markets and I'm not fond of bear markets. A strong economy is good for everyone. A day like last Friday, well, I don't like those days, but I guess they keep people watching.'
A resident of Englewood, Mr. Kernen added, "One day we may even be able to get Faber over here from that Sodom, New York."
And like a real Jersey guy, he then drove across Fletcher Avenue for lunch at the Linwood Plaza strip mall.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wall Street's dive and rebound are making Mark Haines, an anchor of "Squawk Box," left, and Joe Kernen, a CNBC markets reporter, household names. (John W. Wheeler for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (91%); BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); GOLF (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ICE CREAM (74%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (69%); EXECUTIVES (57%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); 

PERSON: RALPH S LARSEN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



596 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM;
Putting Technology Jobs On Women's Career Radar

BYLINE: By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
MY wife, Christine Negroni, has just published a book. After she's done with the signings and interviews, she moves to the mundane world of the once-published. What, she has to decide, will she do next?
Writing another book would be satisfying, but not necessarily profitable. Broadcast journalism, her previous career, is profitable, but not necessarily satisfying. She is looking for a challenge. She wants to do good. And she wouldn't mind making some money. 
 If this were a different economy, I'd just laugh. Instead, I said, "Try the Internet."
"You're kidding," she replied. After all, she has little interest in computers.
Many information technology companies are scrambling to fill all the jobs they have created, and even with stock market uncertainty some have tapped a ready supply of workers -- women who have been out of the work force. Women Work, an organization based in Washington, says there are 35 million stay-at-home moms in the United States, many of them eager to have jobs. And companies are eager to train them, computer skills or no.
Jill Miller, director of Women Work, said it has set up programs with companies like Intel and Time Warner to ease women into high-technology jobs. "Stay-at-home moms represent the largest pool of nontraditional candidates," Ms. Miller said. "The problem is trying to convince women to consider I.T. jobs."
Mills College in Oakland, Calif., has programs to train second-career professionals in computer science. Ellen Spertus, an assistant professor, said graduates have landed at start-ups and big companies like Apple Computer, Hewlett-Packard and Sun Microsystems.
Previously, the Internet was not on the career radar of women like Bernadette Crawford, 51; Margot Hand, 49; Jennifer Knebel, 40; and Holly Hough, 42. But after working earlier in their careers in jobs as diverse as child care, marketing, finance and advertising, they all ended up at Aabalone Red, a Web site developer in Darien, Conn. Ms. Crawford had been nanny for the children of Aabalone's owners; after the children were older, she was offered a job at the company.
Their jobs range from research to keeping books and working with clients. They all had to become intimate with computers and the Internet. Ms. Knebel, who had worked at Bank of America and Prudential and has a master's degree from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, was more than willing to learn. "When I stopped working in '93, we were working on I.B.M. 386's," she said. "When Aabalone hired me, they handed me a Mac. I knew I could figure out the Internet. I like challenges."
Alec Wiggin, who runs Aabalone with his wife, Gail, says that these women may lack computer skills initially but that they bring valuable work experience to their jobs.
"They know what it means to act professionally, to meet deadlines and be part of a team," Mr. Wiggin said. "All those things, when you are working with younger people, can take time to learn. I like the professional maturity of this pool of people. They come with a set of skills that are harder to teach."
Gail Wiggin says that if women are eager to learn, the company is willing to train them. "There are all these intelligent women not working," she said. "We take these women, bring them in and say, 'Look, do you want to learn about this industry?' "
Anita Borg, president of the Institute for Women and Technology in Palo Alto, Calif., said women should want to expand their skills. "Women need to know that they have to go for jobs that they don't have all the skills for," she said. "They have to know that there is great demand in this particular labor market. And saying 'I'm smart, I can do this, train me' is a great strategy. It takes some moxie."
After Simona Carini, 37, of Orinda, Calif., receives a master's degree in computer science at Mills, she plans to find just the right job.
"I don't want to work for a company whose only aim is to make money," she said. "I've done that, and I don't want to do it again. Women have different priorities."
Which gets us back to my wife. Her quest took her to Manhattan for an interview at a dot-com. She came back impressed, saying she was now convinced that such companies would define the future. Whether she joins this company or another, I don't think she's going to be home much longer.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); BAC (NYSE) (51%); BAC (LSE) (51%); 8648 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WOMEN; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT WOMEN WORKERS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CHILDREN (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); CHILD CARE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); JOURNALISM (57%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: SCHEMBARI, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



597 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 9; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES;
Soccer Neighborhood, Empty Net

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
Day or night, go to any bar in the Ironbound with a satellite dish when professional soccer is being played and chances are there will be a crowd tossing back a few and watching the game.
"They go crazy," said Nanda Cerquira, owner of Tio Pepe, where patrons were leaping from their seats, pumping their fists in the air and shouting last Wednesday afternoon as Real Madrid and Manchester United battled in European Cup competition on the bar's motion-picture-sized screen. 
 At Pegasus Sporting Goods on Ferry Street, which stocks 20 models of outdoor soccer shoes and another 20 for indoor play, a sales clerk, Anna Santos, said gravely: "It's not like, 'My favorite sport.' It's something much more than this."
So it is a disappointment to residents of the Ironbound -- the city's most economically vibrant and socially stable neighborhood -- that even after construction of major amenities like the New Jersey Performing Arts Center and a minor-league baseball team, a soccer stadium has eluded city officials, community activists and the owners of the Major League Soccer's MetroStars.
Hopes for a stadium here rose again recently, when YankeeNets, the organization that owns the New Jersey Nets basketball team and has agreed to buy the Devils hockey team, began negotiating to buy half of the MetroStars.
YankeeNets intends to build a $295 million arena near the Pennsylvania Station under a redevelopment plan that the city is in the process of adopting. Had the organization become an owner of the MetroStars, it would have probably sought to build a soccer stadium too. But last month, negotiations between YankeeNets and MetroMedia, which owns the MetroStars, collapsed.
Afterward, Mayor Sharpe James pledged his continued support for a soccer stadium, although he did not provide any details. At the same time, the president of the East Side Community Center, Jack DaSilva, a local banker and realtor, announced that his group had gathered nearly 3,000 signatures on a petition in support of a soccer stadium.
"I am very confident that, if the MetroStars had a stadium in Newark, they would be sold out for every game they play," Mr. DaSilva said.
Jose Fernandes, owner of the Play Ball Restaurant on Ferry Street, said: "Most of the businesses here are Portuguese, and we pay taxes. The people in this area, they don't know anything about baseball or American football or those kinds of sports."
Three years ago, Mayor James a Democrat, and County Executive James W. Treffinger, a Republican, reached across party lines to shake hands on a deal that would have developed a sports complex in an Ironbound park with stadiums for minor league baseball and soccer.
But the plan was killed by a combination of factors, including opposition led by a group known as the Ironbound Community Corporation, which feared the loss of recreational space, including a soccer field. Basically, the group preferred playing to watching.
The baseball stadium, which is known as Riverfront Park and is home to the Newark Bears, was eventually built on a different site, just off McCarter Highway outside the Ironbound section.
"It's a complex issue," said Joe Della Fave, the group's president. "There are overcrowded schools and not enough places to play, and that's got to be a priority."
Councilman Augusto Amador, who represents the Ironbound section as part of the East Ward -- where the baseball stadium and the performing arts center are situated -- said he fully supported a stadium.
Last Tuesday, Mr. Amador met with the general manager of the MetroStars, Nick Sakiewicz, to discuss the city's old Ironbound Stadium site, a deteriorating piece of city-owned property where a hulking concrete grandstand and an overgrown oval track linger as reminders of when the stadium was host to local matches and exhibitions featuring foreign professional teams. It is sandwiched between a hockey arena where indoor soccer is also played, and a large open space that is now being cleaned up and leveled for use as a multipurpose athletic field.
Even so, Mr. Amador said, the Ironbound has higher priorities, including construction of a replacement for the aging and overcrowded East Side High School, a project that does not necessarily conflict with a soccer stadium, but must come first.
In addition, the Ironbound is becoming increasingly congested, a condition that stadium plans would have to be careful not to aggravate.
"Soccer is synonymous with the Ironbound," Mr. Amador said. But, he added, "We have to minimize the negative impact that a stadium might have."
Rick Cerone, the Bears' owner, said a soccer stadium could only help his team by boosting Newark's profile as a sports venue. "The more the merrier," he said.
What is contemplated, Mr. Amador and Mr. Sakiewicz said, is a 25,000-seat stadium that could cost from $40 million to $60 million. Most of the project would be financed privately, although the city would be asked to pay for road and other infrastructure improvements, Mr. Sakiewicz said.
For now, the MetroStars play at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, which is difficult to reach by public transportation, and where the team's lease is up after the 2001 season. Exactly one stadium has been built specifically for a Major League Soccer team since the league debuted in 1996, a $28.5 million project finance privately in Columbus, Ohio, said Dan Courtemanche, a league spokesman.
Mr. Courtemanche said the stadium had solidified the Columbus Crew's identity among its fans, and helped the team lead the league in average attendance last year, at 17,406 a game. In contrast, the MetroStars, which have struggled as a franchise, averaged just over 14,000 last year.
To be sure, not everyone in the Ironbound is passionate about soccer.
Manuel Ferreira, 13, was among several young hockey players working out at the rink on inline skates last week. Why does he prefer hockey?
"More speed," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Tio Pepe restaurant, passionate fans get their soccer on satellite television. Local residents say they would flock to a stadium for live games. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (57%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (57%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (54%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (54%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SOCCER (94%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); SPORTS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); BASKETBALL (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); CITIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); COUNTIES (68%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (61%); PETITIONS (61%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (58%); 

PERSON: AUGUSTO AMADOR (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



598 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
Self-Service Gas Stations, Meet Self-Serving Politicians

BYLINE: By David Kocieniewski; David Kocieniewski reports from Trenton for The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
After all the snarling and braying about the recent surge in oil prices, isn't it about time that someone offered the moguls at OPEC at least a little thanks?
True, the cartel may have gouged Americans out of billions of dollars by cutting production and artificially driving up prices. The spike in oil prices may have stoked fears of inflation and further destabilized an already skittish market. But the oil barons' bare-knuckled capitalism brought at least one positive side effect to New Jersey: it compelled state officials to re-examine their nonsensical ban on self-service gas stations. 
 To lifelong New Jersey residents it may come as a surprise to learn that there are 48 other states out there that allow drivers to attempt the death-defying task of placing a nozzle into their cars' gas tank and squeezing a handle. (The only other holdout is Oregon, a place so contrary that it legalized assisted suicide and medical marijuana.)
Self-service proponents say the practice has become widespread because it offers drivers a choice, either pay a little more for full service or do it themselves and save money. A recent study by a professor at the University of Montana and a Justice Department analyst concluded that gas prices for New Jersey self-service customers would drop three to five cents if the state lifts the ban.
In a state where more than 4.6 billion gallons are sold each year, the annual savings could total hundreds of millions of dollars.
To the Flat-Earth full-service-crowd however, such talk is a recipe for social upheaval and financial ruin. Spouting conspiracy theories worthy of an "X-Files" episode, they warn that oil companies would somehow use the self-service islands to raise prices for all drivers. They point to New Jersey's gas prices, already the lowest in the region, and say there's no reason to lift a ban that has been in effect since 1949. But the biggest reason for the state's cheap gas is the fact that New Jersey levies one of the lowest gas taxes in the country. Allowing self-service would give customers the chance to pay even lower prices.
Some of the more hysterical full-service types even warn that smokers who gas up their own cars might accidentally self-immolate.
(Question for Oregon law professors: Would it be legal for Dr. Jack Kevorkian to fill up his own car if he contracted glaucoma and held a lit joint at the pump?)
The most compelling argument against self-service comes from those who say it would be unfair to the disabled, infirm or elderly. But Stephen G. Carrellas, coordinator of National Motorists Association's New Jersey chapter, said that New Jersey could require self-service stations to have one attendant working at all times to assist those motorists unable to pump gas themselves -- at no extra charge.
"No one is being a forced into a straitjacket," said State Senator Gerald Cardinale, a Republican from Demarest, who is drafting a bill to lift the ban. "It's like, should you go to a vegetable stand or to a supermarket?"
If arguments like these sound logical, that's just the problem. When it comes to the tangled, irrational relationship between New Jerseyans and their cars, there's no place for logic.
Prof. Michael Aaron Rockland, chairman of the American Studies Department at Rutgers, said that the state was so suburbanized that New Jerseyans depended on autos to conduct the most basic daily functions.
"You ask someone in New Jersey where they're from and they don't name a town, they name an area," Mr. Rockland said. "The implication is that you need a car to do anything. People in New Jersey are passionate about cars, obsessed with cars."
That obsession helped induce State Senator Garry J. Furnari to become a leading defender of the ban. Mr. Furnari, a member of the Commerce Committee, was holding a hearing on home heating oil prices late last winter and within minutes, he said, it "morphed into a shouting match" about the impending plague of self-service.
His office was soon besieged by phone calls, letters and e-mails from senior citizens, advocates for the disabled and traditionalists who just didn't want to pump their own. Mr. Furnari, who knows a winning political issue when he sees one, still isn't sure why people feel so inflamed by the issue. But he feels their pain.
"These people see it as yet another attempt to take something away from them," he said.
Given the intensity of that reaction, Mr. Cardinale's bill faces an uphill battle. The last attempt to repeal the ban, in 1988, won the votes of 4 of the state's 40 senators. Governor Whitman, already mired in auto-related problems surrounding the state's troubled E-ZPass system and auto emissions testing program, said she wasn't convinced the savings warrant the risk of losing 20,000 gas attendants' jobs.
But no one would suggest that every auto be fitted with horseshoes just to keep blacksmiths employed. And James E. Benton, executive director of the New Jersey Petroleum Council, said there were as many jobs available in a self-service station as a full-service station.
"If you get rid of the ban, you can dedicate a person to be a mechanic and to a convenience store," he said. "Those things might ultimately be more profitable and lead to more productive, better-paying jobs."
Better yet, maybe the state's displaced gas attendants can be trained in psychology and specialize in treating New Jersey's auto-centric absurdities.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Kocieniewski

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: SELF-SERVICE FURNITURE INC (91%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CARTELS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); DEATH & DYING (74%); FUEL TAX (73%); CANNABIS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); SMOKING (70%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (69%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (67%); GLAUCOMA (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); SUICIDE (53%); 

PERSON: GARRY J FURNARI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



599 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business;
WhatSeminar, Dad? It's Play Time.

BYLINE: By JANE WOLFE 

 BODY:
MARKETERS at the Four Seasons resort on Maui, looking for the newest way to attract business meetings, think small: hula lessons, volcano visits and lei-making, all for children ages 5 to 12.
At the Ritz-Carlton in Boston, conference planners boast about their most popular suite -- the $725-a-night junior presidential, designed for guests 2 to 4 feet tall -- with an adjoining room for parents or a nanny. Like other hotels in the chain, it has a program called "Ritz Kids." 
 And at the Loews Coronado Bay Resort in San Diego, where 70 percent of the guests are business travelers, the hotel is constantly expanding its list of baby sitters, pediatricians and activities -- like classes on explorers, pirates and nautical rope-tying -- for its youngest clientele.
Hotels, especially resorts with plenty of meeting space, are adding all manner of attractions to compete for a growing number of business travelers who do not want to leave home without their children. "When meeting planners call us, they mention right off that they want to have something fun for the kids to do," said Sara Harper, public relations director at the Loews Coronado. "If we didn't have well-conceived programs for kids, we'd lose business."
In a booming economy, many overworked parents have been struggling to find more time for their children -- so they are taking them along on business trips. The number of youngsters on such trips more than tripled over the 10 years through 1998, according to the Travel Industry Association of America.
Hotels that hardly tolerated children in the past are finding more ways to delight this newest group of discriminating travelers while their parents attend meetings. From $40 to $75 a day, most of the best hotels offer day camps with carefully planned activities that are educational as well as fun. For an additional $30 to $40, parents can see that their children are kept busy at night, whether at beach parties or at elaborate buffet tables designed to accommodate short arms and legs. Even at city hotels, where most activities are indoors, children keep busy with arts and crafts, cooking classes and even staff-sanctioned, late-night raids on the hotel refrigerator.
At the Ritz-Carlton in Boston, parents can spend $240 to enroll children in an all-day etiquette program that teaches table-setting and manners, food preparation and presentation, thank-you-note writing and ballroom dancing. The program has been so successful that it was expanded in January to include "executive etiquette," for adults.
Hotels are piling on so many enticing programs for children that parents, hearing of them, often demand to be treated as well.
The Loews Coronado had only children in mind when it started offering its "dive-in movies" on Friday nights. The plan was for children to float in inner tubes in the swimming pool while watching a movie on a giant poolside screen. But the program turned into a family activity when parents, after a long week of business meetings at the hotel, began joining their children in the pool.
"We're seeing evidence of just how time-deprived parents are, and just how important it is for them to incorporate business and pleasure," Ms. Harper said.
AT the Ritz-Carlton in Naples, Fla., parents are often seen sneaking out of their meetings to jealously observe the children's program in action. Last August, the Risk Insurance Management Society arranged its conference events to coincide with the children's activities schedule -- thus giving families more time together. The group went to this effort even though there were only 40 children with the 500 adults.
"It's not enough just to drop your child off with a baby sitter at the beach," said Ann Hughes, the public relations director at the hotel. "Our goal is to have the kids go home with an experience that they can talk to Mommy and Daddy about."
Now hotels are working on the details, like the huge, colorful bath sponges shaped in the letters of the child's name in their rooms at the Four Seasons on Maui, or the milk and cookies and toddler-size terry-cloth robes in that suite at the Ritz in Boston.
Hotels are also treating special requests from children -- their favorite videos, say -- as seriously as those from their parents. And the children are grateful for the new respect.
Eight-year-old Shelby Rachleff of Portola Valley, Calif., is not a big tipper, but she notices that employees of the Four Seasons on Maui call her by name and remember such personal preferences as how she likes her hamburgers. "They treat the kids really equal to the parents," she said.
In a less bullish economy, parents might think twice about the expense of taking a child to the Maui resort, where the most popular two-bedroom suites cost $1,495 a night. But for now, many parents are willing to pay a price for convenience. "We offer complimentary cribs, high chairs and baby carriages, and we baby-proof the room before they even check in," said Yvonne Biegel, the hotel's public relations director, "so our guests can get on a plane and come here without having to haul all that stuff."
Even at the hotels, however, there are choices to be made between work and family.
"You'll see some parents hanging out with their kids at night, instead of networking with other business people," said Cathy Keefe, spokeswoman for the Travel Industry Association. "You don't want to ignore the kids, but you also don't want to ignore the business. It is possible to reach a balance, as is proven by the sheer number of people who are doing it."
Not everyone, however, is in favor of taking children on business trips to fancy resorts. Letitia Baldrige, who has written many a book on manners, warns that children might become hopelessly spoiled. "Children who are traveling in such style, staying in a suite that costs $725 a night, begin to think that it's natural to live that way," she said. "When the economy takes a downturn, and they have to stay home, then how will the children feel, and, for that matter, how will the parents feel?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Luxury hotels are adding amenities and activities for children. Yadiro Franco, above left, supervised a play session at the Ritz-Carlton in Naples, Fla.. Two young guests, right, made key chains for their parents in an arts-and-crafts class. (Photographs by David S. Carson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (85%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NAPLES, FL, USA (85%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RITZ-CARLTON HOTEL CO SEASONS RESORT (73%); LOEWS CORONADO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RITZ-CARLTON HOTEL CO LOEWS CORONADO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON (MASS); NAPLES (FLA); UNITED STATES (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (85%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NAPLES, FL, USA (85%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS CHILDREN (91%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); DANCE (78%); RESORTS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: WOLFE, JANE SARA HARPER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000



600 of 789 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 25 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFING: ECONOMY AND TAXES;
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE

BYLINE: By WENDY GINSBERG

 BODY:
The state's unemployment rate fell last month to 3.7 percent, its lowest level in 11 years. February's rate was 4.1 percent.
 WENDY GINSBERG
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); 

PERSON: WENDY GINSBERG (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2000

 
