

601 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: The Sticker-Shock Congress 

 BODY:
Congress nearly always engages in pork-barrel spending as it leaves town for the holidays, usually to feather the nests of special interest groups responsible for the perpetuation of careers on Capitol Hill. But this year's end-of-session binge has gone way beyond pork, saddling the country with long-term obligations of mammoth proportions and inviting censure not only from the usual good-government types but also from economists who genuinely fear for the future of the economy. The Wall Street investment bank Goldman Sachs, not given to hyperbole, warned in its most recent newsletter that the "U.S. budget is out of control." This sentiment was echoed by the bipartisan Concord Coalition, which monitors federal spending, and which called 2003 "the most irresponsible year ever" in terms of fiscal discipline. 
 This spending comes courtesy of a Republican Congress and White House. Though the Republicans are historically the party of budget restraint and smaller government, these Republicans have presided over an orgy of tax cuts and benefit increases that, according to the Concord group, will not only boost this year's projected deficit but also add as much as $800 billion to the national debt over the next 10 years. The damage will be even greater in the following decade. Among the more prominent items are $400 billion for Medicare (this page supported the new prescription drug benefit), $300 billion in tax cuts and $22 billion in new veterans' benefits. If the energy bill had passed, which fortunately did not happen, that would have added another $23 billion to $30 billion in tax cuts, plus perhaps twice that much in newly authorized programs. And all of this comes on top of three consecutive tax cuts totaling more than $1.7 trillion over the next decade. 
 President Bush must share responsibility. He speaks of fiscal restraint when he is on the road, but back home in Washington he seems content to let Congress do its thing. So far he has not threatened to veto a single bill because of its cost. Warren Rudman, a former senator and moderate Republican who helped found the Concord group, noted that the word "tomorrow" -- as in "there is no tomorrow" -- no longer exists in the Congressional vocabulary. That goes for the White House as well. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VETO (89%); TAX LAW (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MEDICARE (76%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (65%); VETERANS (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; VETOES (US); LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



602 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1808 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: NUCLEAR WEAPONS; 
THEFT OF COBALT IN IRAQ PROMPTS SECURITY INQUIRY

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS; Judith Miller contributed reporting for this article from New York. 

DATELINE: AMIRIYA, Iraq 

 BODY:
A seeming lapse in surveillance by American forces has led to the looting of dangerously radioactive capsules from Saddam Hussein's main battlefield testing site in the desert outside Baghdad and the identification of at least one 30-year-old Iraqi villager, and possibly a village boy, as suffering from radiation sickness.
 The two capsules, taken from a site once used by Mr. Hussein's government to test the effects of radiation on animals and perhaps humans, have since been recovered after an American sweep through the area. 
 But American officers fear that more cases of the sickness may follow, and that they will be powerless to help unless people in the villages of Amiriya and Shamiya break their silence and identify men who looted the desert site in early September.
Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez, the American commander in Iraq, has ordered an investigation to discover why an arc of eight 75-foot radioactive testing poles at the site was not more closely guarded after American nuclear experts filed a report to the Pentagon identifying them as dangerous after a visit to the site on May 9, American officers said. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld has also taken a personal interest in the case. 
Under investigation is how American surveillance of the area, now under the control of the 82nd Airborne Division, failed to spot villagers entering the testing site with heavy vehicles to dismantle three of the poles, or towers, for scrap, leaving heavy tire tracks in the desert.
One of the cobalt capsules was found by American troops on Oct. 6 lying in the yard of a villager's house in Amiriya, less than 15 feet from the outdoor clay oven the family used to bake bread.
The second capsule was found partly buried about 75 feet from a house in Shamiya, just east of Amiriya and about 10 miles north of the nuclear testing site, in a position where it, too, would have been approached by family members and neighbors. Along with the capsules, parts of the giant testing poles were found, dismantled for scrap metal.
"We've made every effort to unscramble this thing," said Lt. Col. George Krivo, a spokesman for the American command in Baghdad.
Looting of military depots has been a persistent problem since the fall of Mr. Hussein, prompting suggestions that the 130,000 American troops in Iraq may be too stretched.
The radioactive capsules, less than five inches high and shaped like stainless steel miniatures of the Apollo spacecraft's command module, contained thumbnail amounts of cobalt-60, a radiation source commonly used in X-ray machines and in other medical and industrial applications. The capsules were situated in concrete crypts at the base of the towers, and raised on cables into the towers to create an irradiated environment on the simulated battlefield.
American experts say they have not been able to verify whether the radioactive poles were used under Mr. Hussein for live tests on humans and animals that simulated battlefield conditions under nuclear attack, as reports from Iraqi exiles in the years before the American occupation suggested.
But documents recording tests on humans, including dust-covered strips of film showing the naked upper bodies and heads of men who appeared to have been alive when the films were made, were found by The New York Times at the site during two visits there in mid-November.
American officers who oversaw the complex operation to recover the two unshielded capsules of cobalt-60 have hinted that the failure to identify the looting in September until two weeks later may have resulted from a work overload among experts who gather data from spy satellites.
In a somber reflection of the hostility toward Americans in this area at the southern end of the so-called Sunni triangle, Colonel Krivo said, "If for any reason there are people in those villages who cannot or will not come forward to be tested, that would be very much to their detriment." He added, "The attitude out there is 'Why should we trust the Americans?' "
The two houses where the cobalt-60 capsules were found were identified after United States Army Black Hawk helicopters fitted with powerful radiation detectors flew wide patterns across the desert near the testing site, the officers said.
American experts say cobalt could be used in the making of "dirty bombs" -- cheap, improvised nuclear devices. But American commanders here are convinced that the looters wanted the metal only for scrap.
American experts, and others from the Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency, which had the towers under surveillance for much of the 1990's and just before the American invasion of Iraq, say the cobalt capsules were strong enough when Mr. Hussein's scientists first used them in the early 1980's to emit potentially lethal gamma rays. Recent American tests have shown that the radioactivity of the capsules has decayed to about 10 percent of its original potency. But the fact that the capsules were unshielded, American experts say, still posed a danger to anyone exposed to them for a protracted period.
At both villages, local people have steadfastly refused to identify the men who dismantled the towers and moved them to the villages, along with the two capsules, or to tell American and Iraqi investigators where the men are now. 
The officers said they believed that after the lapses in spotting the looting, the American command -- particularly a Pentagon unit called the Defense Threat Reduction Agency, working in Iraq to dispose of materials found at former chemical, biological and nuclear weapons sites -- deserved credit for moving quickly into the villages and taking the capsules back to the testing site.
The testing site was then made safe by moving the capsules from all eight towers to an undisclosed but "safe" place.
In a measure of how concerned the Americans were when they reached the two villages to recover the capsules, the officers described how an American soldier in Amiriya wearing no protective equipment had approached the capsule, mounted atop a 60-pound steel counterweight, had run with it, and had "heaved it over the fence, 100 feet from the house."
So far, about 70 villagers have been tested by teams from the Iraqi Ministry of Health and assisted by Americans, who took blood samples and conducted other tests.
Of those villagers, American officers say, four showed "abnormal results," and two, the 30-year-old man and the 4-year-old boy, were found to have symptoms consistent with radiation sickness. The man, who has the more serious of the two cases, had muscle pains, fatigue and multiple ulcerations in his mouth, the officers say, all classic symptoms of radiation sickness.
The officers did not identify the two victims or give their current state of health, but said they remained under observation.
In the case of the house in Amiriya, only women and children remain there, a situation almost unknown in the male-dominated life of Iraqi villages. American officers did not say in which village the two suspected radiation victims lived, or whether they believed that the 30-year-old man was among the looters.
The officers quoted the Iraqis living at the Amiriya house as saying that all the men in the family had been killed in the American invasion of Iraq, and that they knew nothing about how the radioactive capsule and the two 38-foot lengths of heavy steel lying just beyond a fence marking their yard had gotten there.
In Shamiya, the officers said, the family offered an even less credible explanation, given that American experts inspected all eight towers in May and found the capsules intact.
"They said, 'An Iraqi soldier came to the house in April and told us to bury the object here, and to stay away from it,' " the officers said.
The American investigation set in motion by General Sanchez appears to be a rigorous one. "He's investigating this in great detail, and he's personally engaged," Colonel Krivo said of the general. "We will get to the bottom of this."
For years, Western human rights groups reported claims by Iraqi defectors that prisoners were being taken from Mr. Hussein's overcrowded prisons, including his main fortress at Abu Ghraib, about 30 miles north of the testing site, to be used as human guinea pigs.
But initial translations of the Arabic documents found at the site have not yet shown whether the tests recorded in the films involved biological, chemical or nuclear weapons, or who the men in the filmstrips were.
The looting of the capsules seems likely to become a parable for much of the nature of the American occupation of Iraq.
Some defense officials who discussed the incident on the basis of anonymity said events at the desert site showed the Bush administration's error in sending too few troops to Iraq, a decision that high-ranking American officers in Baghdad shortly after its capture said had curbed their powers to crack down on the looting that ransacked the city.
So far, experts working for the Iraq Survey Group, mostly Americans and Britons with long knowledge of Iraq's secret weapons programs, have failed to discover, or at least to announce the discovery of, materials indicating that Mr. Hussein was developing illicit weapons in the final years of his rule.
The site looted was known to the West. In the Persian Gulf war in 1991, it was heavily bombed. Although the site carried several names, the most common of them, the Saddam State Company, left little doubt of the direct link to Mr. Hussein.
After the site came under close inspection by United Nations weapons inspectors who arrived in the wake of the 1991 war, it lost much of its importance as top-secret programs were transferred.
Now, it is a desolate, windswept wasteland, evocative of the billions of dollars Mr. Hussein spent on weapons programs at a time when Iraq was being steadily impoverished by the wars he started and by the United Nations economic sanctions that followed.
But the site's size, about 20 square miles, its history and its strategic positioning in an area that was Mr. Hussein's main political stronghold, made it an inevitable place for American experts to visit shortly after Baghdad fell on April 9.
In the first half of May, a member of a United States Army unit searching for secret weapons said the team had found the eight radioactive testing towers and the concrete crypts beneath them, and had discovered a large radiation source in each crypt.
As reported by The New York Times on May 12, the team recommended that the area be secured by American forces until the radiation sources could be removed.
But the unit's recommendation was evidently ignored. American officers fear that because the villagers may have been continuously exposed to the gamma radiation for as long as a month before they were taken away by American troops on Oct.8, the risks of sickness among the missing villagers could be high.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An American officer at the spot in the backyard of a home in Amiriya where a radioactive capsule was found. In the clay oven in the foreground, the family baked bread for a month while the capsule lay in the yard. (Photo by Defense Threat Reduction Agency); Iraqis at Amiriya viewed steel tower sections that had been looted from a radiation testing site in the desert. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times); In May, a Pentagon team inspected a steel tower at a radiation testing site that was later looted. (Photo by Judith Miller/The New York Times)(pg. A10) Map of Iraq highlighting radioactive test site. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); ARMED FORCES (88%); ACUTE RADIATION SYNDROME (78%); RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); TERRORISM (59%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; RADIATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; LOOTING; COBALT; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%) ;INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) HUSSEIN, SADDAM; BURNS, JOHN F; SANCHEZ, RICARDO (LT GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%) IRAQ; SHAMIYA (IRAQ); AMIRIYA (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



603 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
In Journalism, Only the Good Die Poor

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
LET'S start with a snap quiz.
 Manuel Vasquez Portal, a Cuban journalist, was arrested this year and given an 18-year prison sentence. His crime was to have written courageously about his country's political and economic failings under Fidel Castro. 
 Stephen Glass, a whiz kid worthy of J. D. Salinger's fictional family of the same name, lied and cheated his way through a short career at The New Republic, making up more than two dozen articles in whole or in part. 
Here's the question:
Which of these two journalists gets star treatment, with a book contract, a movie about his chicanery and interviews on supposedly serious public-affairs shows? No extra points will be awarded for the right answer. It's too obvious.
An extreme example? O.K., let's consider two other journalists.
There is Musa Muradov, the editor of an independent weekly in Chechnya who refused to kowtow to either Russian officials or Chechen rebels. After shootings and bombings killed a couple of his reporters, Mr. Muradov had no choice but to flee in 2001 with his family. He now edits his publication from Moscow, and has to fend off government interference.
Then we have Jayson Blair, who used to type for this newspaper, where he proved to be a serial abuser of facts and a thief of ideas. Mr. Glass at least had the wit to invent his material. Mr. Blair found it more convenient to plagiarize the work of others.
In all likelihood, you have never heard of the gutsy Musa Muradov; frankly, neither had we until a few days ago. But you probably know that Mr. Blair is being amply rewarded for having shamed himself, with a book deal and a planned Showtime movie. He even has the darling of morning television, Katie Couric, eager to conduct an interview that will help him promote the fact-checker's nightmare called his book.
This isn't to say that the valor of a Mr. Vasquez Portal or a Mr. Muradov goes completely unacknowledged.
Indeed, both men are being honored in New York tonight by a group called the Committee to Protect Journalists. Two other bold journalists -- Aboubakr Jamai of Morocco and Abdul Samay Hamed of Afghanistan -- will also be recognized for having soldiered on bravely in countries where press freedom tends to be an oxymoron.
But in the spirit of an old Billy Joel song, the sinners clearly fascinate most of us far more than the saints do. How else can you explain the oversized headlines for the latest Michael Jackson creepiness or for the sexual escapades of Paris Hilton (a name that we had assumed until recent days referred to a hotel in France)?
With the journalists, there is the complicating fact that the good guys are foreigners and the knaves are Americans.
"LOOK at the Daniel Pearl story and the enormous interest in that," said Ann Cooper, executive director of the Committee to Protect Journalists. She was referring to the Wall Street Journal reporter who was brutally murdered while on assignment in Pakistan last year.
Non-Americans killed chasing stories in scary places like Afghanistan and Iraq receive little to no attention, Ms. Cooper noted. Perhaps that's only natural. Still, the value judgments at work can be jarring.
Quite possibly, Ms. Cooper agreed, "there is something to the sinners-versus-saints theory."
The evidence mounts. In New York, the "Law and Order" factory has produced not one but two episodes this fall in which Blair-like self-hating journalists figure prominently. Last week's "L&O" focused on a self-centered war correspondent obviously based on the similarly self-absorbed Geraldo Rivera. Like Mr. Rivera, this journalist delivers an on-air report revealing the positions and future movements of American troops in Iraq.
Films about journalists are in fashion, sort of.
There was "Veronica Guerin," about a valiant Irish journalist gunned down by vicious drug dealers. But in New York, that movie came and went in a blink, sinking almost without a trace. Meanwhile, "Shattered Glass," about the faker Stephen Glass, draws them in at $10 a ticket.
Maybe it's just a case of audiences being accustomed to the idea of journalists as no-goodniks. "Shattered Glass" reinforces that impression. "There are so many show-offs in journalism, so many braggarts and jerks," the Glass character says in a voice-over.
He's right. But there are honorable souls, too, and sometimes they get their due, as several will tonight. The lesson this season, though, is that disgraceful behavior pays better. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); SCHOOL CHEATING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); ETHICS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); PLAGIARISM (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BOMBINGS (67%) News and News Media; Ethics; Plagiarism

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (58%); KATIE COURIC (58%); PARIS HILTON (57%) Clyde Haberman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); MOROCCO (79%); AFGHANISTAN (70%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



604 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Like 'Gladiator,' But With Couture 

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
Though social anthropologists have failed to take note of the phenomenon, the weeks leading up to the end of the year provide men with a nearly unmatched occasion to understand the opposite sex. In late November and December, many women submit themselves to the Darwinian consumer experience known as the sample sale. It is here that a woman outwardly reticent and contained might reveal herself to be as pitbullish as a Marge Schott, the former owner of the Cincinnati Reds, when in close proximity to a pair of tweed culottes at 96 percent off and three dozen other women determined to own them. 
 Once exclusive events to which only the most chicly acquisitive were invited, sample sales have become fairly egalitarian affairs as news of their sites has become virtually a matter of public record. Like so many revolutionaries storming the Bastille, editors of shopping newsletters, magazines and Web sites in recent years began to let ordinary citizens in on this strain of bargain hunting, which at this time of year is in its high season. The Web site www.nysale.com, which began in 1997 for the purpose of disseminating sample-sale information, counts 250,000 registered users, more than three times last year's number. 
 In fact, women can observe men, too, at the moment as more and more have added to the numbers attending sales. "Five guys came in the other day in gray and navy suits and ties that screamed 'banker' and this is really new for us," said Katie Liu, vice president of Staff International, which distributes labels like Martin Margiela and had its sample sale in SoHo last week.
But with the growth of the sample-sale universe has come a growth in opportunity for regret. That so many more people go means prices have gotten much higher, said Dany Levy, founder of the popular Web site Daily Candy, another source of sample-sale information. Certainly, it is hard to imagine how someone might have felt good about herself the day after buying a pair of pink angora D Squared underpants for $90 at the Staff International sale. 
Sample sales typically take place in downtown or garment district showrooms without changing facilities, and it is common to see women grabbing at cocktail dresses in their underwear or trying to squeeze chiffon halters over their turtlenecks, practices that contribute to an atmosphere of emotional abandon in which many injudicious purchases take place. It is in the chaos of a sample sale that an actuary who dresses like Mary Matalin is most likely to decide she really needs a shrunken motorcycle jacket. After all, one never knows when one will meet a comely and well-read member of the Hell's Angels in a Dairy Barn just off the Southern State Parkway.
Clearly, a certain skill set is required to avoid such potential misadventures. "Never express too much interest in a garment," Ms. Levy proclaimed. "If some other shopper sees you eyeing something, she'll go after it like a hawk." 
The inverse of her counsel is just as true. Dale Zeide, who could be found shopping at a Staff International sale, said she would advise a novice never to buy anything just because someone else is chasing after it. "At Andrew Marc a few years ago, I had two jackets in my hand," Ms. Zeide recounted. "These two women were following me around hoping I'd put them back. I bought them both because I thought, 'These are really hot, I have to have them, everybody wants them!' " Of course, later Ms. Zeide realized she didn't want either of them. Last week, though, she fell into another trap having bought a decorative box at a sample sale of Jay Strongwater curios for $750 because it had been $1,500. "I shouldn't have bought it," she said. "I'm getting married, and I've got tons of expenses."
Dr. Ellen Haimoff, a psychologist in Manhattan and Lawrence, N.Y., and a fashion devotee herself, said she would counsel women "to identify the primitive feeling of the hunt" when they find themselves foraging at sales.
Dr. Haimoff pointed out that at sample sales it is harder to deploy the tried-and-true tactic of "leaving the situation, sleeping on it and only coming back the next day if you're really still longing for whatever it is you wanted," she said. The harriedness of a sample sale leads you to believe you will never encounter the object of your desire again, though in truth there is a chance it will not sell at all and materialize at the same designer's sample sale six months later. (The sales are often held twice a year.)
"I was trying on a pair of thigh-high boots recently which were utterly ridiculous," Dr. Haimoff said. "Subliminally I had a picture of myself as Britney Spears or Beyonce. So I'd tell a woman to ask herself, 'What is the subliminal image beyond my desire?' "
Of course, sample sales often present perfectly sound temptations. In many cases, the garments available are not absurd forays made on the part of the designer. Often designers must pay for 60 shirts from a factory when they have orders for only 52 of them from stores, because it is more economical. The leftovers wind up at the sample sale (and so do actual runway samples). Sometimes, too, designers create clothes expressly for their sample sales. With excess fabric from her fall collection, the designer Alice Roi had miniskirts made just for her sample sale because they were popular this season and she had not included any in her collection. 
No one, in fact, would have looked in need of psychological counseling wearing them.

Where to Go to Hunt and Gather

DOLCE & GABBANA -- 660 Madison Avenue, 10th floor. Today, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; tomorrow, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
DIESEL -- 261 West 36th Street, 2nd floor. Today, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.; tomorrow, 10 m. to 4 p.m.
JOHN VARVATOS -- 260 Fifth Avenue. Dec. 2 through Dec. 4. Tuesday, noon to 8 p.m.; Wednesday and Thursday, 9 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.
CATHERINE MALANDRINO -- 275 West 39th Street, 3rd floor. Dec. 3 through Dec. 6, 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.
MICHAEL KORS -- 124 East 58th Street, ground floor. Dec. 2 and Dec. 3. Tuesday, noon to 7 p.m.; Wednesday, 9 a.m. to 2.
TSE -- 418 West 15th Street. Dec. 3 through Dec. 7. Wednesday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sunday, 11 to 5 p.m.

For updates and continued sample sale information: nysale.com or dailycandy.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Without changing rooms, shoppers like Laura Eckstein, at Steven Alan, improvise. Left, men get in on the action at Staff International.; A sample sale at Steven Alan on Franklin Street in TriBeCa. (Photographs by Christopher Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); HAUTE COUTURE (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (75%); WEB SITES (74%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (72%); BASEBALL (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Apparel

ORGANIZATION: CINCINNATI REDS (57%)

PERSON: Ginia Bellafante

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (77%) OHIO, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



605 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Panel Suggests Gas Tax Rise In New Jersey 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
A transportation commission appointed by Gov. James E. McGreevey recommended on Monday that New Jersey increase its gasoline tax by at least 12.5 cents per gallon, a move likely to ignite an angry political battle in a state where motorists love their cars nearly as much as they despise tax hikes.
 At a news conference here, the panel said that New Jersey's depleted Transportation Trust Fund is set to expire next June, and with the state's operating budget facing its third consecutive deficit, the bipartisan commission identified the gas tax as the only feasible way to raise the $750 million a year needed to pay for repairs to roads, bridges and mass transit lines. 
 The commission was created by Mr. McGreevey this year to study ways to replenish the transportation fund and to make recommendations to the Legislature. Any proposed increases to the gas tax require approval by the Legislature. At 14.5 cents per gallon, New Jersey's tax is currently the fourth-lowest in the nation. 
Many elected officials say that the full increase is unlikely, but that an increase of at least 8 cents is probable.
The issue is fraught with so much political fallout that Mr. McGreevey and legislators from both parties reacted cautiously to the panel's recommendation.
Democrats, who won control of the State Senate and strengthened their majority in the General Assembly during elections this month, say privately that they would like to push the measure through before the lame duck session ends in January, so they can present the plan to voters as a bipartisan stroke of fiscal responsibility. In a statement thanking the commission for conducting its study, Mr. McGreevey tried to prod Republican leaders into cooperating, saying that the state needed "prompt action to make our roads safer and to ease congestion."
"Fixing potholes and easing congestion are not Democratic or Republican problems," the governor said.
But Republicans, who have blasted Mr. McGreevey for raising taxes on businesses and casinos, appeared to be in no hurry to embrace a broad-based tax hike. State Senator Leonard Lance, who was chosen as the minority leader on Monday, said that the measure was unlikely to receive any Republican votes until the New Year in a Senate that is split 20-20.
"There is no support in the Republican Senate caucus for a gas tax during the lame duck session," Mr. Lance said.
The conservative wing of the Republican Party took a blunter approach, saying that the increase would quash the state's fragile economic recovery.
New Jersey set up its Transportation Trust Fund in 1984 to invest the gas tax, shield it from the hands of profligate elected officials and try to offer a dependable pay-as-you-go source of funds for long-term construction projects on roads and bridges. By the early 1990's, however, the state began borrowing heavily to pay for projects and by this year the fund devoted nearly two-thirds of its $745 million operating budget to debt service. At current rates, the entire $805 million budget would be needed in 2006 for debt service.
The commission found that the dire financial condition of the fund, which is set to expire next year unless it is reauthorized by the Legislature, had left the state's transportation system in dire need of repairs that would cost nearly $49 billion over the next decade. Among the looming projects were: $7 billion in bridge repairs; $5.5 billion for various projects to reduce traffic congestion; and $900 million to improve traffic safety. The panel found that less than half of the state's roads had adequate pavement and recommended $1 billion in repairs, and said that New Jersey Transit would need $7 billion in capital improvements over the next decade to keep pace with its growing ridership.
Environmental and transportation advocates said they supported investment in road, bridge and rail projects, as long as the state adhered to Mr. McGreevey's pledge to repair existing infrastructure instead of building new roads and encouraging suburban sprawl. But some worried that the commission's proposal was too vague and would leave elected officials the option of raiding the fund to pay for spending unrelated to transportation.
"We have grave concerns about the lack ofspecific language," said Teresa Toro, spokeswoman for the Tristate Transportation Campaign. "We're worried that it might just be a blank check for spending that has nothing to do with the bridge and road repair."
But the report, which was unveiled by the transportation commissioner, Jack Letierre, also recommended that a referendum be put before voters that would dedicate the trust fund money for roads and bridges.
The commission said that a gas tax increase of up to 15 cents might be necessary, depending on the amount of federal money New Jersey receives.
Despite the foreboding painted in the report, lawmakers said they would tread carefully before endorsing the call for the kind of tax rise that might incite voters.
"I'm committed to the renewal of the Transportation Trust Fund," said Richard J. Codey, the Senate president, "but there are various routes to achieve that goal. We want to find the fairest way possible to ensure the safety of those who use our roads and bridges."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gas prices yesterday in Jersey City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL TAX (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GASOLINE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (74%); APPROVALS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); BONDS (66%); CORPORATE TAX (61%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (59%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Taxation; Roads and Traffic; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Finances; Bridges and Tunnels; Stocks and Bonds; Transportation; Taxation

PERSON: LEONARD LANCE (58%) David Kocieniewski; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



606 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Plan Gives Farmers a Role in Fighting Global Warming 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: MANHATTAN, Kan. 

 BODY:
In an unlikely alliance, Kansas Republicans and the advocacy group Environmental Defense are supporting an effort here that seeks to use agriculture as a weapon against global warming.
 While the Bush administration and some Republican lawmakers have expressed skepticism about human causes of global warming, Senator Pat Roberts, a Kansas Republican and an ardent supporter of President Bush, has helped Kansas State University win part of a $15 million grant for a group of institutions to study whether a form of farming called "conservation tillage" can really help combat the effects of global warming. 
 In an interview, Mr. Roberts said he saw evidence of global warming for himself in 1998, when he was part of a Congressional delegation that visited the South Pole.
Now, Mr. Roberts and Environmental Defense, the group best known for fighting on behalf of wetlands and threatened species, like the red-legged frog, speculate that if farmers change the way they farm their land, they can pull carbon out of the atmosphere and help mitigate the effects of global warming, and get paid for doing so. 
There are already proposals to trade carbon credits like hog or cattle futures.
Some big corporations operating in countries that signed the international climate treaty known as the Kyoto Protocol are planning to use the carbon credit system that the protocol established, if the protocol takes effect. They intend to pay farmers in participating countries for carbon credits while they search for other ways to cut their carbon emissions. President Bush has rejected the Kyoto agreement. Congress is now considering a system that will cap national carbon emissions and allow the trading of carbon credits among farmers.
"This is an enormous opportunity for farmers," said Richard Sandor, who helped pioneer Chicago futures trading in the 1970's and now leads the Chicago Climate Exchange, the start-up venture that will soon begin trading the rights to emit gases associated with global warming. "They can now grow two crops: one above the ground -- food; and one below ground -- carbon." 
Mr. Roberts wants the federal government to offer incentives to farmers who help improve the environment and replenish the soil with much-needed carbon.
"It's simple: carbon in the air -- bad; carbon in the soil -- good," Mr. Roberts said recently in a telephone interview. "We've got to get more out of the air and into the soil."
Catching and holding carbon is called sequestration. It keeps the carbon from being incorporated into carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming.
In agriculture, sequestration involves using an array of land management techniques, like no-till farming, in which tractors do not plow the land before planting, that improve the soil and that allow plants to better absorb carbon from the atmosphere.
About 10 percent of Kansas farmers already practice no-till farming (largely because of the soil benefits), but experts say that this technique and some others, like the new forms of crop rotation and the use of "cover crops" during the winter, could help alter the environmental landscape.
One way to reduce carbon in the atmosphere is to cut emissions from cars and power plants. Using agriculture to pull carbon from the atmosphere is an alternative.
"It's estimated that American agriculture can offset about 20 percent of carbon emissions in the U.S.," said Dr. Charles Rice, a professor of soil microbiology at Kansas State, which is part of a consortium of universities studying carbon sequestration. "If we had to switch from coal and oil to hydrogen immediately, we couldn't do it. It's not economically or technologically feasible."
There are, of course, some scientists and environmental groups, like Greenpeace, that are critical of carbon sequestration. They favor sticking to stricter controls on power plant and industrial carbon emissions as a way to combat global warming. They say land management techniques may let heavy industries off the hook and prevent them from curbing emissions.
Other experts doubt that trustworthy ways can be found to measure how many tons of carbon are banked, and thus how many credits a farmer may earn.
Then there is the question of permanence, some say. What if a farmer gets credits that are sold to a utility, and then the soil is mismanaged and carbon lost? 
But scientists and environmental experts say whether or not heavy industry curbs emissions, carbon sequestration is a powerful tool in the effort to improve degraded soils and the combat global warming.
"We just see this as a tremendous opportunity for farmers and the environment," said Melissa Carey, a climate change policy expert at Environmental Defense. "You can get atmospheric benefits, water quality, soil quality, local air quality benefits. That's a pretty attractive package."
In pushing the benefits of conservation tillage, and the work being done at Kansas State, Environmental Defense has also scored some big political points: an alliance that means that a prominent Republican is involved in global warming issues.
Indeed, Senator Roberts is leading a spirited push here in Kansas, a state dominated by agriculture. 
"The Kansas prairie is a great big carbon sponge," Mr. Roberts said. "If you pay the farmers to maintain these conservation projects, you'd be able to clean up the environment."
To reap these benefits, however, farmers will have to change the way they farm the land. 
One of the most significant changes would be moving to no-till farming. Soil experts say plowing the soil releases carbon stored underground, it degrades the soil and contributes to soil erosion and other problems.
"Tillage is one of the worst things you can do to the soil," said Dr. Rice at Kansas State. "Spraying the soil with a chemical is often less harmful."
By not tilling the soil, and allowing plant life and natural debris to decompose, agricultural experts say, the soil will strengthen and more readily absorb carbon from the atmosphere through plant photosynthesis.
Researchers say that for centuries farmers have depleted soils by constant plowing, typically to kill weeds.
By some estimates, about 50 percent of the carbon stored under agricultural lands has been lost over the last 200 years because of plowing and turning over the soils.
Pulling that carbon back into the soil, and keeping it trapped there by simply planting in the dead plant debris after winter will not only improve the soils, experts say, it will help solve a host of other environmental problems as well, like soil erosion.
"Soil degradation is the No. 1environmental problem," said Dr. Rattan Lal, a professor of soil science at Ohio State University and one of the leading authorities on carbon sequestration. "It leads to water quality problems, soil problems and the release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere," he said. "We now have six billion people; by 2050 we'll have nine billion. To do that we'll have to double food production. And to do that we're going to have to put nutrients back into the ground. Conservation tillage is one way to feed the people, and it also leads to carbon sequestration and mitigates global warming."
Of course, farmers have been reluctant to abandon age-old traditions of plowing the soil, but new equipment and chemicals are making no-till farming more popular around the world. 
With conservation tillage, herbicide use to control weeds does increase, but some researchers say the additional herbicides are not more harmful because the reduction of erosion leads to less runoff and because water filters through the soil better, leading to better degradation of the chemicals.
Dr. Rice has several experimental plots where he is evaluating soil from plowed land and soil from no-till land. "Look, there's carbon trapped inside of these," he says after picking up chunks of no-till soil and cupping them in his hand.
Researchers here and at other universities are now trying to find ways to measure carbon absorption in the soil. But they warn that even if America's agricultural land is made super-absorbent, the soils can only absorb so much carbon before they become saturated.
That could take 30 or more years. But after that, researchers here say, big industry will either have to cut emissions, or find new ways to combat global warming.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Pat Roberts wants to pay farmers who replenish the soil. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); CARBON OFFSETS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CROP PRODUCTION (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FUTURES (87%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (75%); WETLANDS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); STARTUPS (66%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (66%) Weather; Carbon; Agriculture; Global Warming; Farmers; Weather

ORGANIZATION: KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY (57%) Environmental Defense

PERSON: PAT ROBERTS (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) David Barboza; Pat (Sen) Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Kansas

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



607 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 854 words

PERSON: Roger C. Altman 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Merger Maker Who Learned to Think Small

BYLINE:  By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
IF Roger C. Altman went in for that sort of thing, the soft putty of his life story would conform easily to the well-worn grooves of the self-adulatory business tycoon autobiography. Left fatherless at age 10 and raised by his librarian mother, he paid his way through college and business school, made a pile of money with financial derring-do and went on to serve two presidents a decade apart. 
 But Mr. Altman, a 57-year-old investment banker who is the chairman of a new organization that was the brainchild of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton to create jobs in upstate New York, emphatically does not go in for that sort of thing. 
 "We weren't poor," he said when asked about his upbringing in Brookline, Mass., in the 1950's. "I grew up in simple surroundings, but we were not poor."
This is the way a conversation goes with Mr. Altman in his Park Avenue office. A visitor mentions an accomplishment, and Mr. Altman, while not pooh-poohing it, shrugs his shoulders and chalks it up to fate and fortune, both good and bad. 
Mr. Altman has had his fair share of the two. Yes, he has been wildly successful as a mergers and acquisition man, joining the fates of such giants as CBS and Viacom and Pillsbury and General Mills. But he also saw a promising Washington career washed up by the Whitewater scandal when he resigned under pressure as deputy secretary of the Treasury Department in 1994 over testimony he gave to the Senate Banking Committee.
It is a pattern repeated several times in Mr. Altman's life: stunning success in business, to which he came by chance, and sometimes bruising encounters with government service, the vocation he once thought was his destiny. 
"I've had plenty of ups and downs," Mr. Altman said, capping the knee of one of his lanky legs with his clasped hands. "You need healthy doses of both."
In 1954, Mr. Altman, then 8, was having Thanksgiving lunch with his family at a restaurant in Boston when his father spotted Senator John F. Kennedy at a nearby table. 
"My father was always a very gregarious type, and he went over and took me with him," Mr. Altman said. "And for 1.1 seconds I met John F. Kennedy."
HE cannot recall now whether this encounter spurred his interest in government, but it left an indelible impression on him. In high school and at Georgetown University, Mr. Altman became a student government geek. He also met another aspiring politician.
"I hold the minor distinction of running for president of the student body of Georgetown the year before Bill Clinton did," Mr. Altman said. "We both lost."
The two were a year apart and were not close friends, but they did get to know each other. Mr. Altman planned to attend law school as a path to a career in government. But one morning he woke up and realized that he had no interest in the law. So he applied to business school instead and attended the University of Chicago.
He signed on after graduation with Lehman Brothers, and had a stellar career there, making partner at age 28, the youngest in the firm's history. Within a few years he heard the call of his first love, politics, and in 1977 he joined a young Carter administration as an assistant Treasury secretary. It was a rough transition and he nearly got fired for incompetence, he said. After Mr. Carter lost to Ronald Reagan in 1980, Mr. Altman went back to Wall Street and happily stayed there until 1992, when Bill Clinton brought him back. 
This time Mr. Altman was ready for Washington. He became part of the president's inner circle of economic advisers and was frequently mentioned as a possible successor to the septuagenarian Lloyd Bentsen as Treasury secretary. But in 1994 Mr. Altman resigned.
Mr. Altman returned to New York with his wife, Jurate Kazickas, and their three children, who are now 19, 18 and 14, settling back into their comfortable Upper East Side life. He immediately plunged back into the business world as well.
Working alone out of borrowed office space, he brokered the deal that merged CBS with Westinghouse in 1995. He formed a firm, Evercore Partners, which has taken off, doing $112 billion in mergers and acquisitions. It also owns American Media Inc., the tabloid publishing company that puts out The Star, The National Enquirer and other tormentors of his famous friends, especially the Clintons. 
"I don't know how the Clintons really feel about it, but we laugh about it when we see each other," Mr. Altman said. 
Now he is plunging back into public life as chairman of New Jobs for New York, an organization that will strive to bridge the gap between upstate and downstate by taking the wealth of New York City's markets to upstate companies. The goal is to think small, something Mr. Altman and Mrs. Clinton learned in different ways during those first tough years of the Clinton administration.
"I am a big believer that if you can create 10 jobs in the Southern Tier that wouldn't otherwise happen, that's a great success," Mr. Altman said. "That's 10 families supported. I know you might say, well, does that really compare to merging CBS and Viacom or General Mills and Pillsbury? And the answer for me is yes, it does."

GRAPHIC: Photo: ROGER C. ALTMAN (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); JOB CREATION (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (65%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (64%); RESTAURANTS (63%) Labor

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (54%); GENERAL MILLS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: New Jobs for New York (Orgn)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (54%); GIS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (54%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (54%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (54%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (54%)

ROGER ALTMAN (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%) Lydia Polgreen; Roger C Altman; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York City

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



608 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 3128 words

HEADLINE: Dead 'Man' Walking

BYLINE: GEORGIA SCURLETIS and BRIDGET ANDERSON


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students learn about science's contribution to the debate over whether juvenile offenders should be eligible for capital punishment. They then synthesize their knowledge by presenting at a mock trial for the sentencing phase of Lee Malvo's criminal trial. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students learn about science's contribution to the debate over whether juvenile offenders should be eligible for capital punishment. They then synthesize their knowledge by presenting at a mock trial for the sentencing phase of Lee Malvo's criminal trial.
Author(s):
Georgia Scurletis, The New York Times Learning Network
Bridget Anderson, The Bank Street College of Education in New York City
Suggested Time Allowance: 1 hour
Objectives:
Students will: 1. Speculate about the culpability of juvenile offenders as opposed to adult offenders.
 2. Examine recent research in the field of adolescent brain development by reading and discussing "Young Killer: Bad Seed or Work in Progress?"
 3. Research information that will help both the defense and prosecution present their perspectives on the possible capital punishment of Lee Malvo.
 4. Synthesize their understanding of the Malvo case by presenting at a mock trial for the sentencing phase of Malvo's criminal trial.
Resources / Materials:
-student journals 
 -pens/pencils
 -classroom blackboard
 -copies of "Young Killer: Bad Seed or Work in Progress?" (one per student) 
 -six slips of paper or index cards, each containing the name of a phase of the sentencing trial (prosecution's opening statement; prosecution's cross examination of witness Steinberg; prosecution's closing argument; defense's opening statement; defense's direct examination of Steinberg; defense's closing argument). 
 -resources for researching the Lee Malvo trial and Dr. Laurence Steinberg's stance on juvenile development (newspaper and journal articles, computers with Internet access)
Activities / Procedures:
1. WARM-UP/DO NOW: In their journals, students respond to the following prompt (written on the board prior to class): "A recent murder was committed by a 12-year-old who was pressured by a group of peers chanting, 'You're chicken! We dare you to do it!' Should the 12-year-old be tried as an adult? Should this 12-year-old be eligible for death under the death penalty? What variables influence your decisions?" After a few minutes, have students share their responses with the class. List the variables they use in their arguments on the board. Do students' views change regarding the death penalty if the murderer is said to be a 22-year-old instead of a 12-year-old? If so, why? Reveal that these fictional scenarios were created by Dr. Laurence Steinberg, an advocate for viewing young offenders as "less guilty than adults under the law." Is there such a thing as "less guilty"? Psychologically, is the maturity level of a juvenile different than that of an adult?
 2. As a class, read and discuss "Young Killer: Bad Seed or Work in Progress?," focusing on the following questions: 
 a. Who will be responsible for deciding Lee Malvo's fate? 
 b. How old was Malvo when the sniper attacks were committed? 
 c. Why have scientists entered the debate over "how young a defendant must be for the death penalty to be excluded as an option"? 
 d. How do Dr. Steinberg and Dr. Scott feel about capital punishment for juvenile offenders?
 e. How many states allow the death penalty for offenders who committed their crimes as juveniles?
 f. How is a "juvenile" defined in these states?
 g. Why does Robert Blecker consider himself a "retributionist advocate of the death penalty"? 
 h. Why does Steinberg see juvenile offenders as "less guilty" than their adult counterparts? 
 i. Why is Steinberg currently studying 1,400 juvenile offenders? 
 j. How does an adolescent's brain change as it matures? 
 k. How could Malvo's looks influence how the jury decides his fate?
 3. Explain to students that today they will be preparing for a mock trial that will decide the fate of Lee Malvo, assuming that he is determined to be guilty of murder in his current criminal trial. The mock trial will present evidence in the sentencing phase of Malvo's trial. In other words, this trial will determine if Malvo will be eligible for death under the state of Virginia's death penalty law. (In Virginia, 16 is the minimum age at which offenders become eligible for execution; Malvo was a 17-year-old when the sniper murders occurred.) For the purposes of this mock trial, only one witness will be called to the stand--Dr. Laurence Steinberg, the subject of the article "Young Killer: Bad Seed or Work in Progress?."
 Divide the class into six groups and have each group select a slip of paper or index card with the name of a phase of the trial (prosecution's opening statement; prosecution's cross examination of witness Steinberg; prosecution's closing argument; defense's opening statement; defense's direct examination of Steinberg; defense's closing argument). Using all available resources, each group fulfills the following tasks in preparation of the trial (adapted from explanations found at Bradley University's Web site: http://www.bradley.edu/campusorg/trial/basic_info/stages/index.html):
 Opening Statement Groups-- These groups will present an outline or summary of their cases. The opening statement is given in the future tense, as in "testimony will show" or "evidence will show." The statement is not intended to be argumentative, but rather to lay out a general picture of the facts.
 Direct Examination Group (by the defense)-- This is the first questioning of the witness. Counsel who called the witness to the stand conducts the examination. Questions must be open ended. (Since Steinberg is the witness, questions regarding a juvenile's brain development should also be included.)
 Cross Examination Group (by the prosecution)-- Conducted by the counsel for the party opposed to the one who produced the witness and occurs after direct examination. It is this group's job to find "holes" in the witness' testimony. Cross examination is not constrained to issues only raised in the direct examination.
 Closing Argument Groups-- The closing argument is when counsel presents a summation of the case. It usually covers the testimony heard, facts from evidence brought before the court, and legal arguments. Unlike the Opening Statement, counsel speaks in the past tense (i.e. "as testimony has shown" and "as evidence showed") while counsel actively engages in persuasive speech to argue for their case.
 After groups have completed their trial preparations, they should decide who will present each aspect of their group's case at the upcoming trial.
 4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: In a later class, there will be a mock trial for the sentencing phase of Lee Malvo's criminal trial. While each group is presenting their assigned phase of the trial, other class members should take notes on the major points. For a written homework assignment, each student acts as a juror and writes a sentencing decision for Lee Malvo, based on his or her class notes from the trial.
Further Questions for Discussion:
--Does capital punishment act as a deterrent to criminals?
 --What is the relationship between a state's political make-up and its stance on capital punishment?
 --How can a criminal on death row be pardoned?
 --How can one's religious views affect their feelings about capital punishment?
 --How can a defendant's looks sway a jury?
 --How has DNA evidence been introduced to save some death row inmates?
 --What kind of legal assistance is available to death row inmates? 
Evaluation / Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on initial journal entries, participation in class discussions, group research, presentations at the mock trial, and written decisions. 
Vocabulary:
presiding, spared, retributionist, advocate, callousness, diminishes, culpability, antisocial, delinquency, chronological, maturation, prefrontal, cortex, cognitive, synaptic, myelinization, limbic, speculative, ramifications, momentum, heinous, trumps, mitigation, allegedly, wherewithal
Extension Activities:
1. Read William Golding's terrifying look at the power of peer pressure-- "Lord of the Flies." Based on this novel, write an essay where you speculate about how Golding would feel about the culpability of a juvenile versus an adult. Cite specific dialogue or scenes from the novel to support your view.
 2. Create a detailed map of the brain that identifies the parts of the brain and their functions. On a transparency that could be placed over the original map, highlight those areas of the brain that Steinberg argues are still developing during adolescence.
 3. How is a "juvenile" legally defined in the United States? Create a chart that shows the responsibilities and rights an adult possesses as opposed to a juvenile.
 4. Create a timeline of childhood to adolescence psychological development that identifies, in general terms, when certain mental capacities develop and form. Include information from Dr. Steinberg's studies in the timeline.
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Fine Arts- Write and perform a skit that demonstrates the power of peer pressure among adolescents. After your performance, ask your audience of peers to analyze whether or not your depiction is accurate or believable.
 Geography- Research what states have the death penalty and of those, what are the 21 states with a death penalty for people younger than 18? Then, color-code a map of the United States to indicate in which states a juvenile offender is eligible for the death penalty. Look at the demographics and the political leanings of these states' elected bodies. Based on your findings, can you make any generalizations about why particular states have certain views toward capital punishment? Summarize your theories in a short essay to accompany the color-coded map.
 Mathematics- Research death penalty execution statistics as they relate to different variables, such as age, race, gender, state, crime, etc. Choose a handful of statistics that you find compelling and graph them to show their relationship to one another (for example, you could show years on one axis and number of executions on another).
 Media Studies- Read Sister Helen Prejean's 1982 account of acting as a spiritual advisor to a convicted murderer on death row in Louisiana. After you have read her book, watch Susan Sarandon's portrayal of Prejean in the film "Dead Man Walking" (1988). Write a critique of the film based on how "true to life" it seems after reading Prejean's memoir.
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8 
 Civics Standard 8- Understands the central ideas of American constitutional government and how this form of government has shaped the character of American society. Benchmarks: Understands how specific provisions of the United States Constitution (including the Bill of Rights) limit the powers of government in order to protect the rights of individuals; Knows opposing positions on current issues involving constitutional protection of individual rights such as limits on speech, separation of church and state, cruel and unusual punishment, search and seizure, and privacy; Understands important factors that have helped shape American society
 (CTSS - 'social', '6-8', 'civ2')
 Civics Standard 15- Understands how the United States Constitution grants and distributes power and responsibilities to national and state government and how it seeks to prevent the abuse of power. Benchmark: Understands how the legislative, executive, and judicial branches share power and responsibilities
 (CTSS - 'social', '6-8', 'civ3')
 Civics Standard 18- Understands the role and importance of law in the American constitutional system and issues regarding the judicial protection of individual rights. Benchmarks: Understands the importance of the rule of law in establishing limits on both those who govern and the governed, protecting individual rights, and promoting the common good; Knows principal varieties of law (e.g., constitutional, criminal, civil), and understands how the principal varieties of law protect individual rights and promote the common good; Understands the basic concept of due process of law; Understands the importance to individuals and to society of major due process protections such as habeas corpus, presumption of innocence, fair notice, impartial tribunal, speedy and public trials, right to counsel, trial by jury, right against self incrimination, protection against double jeopardy, right of appeal; Understands why due process rights in administrative and legislative procedures are essential for the protection of individual rights and the maintenance of limited government; Understands current issues regarding judicial protection of the rights of individuals 
 (CTSS - 'social', '6-8', 'civ3')

Science Standard 14- Understands the nature of scientific knowledge. Benchmarks: Knows that all scientific ideas are tentative and subject to change and improvement in principle, but for most core ideas in science, there is much experimental and observational confirmation; Understands that questioning, response to criticism, and open communication are integral to the process of science 
(CTSS - 'science', '6-8', '14') 
Science Standard 16- Understands the scientific enterprise. Benchmarks: Knows that people of all backgrounds and with diverse interests, talents, qualities, and motivations engage in fields of science and engineering; some of these people work in teams and others work alone, but all communicate extensively with others; Knows that the work of science requires a variety of human abilities, qualities, and habits of mind; Knows various settings in which scientists and engineers may work; Knows that throughout history, many scientific innovators have had difficulty breaking through accepted ideas of their time to reach conclusions that are now considered to be common knowledge; Knows ways in which science and society influence one another 
(CTSS - 'science', '6-8', '16')
 Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses style and structure appropriate for specific audiences and purposes; Writes persuasive compositions; Writes compositions that speculate on problems/solutions
 (CTSS - 'english', '6-8', '1')
 Language Arts Standard 8- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Plays a variety of roles in group discussions; Asks questions to seek elaboration and clarification of ideas; Listens in order to understand a speaker's topic, purpose, and perspective; Conveys a clear main point when speaking to others and stays on the topic being discussed
 (CTSS - 'english', '6-8', '8')
 Grades 9-12 
 Civics Standard 8- Understands the central ideas of American constitutional government and how this form of government has shaped the character of American society. Benchmarks: Understands the necessity for a written Constitution to set forth the organization of government and to grant and distribute its powers; Knows how the distinctive characteristics of American society are similar to and different from the characteristics of other societies
 (CTSS - 'social', '9-12', 'civ2')
 Civics Standard 15- Understands how the United States Constitution grants and distributes power and responsibilities to national and state government and how it seeks to prevent the abuse of power. Benchmarks: Understands how the overall design and specific features of the Constitution prevent the abuse of power by aggregating power at the national, state, and local levels to allow government to be responsive; dispersing power among different levels of government to protect individual rights, promote the common good, and encourage citizen participation; and using a system of checks and balances; Understands how and why beliefs about the purposes and functions of the national government have changed over time
 (CTSS - 'social', '9-12', 'civ3')
 Civics Standard 18- Understands the role and importance of law in the American constitutional system and issues regarding the judicial protection of individual rights. Benchmarks: Knows historical and contemporary practices that illustrate the central place of the rule of law; Knows historical and contemporary events and practices that illustrate the absence or breakdown of the rule of law; Knows historical and contemporary illustrations of the idea of equal protection of the laws for all persons; Understands the effects of Americans relying on the legal system to solve social, economic, and political problems rather than using other means, such as private negotiations, mediation, and participation in the political process; Understands the importance of an independent judiciary in a constitutional democracy; Knows historical and contemporary instances in which judicial protections have not been extended to all persons and instances in which judicial protections have been extended to those deprived of them in the past; Understands why due process rights in administrative and legislative procedures are essential for protecting individual rights and maintaining limited government
 (CTSS - 'social', '9-12', 'civ3')
 Science Standard 14- Understands the nature of scientific knowledge. Benchmarks: Knows ways in which science distinguishes itself from other ways of knowing and from other bodies of knowledge; Knows that scientific explanations must meet certain criteria to be considered valid; Understands how scientific knowledge changes and accumulates over time; Knows that from time to time, major shifts occur in the scientific view of how the world works, but usually the changes that take place in the body of scientific knowledge are small modifications of prior knowledge 
(CTSS - 'science', '9-12', '14') 
Science Standard 16- Understands the scientific enterprise. Benchmarks: Understands that individuals and teams contribute to science and engineering at different levels of complexity; Understands that science involves different types of work in many different disciplines; Knows that creativity, imagination, and a good knowledge base are all required in the work of science and engineering 
(CTSS - 'science', '9-12', '16')
 Language Arts Standard 1- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that are focused for different audiences; Writes compositions that fulfill different purposes; Writes persuasive compositions that evaluate, interpret, and speculate about problems/solutions and causes and effects; Writes reflective compositions
 (CTSS - 'english', '9-12', '1')
 Language Arts Standard 8- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Asks questions as a way to broaden and enrich classroom discussions; Adjusts message wording and delivery to particular audiences and for particular purposes
 (CTSS - 'english', '9-12', '8')

        
Young Killer: Bad Seed or Work in Progress?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (92%); JUVENILE CRIME (91%); SENTENCING (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); WITNESSES (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); MURDER (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); WRITERS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (73%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (63%) American Government; Civics; Creative Writing; Individual Rights; Language Arts; Literature; Personal Health; Science; Scientists; The Human Body; The Influence of the Mass Media; The Scientific Method

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012



609 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Getting Roosevelt Into One Volume, a Trick in Itself

BYLINE:  By ALAN BRINKLEY; Alan Brinkley is the Allan Nevins professor of history and the provost at Columbia University.

 BODY:
FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT
Champion of Freedom
By Conrad Black
Illustrated. 1,280 pages. PublicAffairs. $39.95.
 It will come as something of a surprise to those familiar with Conrad Black as the powerful and energetic head of a large newspaper publishing empire that he has also managed to write an ambitious biography of Franklin Roosevelt, nearly 1,300 pages long. 
 It may also come as a surprise to those who know of the generally conservative politics of Lord Black (who resigned last week as chief executive of his company, Hollinger International, but not as its chairman, during a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation) that he reveres Roosevelt as the greatest American of the 20th century, perhaps of any century, and the most important international leader of modern times.
However unexpected, this enormous book is also one of the best one-volume biographies of Roosevelt yet. It is not particularly original, has no important new revelations or interpretations and is based mostly on secondary sources (and rather old ones at that). But it tells the remarkable story of Roosevelt's life with an engaging eloquence and with largely personal and mostly interesting opinions about the people and events he is describing. Lord Black's enormous admiration for Roosevelt is based on many things. He reveres what he calls Roosevelt's great courage and enormous skill in moving the United States away from neutrality and first toward active support of Britain and China in the early years of World War II and then toward full intervention. He admires Roosevelt's skill in managing the war effort and his deftness in handling the diplomacy that accompanied it.
He sees Roosevelt, even more than Churchill, as the architect of a postwar world that for half a century worked significantly better than the prewar world of catastrophic conflicts and economic disasters. Roosevelt, he argues, helped legitimize democracy in the eyes of the world and created alliances and relationships that maintained a general peace through the rest of the 20th century. Churchill, once the war was essentially won, became a futile defender of the dying British empire. 
Roosevelt, in the last months before his death, was promoting a very different vision of world order based on international organizations and national self-determination (even if with great power supervision). Of the major political leaders of the age of World War II, Lord Black writes, "Roosevelt was the only one with a strategic vision that was substantially vindicated in the 50 years following the Second World War." 
Lord Black is also a stalwart defender of the New Deal. His defense is not simply the selective approval that many conservatives give to the way it saved capitalism and ensured the primacy of free markets. Lord Black admires it all: Social Security, the Wagner Act, farm subsidies, securities regulation, wage and price legislation, even Roosevelt's almost incendiary oratory in 1936 welcoming hatred of the forces of power and greed.
He expresses gingerly criticism of Roosevelt's reluctance to move aggressively to combat segregation, of his support of Japanese-American internment and his relatively modest response to the Holocaust, and of his occasional poor judgment in the people he trusted. (He is particularly contemptuous of Henry A. Wallace, but no more so than of conservative figures like Breckinridge Long, the genteel anti-Semite who obstructed the granting of American visas to European Jews in the late 1930's.)
Despite these and other reservations, Lord Black never departs from his overall judgment of Roosevelt, perhaps best illustrated in his use of a quotation from Churchill as a chapter title: "He Is the Greatest Man I Have Ever Known."
Many who consider the age of Roosevelt implicitly take sides in the difficult marriage of Franklin and Eleanor. Lord Black is clearly a Franklin supporter. He concedes that Eleanor Roosevelt was an admirably committed defender of great moral causes, but he portrays her, somewhat unfairly, as both an unrealistic political activist and an unpleasantly hectoring force in her husband's life.
Scholars disagree on how much Roosevelt's paralysis from polio shaped his subsequent public life. Lord Black strongly (and I believe correctly) endorses those who consider his disability one of the central shaping forces of his career and Roosevelt's response to it one of his principal claims to greatness. It is a very rare person, he argues, who could have the courage and determination necessary to overcome these limitations and pursue such an important, indeed great, life.
There is, of course, room for a much different portrait of Roosevelt: less reverential, more subtle in its judgments, more cognizant of his limitations and failures. And there are much better books on many aspects of Franklin Roosevelt's life. Geoffrey C. Ward is still the best chronicler of Roosevelt's prepresidential life. Joseph P. Lash and Blanche Wiesen Cook have provided much richer portraits of Eleanor and her relationship with her husband. Many historians have provided much more perceptive and nuanced analyses of the New Deal and of Roosevelt's diplomacy.
But while Lord Black may not be the best chronicler of any single aspect of Roosevelt's life, and while he may offer little that scholars don't already know, he has created a powerful and often moving picture of the life as a whole. Truly great men inspire many exceptional biographies, and this is not the first or last for Roosevelt. But it is a worthy and important addition to the vast literature on the most important modern American leader.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Conrad Black (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); LITERATURE (77%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLISHING (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (57%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: BRINKLEY, ALAN; BLACK, CONRAD; ROOSEVELT, FRANKLIN DELANO (1882-1945) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT: CHAMPION OF FREEDOM (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



610 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Economy's Growth Is Revised Upward to 8.2% 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
The nation's growth was even more torrid in the third quarter than previously estimated, the government reported Tuesday, while a new survey of consumer confidence suggested that growth should remain strong next year.
 The Commerce Department raised its estimate for growth for the quarter from an annual rate of 7.2 percent -- already the fastest rate in nearly two decades -- by a full percentage point, to 8.2 percent. 
 Most of the change stemmed from an increase in business inventories, as companies raced to keep up with demand by restocking their depleted warehouses. Despite that push, economists said, inventories were still extremely low and the process of restocking was far from over. 
 Meanwhile, corporate profits jumped 11.6 percent, the biggest quarterly increase since 1992, and business investment climbed faster than the government had first estimated. Though the gains were bigger than some economists had expected, they did not change many opinions about the continued direction of the economy: up, but not nearly at the pace of this summer.
 In another promising development, the Conference Board reported on Tuesday that its index of consumer confidence jumped by 10 points in November. Though consumer confidence surveys can be a poor indicator of consumer spending, this latest one comes as companies have finally begun to hire after more than two years of retrenchment.
 Neither government officials nor private economists expect the economy to keep growing as it did during the summer, when it was fueled in large measure by the latest tax cuts as well as by a drop in interest rates, which made it attractive for people to refinance their homes.
 Most economists predict that the economy will grow at an annual rate of nearly 4 percent through next year, and that unemployment will gradually edge down from its current rate, 6 percent. 
 That would be good news for President Bush, who has wrestled with a weak economy and rising unemployment through most of his first three years in office. 
 "These are spectacular numbers, though they are certainly not sustainable," said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial Service Group in Pittsburgh. "But even if you can grow at half that rate, consumers will be going into the holiday season in a very good mindset."
 Today's news did not have a big impact on stock markets, because many forecasters had been expecting the upward revision.
 The biggest change from the government's previous estimate of third-quarter growth had to do with inventories. The government originally estimated that businesses depleted their inventories by $21 billion, but its new estimate, based on more recent data from September, showed that inventories declined by only $3 billion.
 Mr. Hoffman of PNC Financial estimated that the change to inventories accounted for 80 percent of the upward revision in economic growth.
 The change could mean that growth in the months ahead will be a bit slower than expected, because companies will not be under as much pressure to build up inventories.
 Business spending, which has been anemic for much of the past two years, now appears to be growing robustly. The government said spending on equipment and software climbed 18.4 percent in the quarter, compared with its original estimate of a 15.4 percent increase. 
 But economists said inventories still shrank during the summer from what were already extremely low levels. As a result, they said, restocking should continue to play a role for at least several months.
 At the same time, the new figures raise questions about whether the blistering growth this summer resulted primarily from the short-term stimulus effects of tax cuts and lower interest rates. 
 Consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of the total economy, appears to have climbed more slowly in the last few months.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Confidence"Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100. Nov.: 91.7Oct.: 81.7Sept.: 77.0 Graph tracks index from June 2002 to November 2003. (Source by The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STATISTICS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR)

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



611 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Buyers Raise Limit on Loans 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
The two largest sources of federal housing finance said yesterday that they would increase the size of home loans that they can buy from mortgage lenders in a move that could support home buying, already at a hectic pace, and support the nation's nascent economic recovery.
 The agencies, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, said they would increase the maximum dollar amount for mortgages they can finance to $333,700 from $322,700, effective Jan.1. 
"It can't hurt," said Chris Low, chief economist at FTN Financial. "Certainly it helps in cities like New York and Los Angeles where it's tough to find houses within the conforming loan limits." 
 Home loans that the agencies can purchase, known as conforming or conventional loans, carry a lower interest rate than loans that exceed the sizing limit. Those larger loans are known as jumbo, or nonconforming, loans and they carry higher rates.
 "By obtaining a mortgage that Fannie Mae is eligible to buy, in 2004, as many as 95,000 home buyers could save up to $21,900 over the life of a 30-year mortgage," Fannie Mae's chairman and chief executive, Franklin D. Raines, said.
 "It does allow some people, at the margin, to qualify for a larger loan," said Douglas Duncan, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association. "It is relatively small but it is a net benefit to the economy." 
 With higher loan limits, some homeowners will be able to refinance from jumbo mortgages into conforming mortgages, shaving their borrowing costs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%) HOUSING; MORTGAGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%)

ORGANIZATION: FANNIE MAE; FREDDIE MAC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

PERSON: FRANK RAINES (58%); BRUCE DUNCAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



612 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Taking Cargo and People, Chilean Airline Flourishes 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
These are terrible times for airlines all over Latin America, as one carrier after another closes, staggers under huge losses, scales back routes or reluctantly merges with rivals. But at the shiny new glass headquarters of LanChile here, things have never been better.
 In this year's third quarter, profit tripled, to $22 million, its best quarter ever, and profits for 2003 are expected to reach a record $64 million. As a result, LanChile's share price in Chile has more than doubled since the start of the year, and the value of its American depository rights has gained more than 140 percent. 
 "They're a model company whose management and ownership know how to be efficient and have a clear vision," said Robert Booth, chairman of Aviation Management Services, a Miami consulting firm. "It's an ideal situation, and they are doing everything right." 
 At first glance, it would seem unlikely that a company based in a country of only 15 million, isolated in the far southern reaches of the continent, should have become a Latin American powerhouse. But since the privatization of the national flag carrier a decade ago, LanChile has specialized in turning what seem to be obstacles into opportunities.
 While other regional carriers, for example, have been battered by both weak local economies and the downturn in passenger traffic after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, LanChile has largely been insulated. Cargo accounts for an extraordinary 40 percent of its business, compared with 5 percent or less for carriers like American, Delta and United.
 "Lan is actually two concerns that are of equal importance, with a business model that is unique in the world," Alejandro de la Fuente, LanChile's chief financial officer, said in an interview. "We live in a distant land that exports a lot of perishable products, operating long-haul planes that are capable of carrying a lot in their holds, and that means we can carry fewer passengers and still be profitable."
 With a free trade agreement between Chile and the United States scheduled to take effect on Jan. 1, the prospects are good for additional growth in the export of items like salmon, fruit and flowers. Company officials predict a 15 percent increase in revenue from both cargo and passenger traffic for next year and estimate that by 2006 total revenue will rise to $2.3 billion, up nearly half from the current $1.6 billion.
 In a region where nationalism and protectionism still work to defend national flag carriers, Chile is also unusual in having an open-skies policy, which LanChile officials say has forced them to be more efficient in managing labor and fuel costs. The company dominates domestic routes, carrying 80 percent of passengers, but the small size of the market has forced it to look beyond its borders for traffic and profits.
 With Argentine carriers weakened by that country's economic collapse, LanChile dominates the busy Santiago-Buenos Aires route, which it also uses to feed its flights to Miami and Madrid. The company attracts passengers with a fleet of planes more modern than those of most of its rivals. It also benefits from its membership in the OneWorld Alliance, along with the likes of American Airlines and British Airways, and the code-sharing arrangements that flow from that.
 In the rest of the region, by contrast, the picture remains largely cheerless. In Central America, regional carriers like Taca and Copa Airlines of Panama are doing well, but most South American airlines are struggling to emerge from lean years dragged down by dollar-denominated debts and weak local currencies that drive up the cost of leasing aircraft and buying fuel.
 Before it devalued its currency in 1999, for instance, Brazil, the region's largest and most attractive market, had four major carriers. Since then, one has gone bankrupt, a second has been forced to shrink its fleet and routes, and the remaining two, Varig and Tam, are being pressed by the Brazilian government to merge, despite the resistance of their own directors and employees.
 "That's a real mess, and there is no way of telling what will happen," Mr. Booth said. "There's a real problem with merging very different corporate cultures." He added that a merger would be made more difficult by "the lack of continuity in the corner office at Varig, where they keep changing C.E.O.'s all the time" as the company's situation worsens.
 But problems in neighboring countries have also benefited LanChile. In Peru, Ecuador and most recently the Dominican Republic, with the attraction of its huge traffic between Santo Domingo and New York and Miami, the company established subsidiaries after the collapse of local carriers. These newcomers have quickly become profitable and allowed LanChile greater use of its planes.
 LanChile's own figures indicate that its cargo planes are typically in the air 15 hours a day, nearly twice the typical time. During the day, for example, a plane arriving in Miami after an overnight run from Santiago will make a short hop to Santo Domingo or Guayaquil, Ecuador, before heading back to Miami to make the return trip home that night.
 "They're very good at keeping their planes flying and flying," said Ben Laidler, who follows LanChile for UBS Securities here. "American flies to Santiago but has to keep their plane sitting around all day, which is a huge waste of money that doesn't affect LanChile at the other end."
 Given LanChile's strong performance and the expansion it has been enjoying even in difficult times, inevitably there is speculation about additional moves. Carriers like Avianca of Colombia, which is in Chapter 11 but has enormous appeal as a cargo carrier, are actively being shopped by owners whose core business is not aviation and who are thus eager to cut their losses.
 "They're not done," Mr. Laidler said, noting that LanChile has also acquired cargo carriers in Brazil and Mexico and a minority interest in a United States-based freight airline. "But there is a huge difference between what LanChile has done in Peru and Ecuador and actually buying something and inheriting a complicated legacy of labor contracts and plane leases."
 Others argue that LanChile has reached a stage in which its go-it-alone philosophy serves as an impediment to growth. Fernando Dozo, an aviation consultant in Buenos Aires, maintains that "they don't have a corporate culture of association with partners" and thus lack the capital to become more than a regional force.
 "To consolidate their position, they need a foothold in the Argentine and Brazilian markets," he said. "But that would be a tough bet for them on their own, one that could turn out like Napoleon's invasion of Russia."
 LanChile officials acknowledged that they had been approached about taking over airlines in Argentina and Colombia and that they are interested in expanding their presence in both countries. But they say they are wary of being too ambitious or cocky.
 "We're going to continue to go step by step, and not take big leaps with some sort of a spectacular mega-acquisition," Mr. de la Fuente said. "When we expand, we always want to be prudent and not do anything that would make us lose our leverage or our investment-grade rating."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A LanChile cargo plan at the airport in Quito, Ecuador, an example of the airline's growth in South America. (Photo by Estefano Rota/JetPhotos.net) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (73%); MARKET SIZE (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PROTECTIONISM (67%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

ORGANIZATION: LANCHILE AIRLINES 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) CHILE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ECUADOR (79%) CHILE

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



613 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Gays Respond: 'I Do,' 'I Might' And 'I Won't' 

BYLINE:  By PAM BELLUCK; Katie Zezima contributed reporting for this article. 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
No sooner had Massachusetts' highest court ruled that same-sex couples should be allowed to marry than Mike Sullivan's sister was on the phone volunteering to be the flower girl at his wedding.
 After all, Mr. Sullivan and his partner, Ed Barton, have been together since 1981, they wear rings to symbolize their commitment, and they jointly own a home north of Boston. 
 But if the state issues marriage licenses to gay men and lesbians, Mr. Sullivan and Mr. Barton will not be walking down any aisle. They believe that Mr. Barton's family would disapprove, and they feel marriage would complicate their finances. 
"It's great that some people might be able to marry," Mr. Sullivan said. "But it's not the right thing for us."
In the aftermath of last week's court ruling, which could mean that same-sex marriages can take place as early as May, gay couples in Massachusetts and elsewhere are considering whether or not to wed. 
The response is hardly monolithic. In interviews with about 20 couples and people who study gay culture, those most interested in marriage had children or pressing concerns about health or mortality. Younger couples, from an era when gays were less closeted, were inclined to consider marriage an entitlement that would erase their perceived second-class status. And couples who came of age in the 1960's and 1970's were more likely to see marriage as a heterosexual institution, symbolizing a system that they could not, or would not, want to be part of.
Of those who rejected marriage, some felt it would be superfluous, and the offer of marriage even a little insulting, considering the length of time they had been together. Others felt that even though their relationships had lasted years, they might not be ready for such a step, or they were soured on the idea by previous, heterosexual marriages.
Many who wanted to marry said they hoped to eliminate the awkwardness of having the trappings of marriage without the title. Although couples from New York to California cited practical concerns, like tax laws and health benefits, few considered them the sole reason to wed. Sometimes those issues did not argue for marriage, especially if couples already shared property and had domestic partner benefits.
"I don't think you're going to see gay people doing what some nongays do: meet, have a wild weekend together and run off to Vegas to get married," said Steve Smith, a political consultant and gay advocate in Los Angeles. "For those who do get married it will mean a whole lot."
Mr. Smith and others who study gay issues said fewer couples than expected -- about 6,500 in three years -- had taken advantage of Vermont's civil-unions law, and fewer than expected had registered for domestic partner benefits. In Canada, where gay marriage became legal in June, 1,547 couples had received licenses by Oct. 31, 638 from the United States. Many gay Canadians have shied from marriage, preferring to stay in the counterculture.
"For all of our lives, getting married was not something that gay people were expected to do," Mr. Smith said. "For straight people you grew up with that expectation. A lot of friends I'm talking to are saying, hey, we think this is a really important principle but we're not ready to do it yet. Gays will be more cognizant that it's not just a slip of paper."
Couples that would marry often cited multiple reasons.
"A lot of it is our fiscal responsibilities," said Jennifer Hess, who with her partner of 18 years, Jennifer Bragdon, is raising a daughter, 19, from Ms. Bragdon's long-ago marriage, and a son, 10. Ms. Hess noted that the couple, of Cambridge, Mass., were ineligible for the income and inheritance tax benefits of married couples. She also says that marriage would be easier for their son, Emmett, whose fear of being teased makes him reluctant to talk to children about his lesbian parents.
"It's also just the clarity of our relationship," said Ms. Hess, who works at a software company. "It's so unclear when you say your partner, your lover, your roommate, your friend. When you say marriage, everyone knows what it means. It's what they've got and I don't have."
Chuck Colbert and Troy Golladay are so gung-ho on marriage that "the day the decision came out, I asked him and he said yes," said Mr. Colbert, 48, a writer and theology student. The Cambridge couple are already thinking of wedding dates: Patriot's Day, Halloween or July 11, Mr. Colbert's parents' anniversary.
Their financial incentives include the ability of Mr. Colbert to get health benefits and use of the car provided by Mr. Golladay's employer, Hallmark. But, Mr. Golladay, 34, a marketing manager, sees marriage as a statement that "whatever misconceptions people have about same-sex relationships, we're here to say that we're just as normal as everyone else."
Some couples do not want to be like "everyone else." Kenneth Sherrill, chairman of the political science department at Hunter College in New York and a specialist in gay issues, said that when he and his partner of 36 years, Gerald Otte, were married in Canada, they could not persuade their friends to do the same.
"I had friends who had ideological reasons for not wanting to get married," said Professor Sherrill, 61. "There are a lot of people, particularly who were activists in the 60's and early 70's, who view marriage as an instrument of an oppressive system, symbolic of many of the bad things that happened to women."
That is why Joan Tronto, 51, also a Hunter political science professor, would not marry her partner of 10 years, Anamary Oakes, 54. "Marriage is such a patriarchal institution in its history," Professor Tronto said. "I don't need the imprimatur of the state, and I don't want it. Gay marriage will make the movement more effective in the short run, and it will make its goals more narrow in the long run. You can imagine a situation in which gays would go along with restrictions on sexuality because, after all: 'If gay people really wanted to have sex, they could just get married like everyone else. What's wrong with those drag queens? I didn't fight to get married so that they could parade around.' "
David Gorman, 42, of Jackson Heights, in Queens, said marrying would be "aping a heterosexual convention" that would not strengthen his commitment to his partner.
Mr. Sullivan, 43, and Mr. Barton, 45, reject marriage for more practical reasons. "My partner's family is very traditional, very Southern," Mr. Sullivan said. "I won't say they hate me. One year for Christmas they gave us bath towels with his initials and my initials. But a wedding would push them over the edge."
What is more, Mr. Sullivan, an assistant manager for a convenience store, said that Mr. Barton, a software developer, "is way more financially responsible than I am. I like to give presents, I like to entertain, I like to charge my credit cards. He likes to save and save and save. We've tried hard to keep our finances separate, and if we got married, he'd be assuming my debt."
Some couples said they would marry largely for symbolic reasons.
"To me it makes very little difference economically, but I think it's important to show people that there's nothing they need to be afraid of," said Steve Ginsberg, 48, a screenwriter in California.
Jim Griggs, 45, who lives in Iron Station, N.C., near where he and Lane Lunceford own True Colors Carpet and a leather bar, said, "We have a lot of friends who, not to sound big-headed, kind of look up to us since we've been together 24 years, and we'd probably do it for them." 
Marrying would be a low-key affair, Mr. Griggs said: "Go do the legal paperwork and have a hug and a kiss, and then go back to work."
Mr. Colbert and Mr. Golladay have a more traditional wedding in mind.
"The tricky part is I'm Catholic and Troy is a secular Mormon," said Mr. Colbert, who, perhaps in a fit of optimism, is writing his thesis on "the Catholic case for same-sex marriage."
At least they know they would register at Pottery Barn, Crate and Barrel and Restoration Hardware. The wedding would be "an emotional thing that will connect both of us and our families more," Mr. Golladay said. "Plus, hopefully we get some good stuff."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Sullivan, left, and Ed Barton say marriage would complicate their finances, while Jennifer Bragdon, below left, and Jennifer Hess, with their son, Emmett, say marriage would clarify their finances. (Photos by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); MARRIAGE (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); COHABITATION (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); APPEALS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) MARRIAGES; HOMOSEXUALITY; PERSONAL FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT (84%)

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) MASSACHUSETTS

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



614 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET-- Queens; 
Industrial Hub Emerges in College Point

BYLINE:  By SANA SIWOLOP 

 BODY:
For 25 years, Gelmart Industries, a large lingerie company that manufactures its garments abroad, made its home and distribution headquarters in College Point, Queens. 
 Trying to cut costs, the company moved to New Jersey in 1999. By February, however, Gelmart expects to be back in its 140,0000-square-foot building in College Point, and by many accounts, it is not the only industrial company that is giving the area a second look. 
 Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the New York City Economic Development Corporation, says the agency, as well as the city's Industrial Development Agency, is working with five companies that are looking to either expand plants in College Point or to move there. 
 With its easy access to airports and major highways, College Point has long been a draw for industry. 
 There are certainly less expensive areas in the borough, as well as those that offer better access to mass transportation, local real estate executives say. Nonetheless, while the market for industrial property has stumbled lately in other parts of New York, it has stayed fairly stable in College Point, said John Maltz, the managing director at Greiner-Maltz, a commercial real estate firm based in Long Island City, Queens. 
 Mr. Maltz said that the availability rate for industrial property in the College Point area was under 3 percent, and that while rental demand was flat, prices for properties that were for sale had risen an average of 25 percent in each of the last two years. 
 Gelmart decided to return to College Point not only because it was offered some $1.3 million in sales and real estate tax breaks by the Industrial Development Agency, but also because it found that it was not necessarily saving money in New Jersey. "Labor costs certainly were not any cheaper," said the company president, Ezra Nasser, who added that Gelmart was planning to spend about $1 million to renovate its College Point building, which it still owns. 
One company looking to move to College Point is Ares Printing and Packaging, which makes paper boxes and point-of-purchase paper displays. Ares, which has outgrown the 112,000 square feet of space it is renting on four floors of a building at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, is working with the Economic Development Corporation to acquire a vacant four-acre site at College Point Corporate Park. It wants to erect an 80,000-square-foot building. 
 The owners of Ares, George and Jerry Filippidis, said that they had looked at about five locations in New Jersey as a possible new home for their company before selecting College Point, partly because the corporate park was centrally located and well maintained. 
 More than 200 companies are already in the park. One industrial tenant who hopes to expand there is Crystal Window and Door Systems, which makes 400,000 windows and doors a year. Crystal already owns a 160,000-square-foot plant at College Point Boulevard and 31st Avenue, but Jade You, the office manager, said that the company was working with the Economic Development Corporation to acquire an empty 5.5-acre site across the street with the goal of building a 375,000-square-foot plant. 
 Elsewhere within the corporate park, construction is expected to begin shortly for a large automotive training base that was first proposed years ago by a current park tenant, the 650-member Greater New York Automobile Dealers Association. 
 In 1999, the association acquired 7.2 acres of property that is near its existing 54,0000-square-foot building on Whitestone Expressway. The goal, said Stuart Rosenthal, an association vice president, was to build a training base for automotive technicians. Mr. Rosenthal said that the new base should open by mid-2005. 
 Jonathan Fair, an executive vice president at Economic Development Corporation, said that the flurry of development activity was spurred, in part, by the shrinking number of city-owned parcels there. "This has forced people to act," he said. 
 Last May, the agency requested proposals for developing the last large piece of land now available at the park. The 23-acre site is part of the old Flushing Airport, and is zoned for light manufacturing. 
Ms. Patterson said that her agency hoped to select a developer by the end of the year.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers producing windows at Crystal Window and Door Systems, which is planning to expand its manufacturing operation on College Point Boulevard in Queens. (Photo by Richard Lee for The New York Times) Map of Queens highlighting Gelmart Industries and surrounding areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); LINGERIE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: CRYSTAL WINDOW & DOOR SYSTEMS LTD (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332321 METAL WINDOW & DOOR MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3442 METAL DOORS, SASH, FRAMES, MOLDING & TRIM (60%)

PERSON: SIWOLOP, SANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; COLLEGE POINT (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



615 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
S.&P. 500 Gains for a 3rd Day, Led by Financial Shares

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose for a third day yesterday, led by financial shares. The Goldman Sachs Group and Morgan Stanley gained after an analyst recommended buying shares of the brokerage firms because of a rebound in mergers and acquisitions.
 Xerox recorded the largest advance in the index as at least three analysts raised their ratings on the company. Xerox said Monday that annual earnings would increase because of cost cuts. 
 Stocks got a lift after reports on consumer confidence and third-quarter economic growth exceeded forecasts, reinforcing optimism that growth will be fast enough to support profits.
 "The strength in the economy, growth in profits, and continued low interest rates will continue to underpin the market," said John M. Bartlett, director for economics at Commerce Trust, which manages $10 billion in St. Louis. Economic growth will "help profits, which would help the stock market and the capital-market firms," he said.
 The S.&P. 500 added 1.81 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,053.89. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 16.15 points, or 0.2 percent, to 9,763.94. The Nasdaq composite index lost 4.10 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,943.04.
 Almost two stocks advanced for every one that declined on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.36 billion shares traded on the Big Board.
 The markets are closed tomorrow for the Thanksgiving Day holiday and will shut at 1 p.m. Friday.
 Stocks typically rise during Thanksgiving week. The Dow has climbed an average 0.66 percent in the week in the last 50 years, according to Ned Davis Research. That is almost five times the average weekly increase of 0.14 percent.
 Goldman Sachs increased $1.33, to $96.25, and Morgan Stanley rose 87 cents, to $55.10. An analyst at J.P. Morgan, William Tanona, said that the securities firms would benefit from a rebound in underwriting and mergers and acquisitions. He upgraded his rating on Goldman to overweight from neutral and he raised Morgan Stanley to neutral from underweight. 
 Lehman Brothers sank $1.04, to $72.57. Mr. Tanona reduced the stock to neutral from overweight.
 Xerox jumped 82 cents, or 7.7 percent, to $11.44. A Merrill Lynch analyst, Jay Vleeschhouwer, lifted his rating to buy from neutral, and a Lehman Brothers analyst, Caroline Sabbagha, raised Xerox to equal weight from underweight.
 The company forecast per-share profit of 67 cents to 72 cents for next year and 90 cents to $1 for 2005, up from the 50 cents to 55 cents expected this year.
 Citigroup added 14 cents, to $46.88. The company bought Washington Mutual's consumer finance unit for $1.25 billion in cash. Washington Mutual dropped $1.60, to $44.95. A UBS analyst, Eric Wasserstrom, downgraded the stock to neutral from buy.
 Staten Island Bancorp surged $2.15, to $22.73. The company agreed to be bought by Independence Community Bank, a Brooklyn-based savings and loan association, for $1.5 billion in stock and cash. Independence Community Bank dropped $1.99, to $36.75.
 Health care shares declined, led by Johnson & Johnson as the Food and Drug Administration said a Johnson & Johnson heart device was associated with 10 more deaths. The device, known as a stent, was used in 70 patients who died, the agency said. The stock lost 79 cents, to $50.69.
 Johnson & Johnson shares were also hurt after Mylan Laboratories, a generic drug maker, said that it would start selling its version of Johnson & Johnson's Duragesic skin-patch painkiller no later than the patent expiration date in July. Mylan added 96 cents, to $24.68.
 Technology shares, the strongest performers during this year's rally, declined as investors shifted into financial and consumer stocks. Microsoft fell 33 cents, to $25.40; Intel lost 39 cents, to $33.07; Cisco Systems declined 18 cents, to $22.62; and Dell dropped 78 cents, to $34.36.
 Treasury prices gained. By late in the day, the benchmark 10-year note rose 10/32, to 100 16/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.19 percent from 4.23 percent on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.927
High Rate: 0.940
Coupon Yield: 0.955
Low Rate: 0.920
Median Rate: 0.935
Total applied for: $62,971,056
Accepted: $25,561,356
Noncompetitive: $33,376

The four-week bills mature Dec. 26.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph compares yields of selected Treasury securities from yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MERGERS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); THANKSGIVING (69%); INTEREST RATES (54%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (94%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); STATEN ISLAND BANCORP INC (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (94%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (94%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



616 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: France and Germany Given More Time to CurbDeficits 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER and PAUL MELLER; Mark Landler reported for this article from Frankfurt and Paul Meller from Brussels. 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
Europe's finance ministers have agreed to suspend the fiscal rules that underpin the euro, eliciting sighs of relief from France and Germany, but driving a wedge through the 12-member monetary union andraising fears about the stability of the single currency.
 Four smaller European countries opposed the compromise, saying it was a victory of political muscle over economic prudence, while the financial markets greeted the news with a collective shrug. 
 The divergent reactions to the announcement on Tuesday that France and Germany would be given extra time to reduce their budget deficits reflect a new reality: even though 300 million Europeans adopted the euro in 1999 with remarkable ease, they differ radically over how to run a monetary union.
 Europe's fiscal fracture could reverberate through the global economy, which increasingly relies on the euro as an alternative to the dollar. Investors in the United States and Asia are balancing their hopes for an economic revival in Europe with the need for a stable currency. 
 "It's a very serious blow to Europe's fiscal discipline," said Thomas Mayer, the chief European economist at Deutsche Bank. "We've now seen that two key countries cannot keep their promises."
 Germany had pushed for the deficit rules as a prerequisite for the euro. Now, Germany and France contend they cannot cut their state budgets further without stifling a fledgling economic recovery. For them, the agreement was a simple matter of putting the national interest first.
 But for the European Commission and the European Central Bank, which have joint custody of the euro, it amounted to a grievous breach in the rules that safeguard the stability of the currency. And some critics say Germany and France have now set a lamentable precedent, just as Europe is expanding eastward with 10 new members. To join the union, these states must also meet the fiscal rules.
 Pedro Solbes, the European Union's commissioner of monetary affairs, said he would consider whether to take the showdown with Germany and France to the European Court of Justice. "The commission deeply regrets that these proposals do not follow the spirit and rules of the stability and growth pact," Mr. Solbes said, referring to the agreement that puts limits on the fiscal policies of the countries that use the euro.
 In Frankfurt, the European Central Bank said the deal carried "serious dangers" and risked "undermining the credibility of the institutional framework and the confidence in sound public finances." Analysts predicted that the bank would raise interest rates to counteract the tide of red ink in France and Germany. The bank's new president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said last week that unless governments controlled spending, "unwelcome inflationary pressures" could arise.
 For all the ominous words, the euro rose modestly in trading against the dollar on Tuesday, while stock markets across the Continent were stable. Investors here seem less concerned about fiscal profligacy in Europe than the pace of economic growth in the United States.
 "People in the markets look at the U.S. and say, 'Deficits aren't a problem for the U.S; why are they a problem for Europe?"' said Nicholas Sobczak, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs in Paris.
 Indeed, the United States is expected to run a deficit next year that will be above 4 percent of gross domestic product -- significantly higher than the 3 percent ceiling mandated for the euro's member nations. 
 But with the European Union poised to expand, some critics question whether the Baltic states and the Central European countries will play by the rules, once they are admitted, given that the euro zone's two largest members are now flouting them
 Hungary, in particular, has struggled with a deficit that soared to as high as 9 percent of its G.D.P. Experts there say the new countries are likely to adhere to the rules -- up to a point.
 "To get into the club, you have to obey the rules," Peter Akos Bod, a former president of the Hungarian central bank, said in an interview. "But once you are in, you can make some noise."
 At issue on Tuesday was whether the European Union would compel France and Germany to make deeper cuts in their budgets next year to bring their deficits to levels below 3 percent of G.D.P. 
 Under the terms of the stability pact, members are subject to a lengthy procedure that begins with warnings and ends with heavy fines if they fail to bring deficits below the 3 percent ceiling.
 France and Germany are likely to breach that limit in 2004 for the third consecutive year. Yet despite warnings from the commission, they offered to make more modest cuts, saying anything bigger would strangle their economies just as they are showing the first hints of recovery.
 Spain, Finland, the Netherlands, and Austria -- all of which have well-ordered state finances -- favored holding Germany and France to the deeper cuts in 2004, and levying fines if necessary.
 But France and Germany, which together account for half the economic output of the so-called euro zone and wield at least as much political influence, won the support of Italy and other countries to fend off the scalpel. Under the deal reached Tuesday, they have until 2005 to come into compliance.
 Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, who is trying to push a tax cut through the German Parliament, labeled the deal a "reasonable compromise."
 "There are phases in the economy when one has to stress growth more than budget consolidation," he said at a conference in Berlin.
 The French finance minister, Francis Mer, who had steadfastly defied calls by Brussels to cut spending, said, "This is the best mix between the need to follow the pact and the need given by the economic situation."
 Officials in smaller countries complained that they would pay for the lack of discipline by the French and Germans.
 "You can't put it upon the Austrian taxpayer to pick up the bill for higher interest rates caused by deficits in France and Germany," said Karl-Heinz Grasser, the Austrian finance minister.
 The finance minister of the Netherlands, Gerrit Zalm, said the stability pact had been shoved "in the refrigerator."
Politics aside, some critics said the economic climate had improved enough in France and Germany to make such extraordinary measures unnecessary. Both economies resumed growing, albeit at a snail's pace, in the third quarter, after shrinking in the previous quarter.
 In Germany, a monthly survey of business sentiment by the Ifo economic institute rose by more than expected in November, to its highest level since January 2001. In France, domestic consumption rose 1.6 percent in October, indicating that the French are starting to spend again.
 "This talk about keeping the delicate flame of recovery alive is ridiculous," said Daniel Gros, the director of the Center for European Policy Studies in Brussels. "This recovery is coming in spite of, not because of, what their fiscal policies are doing in France and Germany."
 Easing the pressure on Berlin and Paris now, Mr. Gros said, would allow the governments to defer needed economic changes and cling to spending practices that helped run up these deficits.
 As Europeans debated whether Tuesday's agreement represented the end of the Continent's fiscal union, or merely a temporary suspension, several noted the curious reversal of roles. Germany, once a bulwark of fiscal strength, insisted on the creation of the deficit rules in the 1990's to prevent countries with runaway budgets from jeopardizing the stability of the euro.
 Now, Germany's red ink has put the rules themselves into limbo. Theo Waigel, the former German finance minister and an architect of the monetary union, said in an interview with a Munich newspaper on Tuesday that the compromise was a "catastrophe for Europe."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The German finance minister, Hans Eichel, left, talked with his French counterpart, Francis Mer, in Brussels yesterday. The two countries have been given extra time to reduce their budget deficits and bring them in line with rules for nations that use the euro currency. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C9) Chart: "Out of Bounds"As they prepared for monetary union, the 12 Euro nations agreed to keep their budgets in surplus, or run a deficit of no more than 3 percent. All 12 managed to comply in 1999 and 2000, when the common Euro currency was introduced and the world economy was thriving. But in recent years, first Portugal and then the union's two largest economies, France and Germany, have run deficits that broke the rules, and the European Union expects Italy to follow suit soon. 'Excessive' deficits (deeper than the 3 percent limit set by the Stability and Growth Pact) Graph tracks general government budget balance for France, Italy, Germany, and Portugal from 1995 to an estimated 2003 and forcasted through 2005. (Source by European Commission)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EURO (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TRENDS (77%); INFLATION (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (71%); INTEREST RATES (64%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (64%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (64%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (82%) EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (57%) LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); GERMANY (95%); FRANCE (94%); PORTUGAL (92%); BELGIUM (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) FRANCE; EUROPE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



617 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Senate Passes Measure To Overhaul Medicare
Congress gave final approval to a bill that would help millions of older Americans buy prescription drugs, and President Bush immediately embraced the legislation, which promises the biggest changes in Medicare since its creation in 1965.
 By a vote of 54 to 44, the Senate cleared the measure, giving the president a political victory on an issue that has historically worked to the advantage of Democrats. Page A1. 

Baby boomers are a big reason the AARP decided to endorse the Medicare bill. A1.

Some experts expect the Medicare drug benefit may prompt employers to drop coverage for retirees, which could lead to a revolt among the elderly. A18.

Setback for Genentech Drug
Genentech said its experimental cancer drug Avastin failed to significantly prolong survival in a small trial of patients with colorectal cancer. That is a comedown from a previous, larger trial that had such positive results it was the talk of a cancer conference earlier this year. Still, Avastin did prolong survival by 29 percent in the new trial, though this was not statistically significant, perhaps because there were too few patients. C3.

Fate of Spending Bill Uncertain
A group of Republican and Democratic senators -- angry about a provision demanded by the Bush administration to increase the number of television stations that a broadcast network can own -- still plans to oppose the spending bill, which comes up for a vote in the Senate next month. A17.

Economy Grew Faster Than Thought
The Commerce Department raised its estimate for growth for the third quarter from an annual rate of 7.2 percent, which was already the fastest rate in nearly two decades, by a full percentage point, to 8.2 percent. C4.

The Standard & Poor's 500 rose for a third day, adding 1.81 points, to 1,053.89. The Dow Jones industrials rose 16.15 points, to 9,763.94. The Nasdaq fell 4.10 points, to 1,943.04. C9.

Financial Stress for Jackson
Michael Jackson's financial well-being appears fragile, though he is still considered wealthy. He has at times mortgaged the royalties to songs he owns to raise cash and is the subject of many lawsuits. A16.

$401 Million Deal for Nuclear Plant
Constellation Energy said it would buy the Robert E. Ginna nuclear plant from Rochester Gas and Electric for $401 million. C13.

Another Hewlett Executive Leaves
Jeffrey J. Clarke, left, a leader of the management team that put the operations of Hewlett-Packard and Compaq Computer together in the wake of the controversial merger, resigned abruptly. Mr. Clarke, the former chief financial officer of Compaq, is the latest in a series of executive departures. C2.

Philip Morris's Historic New Home
Philip Morris USA expects to save about $60 million a year by moving 270 of its 680 New York employees to a new headquarters in Richmond, Va., that is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Commercial Real Estate. C5.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,763.94 up 16.15Nasdaq composite -- 1,943.04 down 4.1010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.19% down 0.04The euro -- $1.1786 up 0.0016The dollar -- 109.41 yen down 0.02 Graph: "TODAY" shows durable goods orders, personal income, and new-home sales figures from April to September. Durable Goods OrdersOctober figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.7% Personal IncomeOctober figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.4% New-Home SalesOctober figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.4% Graph tracks the daily closing price of Genentech shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); CANCER (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); CANCER DRUGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); NETWORK TELEVISION (70%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); COLORECTAL CANCER (69%); LITIGATION (68%); MERGERS (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); POWER PLANTS (64%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GENENTECH INC (85%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%); ROCHESTER GAS & ELECTRIC CORP (51%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (51%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (50%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



618 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
A little-known player succumbs in the scandal as others worry that 'too big to fail' doesn't apply.

BYLINE:  By Patrick McGeehan 

 BODY:
ELIOT SPITZER obviously meant what he said when he warned last week that some financial services companies might be shut as part of the latest round of scandal on Wall Street.
 Mr. Spitzer, the crusading attorney general of New York, testified before a Senate panel about overhauling the mutual fund industry and warned that the punishments could be devastating. Ratcheting up the language, he acknowledged that a criminal conviction could be a "death penalty" for a brokerage company, but said no company should be considered too big to fail. 
 Such talk is considerably stronger than the language Mr. Spitzer used in pressing his case against the biggest Wall Street firms for publishing misleading stock research. In reaching a $1.4 billion settlement of that matter, he said he had chosen not to prosecute Merrill Lynch because doing so could have been devastating to Merrill, the biggest brokerage firm and one of the biggest employers in New York.
 In the end, no company went out of business because of the stock-research investigations. But already one small company caught up in the mutual fund scandal is being shut.
 Mr. Spitzer and the Securities and Exchange Commission filed charges yesterday against the Security Trust Company, which processes fund trades, and three of its former executives. The Office of the Comptroller of Currency said it would force the company to be dissolved by March 31.
 "The company is history," Mr. Spitzer said.
 He and the commission have charged the company that manages the PBHG Funds in Pennsylvania, and its founders, and he has said he may bring charges against the Wisconsin-based company that manages the Strong Funds, a unit of Strong Capital Management, and its chairman, Richard Strong. 
 Nobody on Wall Street stood up to defend Security Trust, which regulators said had brokered deals that allowed a large hedge fund to make improper trades of mutual funds, or Mr. Strong, who admitted he had been trading in and out of his company's funds for his own benefit. But some people on Wall Street are starting to worry about the possible repercussions of a rush to prosecute the people who manage $7 trillion of investors' savings.
 Officials in some other states that are home to fund companies implicated in the scandal are also worried that regulators elsewhere may not be sensitive enough to the economic importance of the companies.
 "We're very sensitive to the fact that Strong Capital Management is a large employer in the state of Wisconsin," said Lorrie Keating Heinemann, secretary of the state Department of Financial Institutions in Wisconsin. "But our primary role is as a regulator."
 Ms. Heinemann said that she was coordinating her investigation with the state attorney general's office but that the company's fate was in the hands of the S.E.C., which is its primary regulator.
 Securities regulators usually seek to strike settlements with large companies, often extracting fines and dismissals, rather than charging them with crimes and driving them out of existence. For example, when traders at Salomon Brothers were found to have tried to corner the government bond market in 1991, the firm's management was forced out but it escaped what Mr. Spitzer calls "the death penalty." 
 "You need to get the bad actors out of this business," said Marc Lackritz, president of the Securities Industry Association, the trade group that represents brokerage firms. But he added, "There's always a risk in these situations because you're dealing with trust and confidence.
 "There's a fragile balance. It's obviously important to have strong enforcement, but it's also important not to have inflated rhetoric that scares people."
 Some critics of Mr. Spitzer's approach have argued that he could create a panic among investors through the serial prosecution of fund companies and their employees. But Mr. Spitzer countered that view by pointing to the continued flow of money into mutual funds. Money may be moving from companies that have been implicated to others that have not, but it is not leaving the industry, he said.
 Mr. Spitzer said it was important to send the message that no company, no matter how big, is above the law. He and some of his critics suggested that his actions in the end might not quite match his tough talk. 
 "There's strategy and there's tactics," Mr. Spitzer said in an interview. "There will not be anything done by my office or by anyone that will shock the capital markets."
 Arthur Levitt, the former chairman of the S.E.C., said that although Mr. Spitzer's more aggressive stance and tone may seem improper to some regulators in Washington, it reflects the sinking attitudes of investors. 
 "This kind of extreme language often brings about a reaction, but I haven't seen that reaction kick in yet because the public disgust is still running its course," Mr. Levitt said.
 "There are some dangers in what he's doing because he can overplay his hand," he added. "But right now the public is so disgusted with the business community that they want to see heads roll, they want to hear intemperate conversation and they want to see people go to jail."

GRAPHIC: Photo: New York's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, at a Senate hearing in Washington this month. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); BONDS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (76%); STRIKES (74%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (67%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; HEDGE FUNDS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); SECURITY TRUST CO (82%); STRONG CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%) SECURITY TRUST CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%) MCGEEHAN, PATRICK; SPITZER, ELIOT L (ATTY GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



619 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Philip Morris USA Starts Its Move to a Historic Building 

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va. 

 BODY:
Michael J. Schewel, the secretary of commerce and trade for the commonwealth of Virginia, was driving to work one morning when a news report on the radio caught his attention: Michael R. Bloomberg, the mayor of New York, was proposing to further toughen his city's antismoking law.
 Mr. Schewel's thoughts turned to Philip Morris, a company that had been manufacturing cigarettes in this state capital since 1929 but had maintained its headquarters in New York. Now that city would soon have one of the strictest antismoking laws in the nation."Philip Morris," the secretary remembers thinking, "must be getting tired of this." 
 For three decades, state and local officials had periodically tried to persuade Philip Morris, a unit of the New York-based Altria Group, to move its headquarters to this tobacco-friendly city, but this time the pitch that Mr.Schewel set in motion in the summer of 2002 succeeded. Philip Morris, which announced in March that it was relocating its executive offices, is in the process of moving 270 of its 680 New York employees into new headquarters in Henrico County, just west of the Richmond city line. 
 Philip Morris officials say the move will save about $60 million a year and is unrelated to New York's new smoking restrictions or the recent increase in its cigarette tax.
 The company is giving up its Park Avenue address, opposite Grand Central Terminal, for a stretch of West Broad Street that is dotted with big-box stores, auto body shops and fast-food restaurants. Its new headquarters, however, are not some ordinary suburban office park building, but rather a four-story 250,000-square-foot building listed on the National Register of Historic Places. 
 It was designed by Gordon Bunshaft of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, the Pritzker-award-winning architect whose works include the Lever House on Park Avenue, the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington, and the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library at Yale University.
 Completed in 1958 as the headquarters for Reynolds Metals, the renamed Philip Morris USA building was intended as a showcase for aluminum and contains 1.2 million pounds of the metal. The cantilevered entrance canopy is made of aluminum, and even the carpets and drapes were woven with aluminum fibers. 
 On the east and west sides of the building are 14-foot-high louvers that shift throughout the day, based on the calculations of an astronomical clock. On cloudy days, an electric eye overrides the clock, allowing the louvers to stay open to let in natural light. 
 Set in a 35-acre park designed by Charles F. Gillette, a leading Southern landscape architect, the Reynolds building was also an early example of a corporate campus.
 The Reynolds building "was very innovative," said Dr. Charles F. Bryan, the president of the Virginia Historical Society. "It was making a statement, not only in the way it looked but also in terms of climate control and open, light-filled space. It was so very different from anything you would have found, not only in Richmond, but in the South."
 When Alcoa, which is based in Pittsburgh, bought Reynolds in 2000, it was unclear what would happen to the Richmond building. At one point, Dr. Bryan said, the historical society considered moving into the building to prevent its being torn down and perhaps replaced by a superstore. "Various interests were preparing to make a bid on the property," he said, "and there was a concern that the building would be razed." His organization ultimately decided that the building was too large for its needs.
 But there was one institution that did want the building -- the University of Richmond, whose verdant campus lies less than three miles away. "We saw it as a long-term investment," said Dr. William E. Cooper, the president of the private university which has close ties to the Reynolds family. In 2001, the university paid about $8 million of the $20.8 million price out of endowment funds, with Alcoa making up the difference as a donation.
 At first, said Bill Kiniry, the president of Kiniry & Company, a local real estate services firm that represented the university, there was talk of moving the law school or another educational component to the Reynolds campus. But it soon became evident that the wisest course would be to lease the space -- to one company, if possible, but otherwise to multiple tenants. With a vacancy rate in suburban Richmond in 2002 of at least 17 percent, not counting space available for sublet, tenants were hard to land.
 "Everyone hopes to get a Fortune 500 company," Dr. Cooper said, "but our priority was to lease as much space as we could. We wanted to make sure it was fueling our economy, not draining it."
 By the summer, however, Mr. Schewel had passed on his hunch about Philip Morris to state economic development officials, and Mark R. Warner, the governor of Virginia, had made an overture to Michael E. Szymanczyk, the chairman and chief executive of Philip Morris USA, about moving the headquarters to Richmond. By October, both local and state officials were meeting with Philip Morris executives and stressing the advantages of moving to a state with much lower taxes, utility costs and salaries than New York, said Gregory H. Wingfield, the president of the Greater Richmond Partnership, a public-private nonprofit organization that seeks to stimulate business investment.
 The officials also sweetened their entreaties with more than $31 million in incentives, some of which will not be paid out for several more years, Mr. Schewel said. Most of these incentives would not have been allowed, officials said, had Philip Morris not decided to spend $300 million to upgrade its 1.6-million-square-foot manufacturing plant on Commerce Road just south of Richmond, which has 3,500 employees and has the capacity to produce 160 billion cigarettes a year. 
 (Another 3,300 people work in more than 5 million square feet of other Philip Morris space in the Richmond area, including a leaf-processing plant in South Richmond.) 
 A special enterprise zone was also carved out, entitling the company to additional tax incentives, Mr. Wingfield said.
 While the incentives were being negotiated, Philip Morris approached the university about the Reynolds building. Dr. Cooper said that some people raised the question about whether a university should take on a tobacco company as a tenant. "It's something we looked at, as any university would," he said. "In the end, we felt that it was in our best interests to lease to Philip Morris. The product they represent we regard as a matter of choice for the society at large." 
 The asking rent for the building was $16 to $18 a square foot annually, but neither Philip Morris nor the university would say what rent the company is paying.
 And there was one snag. Hankins & Anderson, a company specializing in design and engineering work for American embassies, had leased half of the second floor, and begun construction, according to Michael W. Matthews, the company president. Philip Morris and the university paid the company an undisclosed sum to break the lease.
 As of last week, Philip Morris had moved 200 employees into the Reynolds building, but the company refused a request to tour the property. "The building," said Brendan McCormick, a company spokesman, "is a work in progress."
 A building's inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places does not impose obligations on owners and tenants. But Philip Morris is seeking federal and state tax credits available for the renovation of landmarks and will have to adhere to federal standards for the treatment of historic properties to qualify for them, said Kathleen S. Kilpatrick, the director of the Department of Historic Resources in Virginia. "We've had many, many visits with them," Ms. Kilpatrick said, referring to the tobacco company, "and we're very comfortable with where they are headed."
 State and local officials say that the influx of hundreds of jobs with an average annual salary of $130,000 will give a big boost to an area where the average salary is about $32,000. And not just in monetary terms. "They've had such a long history in Greater Richmond," Mr. Wingfield said. "It's satisfying to have the complete company here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The brass crest of Philip Morris USA was moved from Manhattan to the courtyard of the Richmond, Va., headquarters. (Photo by Dean Hoffmeyer for The New York Times) Chart: "Data Update"Value of construction contracts for commercial and industrial buildings by region. Seasonally adjusted annual rate through October. Graph tracks value of construction contracts (measured in billions) for the region since 2000. NATIONAL IN BILLIONS OCT. '02: $66.2AUG. '03: 56.7SEPT. '03: 51.0OCT. '03: 61.5 (Source by McGraw-Hill Construction/Dodge) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); SMOKING BANS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (86%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (73%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (69%); HISTORY (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); RETAILERS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (64%); FAST FOOD (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (61%); LIBRARIES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SUBURBS (50%) RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (84%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS USA 

TICKER: PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (92%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (84%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (84%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%) SIC2111 CIGARETTES; 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%) PRISTIN, TERRY; BUNSHAFT, GORDON (1909-90) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



620 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: LETTER FROM AFRICA; 
The Lesson of Somalia: Just a Humpty Dumpty Story?

BYLINE:  By Marc Lacey

DATELINE: MBAGATHI, Kenya 

 BODY:
The recent sight of Black Hawk helicopters falling from the sky in Iraq prompts comparisons with Somalia, where the downing of a Black Hawk in 1993 spelled the end of an earlier experiment in stabilizing a divided, violence-racked nation.
 A decade after the American withdrawal from Mogadishu, Somalia remains an anarchic country without a central government, a reminder that the conditions that breed terrorism will still exist even if Iraq is eventually stabilized. 
 A recent report prepared by the United Nations, for example, says that the terrorists who carried out the bombing last year of an Israeli tourist haven on the Kenyan coast used Somalia as a training ground, transit point and escape route.
In a series of recent peace conferences, African nations have been taking increasing responsibility for fixing their own problems. Somalia, too, is conducting peace negotiations, on a college campus here outside Nairobi. 
But that's nothing unusual -- this is the 14th round of talks in the 13 years since Somalia's last government collapsed. The talks, punctuated by the occasional fistfight, underscore just how hard it will be to rebuild economic, legal and social structures that were long ago destroyed.
This fall, two delegates to the peace conference have died in mysterious circumstances, one by gunshot and the other by strangulation. While investigators have yet to tie the murders directly to the talks, they filed charges this week against a former member of the Kenyan Parliament in connection with the shooting.
Historically, Somalia has always been more a collection of widely scattered settlements and clans than a unified country. During the 19th century, the British took one chunk and the Italians another. Upon independence in 1960, Somalia became one, at least on the map. In 1969, after years of instability, an autocratic army general named Mohamed Siad Barre seized power and kept Somalia together from 1969 to 1991, until the cold war ended. 
Today, the clannishness is back in force with at least five different men claiming to be president of various portions of the country and scores of warlords who have divvied up virtually every city block and remote village for themselves. American attention is now focused elsewhere, but the problems that haunted Somalia a decade ago have festered.
One of the supposed presidents is Abdinur Ahmed Darman, a businessman who staged a large rally in Mogadishu in July 2003, during which he declared himself Somalia's head of state. Mr. Darman's business activities are diverse, including the printing of fake Somali shillings, according to the United Nations report.
Before Mr. Darman held his presidential rally, he took care of some key details: he hired a group of militiamen to protect him, a prerequisite for any leadership position in Somalia, and he opened an e-mail account with the addresssomalipresidency@yahoo.com.
Who can argue with that? 
Well, Abdikassim Salad Hassan, for one. He was elected president of Somalia at an earlier peace conference in Djibouti in 2000 that drew thousands of delegates, but was nonetheless boycotted by some top clan leaders.
Mr. Salad has acted as president for the past three years. He has appointed ministers, moved into a mansion in Mogadishu and insisted that he be granted the same level of respect as other presidents during his world travels.
But Mr. Salad has had a difficult tenure. The warlords who really control Somalia ceded him no more than a portion of Mogadishu. In October, as Mr. Salad headed overseas, his own bodyguards refused to let him leave the country unless he paid them back wages.
Several months ago, Mr. Salad's transitional government, which was given authority for three years, reached the end of its term. But with no clear president to replace him, Mr. Salad has hung onto the job.
Then there are what might be called the regional presidents. Puntland, a breakaway region in northeastern Somalia, is ruled by Abdullahi Yusuf. But his vice president, Muhammad Abdi Hashi, recently declared himself president.
Another autonomous region, Somaliland, held elections in April 2003 that gave the presidency to the incumbent, Dahir Rayale Kahin. He won an election Americans can relate to, edging his opponent by just 80 votes of nearly 500,000 cast. The election was decided by Somaliland's Supreme Court.
Dozens of other Somalis who do not currently assert that they are the president would nevertheless like to lay claim to the title by the close of the current peace negotiations. Delegates to the talks are going to decide first on the makeup of the 351-member parliament. The lawmakers, carefully balanced to reflect Somalia's numerous clans, will then decide on the next leader.
Selection Day is a moving target. It was supposed to happen in the summer. It might still occur this fall. If not then, next year is a distinct possibility. Nothing is a sure thing.
The candidates are a colorful lot.
There is Hussein Aidid, a former United States marine who is son of Gen. Mohammed Farah Aidid, whom American troops were seeking during the ill-fated intervention in Mogadishu. He does not appreciate the term warlord that is typically attached to him.
Abdurahman Barre Osman, the younger brother of Somalia's last leader, also has aspirations. It was the collapse of Mr. Siad Barre's rule that gave rise to Somalia's 13 years of chaos. Most considered the former leader a dictator, but his brother does not speak ill of him.
The lone woman in the race is Asha Ahmed Abdalla, who lived in the United States for 30 years and ran the Washington-based Somali Relief Agency. She faces an added challenge. It seems the men who have run Somalia into the ground do not think women are up to the job.
Of course, whoever emerges as the next leader will simply enter a crowded field of would-bes, has-beens, pretenders and outright frauds. Somalia will almost certainly remain divided, a haunting reminder that the campaign against terror will not be over even if calm some day replaces chaos in Iraq.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A gunman passing one of hundreds of battle-ruined houses in Mogadishu, the capital. (Photo by Reuters); Delegates to the Somalia peace talks in Kenya discussing politics at the Kenya College of Communications and Technology, site of the talks. Innumerable delegates are running for president of Somalia, but nothing seems to help. (Photo by Evelyn Hockstein for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COLD WAR (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); HELICOPTERS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); ARMIES (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); LITIGATION (65%); MURDER (56%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) United Nations

PERSON: Marc Lacey

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (91%); NAIROBI, KENYA (77%) SOMALIA (99%); KENYA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFRICA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Somalia; Kenya; Israel; Somalia

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



621 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Hunger Worsens in Many Lands, U.N. Says 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: DAKAR, Senegal, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
The number of hungry people worldwide has swelled in recent years, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, because of war, drought, AIDS and trade barriers, according to a report released Tuesday by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.
 The report, "The State of Food Insecurity in the World 2003," found that after falling steadily during the first half of the 1990's, hunger grew in the latter half of the decade. 
 Between 1999 and 2001, the report found, more than 840 million people, or one in seven, went hungry. Most alarming of all, between 1995 and 2001, the number of malnourished people across the developing world grew by an average of 4.5 million a year. 
The agency said the findings would make it impossible to meet its goal of reducing world hunger by half by 2015. That goal, set first in 1996, was cited as a top priority by the United Nations Millennium Summit meeting in September 2000.
The rise in hunger came even though the world produced ample food, and in 22 countries, including Bangladesh, Haiti and Mozambique, the number of undernourished declined in the second half of the decade. "Bluntly stated, the problem is not so much a lack of food as a lack of political will," the report declared.
The agency called on rich countries to invest in improving agricultural productivity, conserving natural resources and expanding access to global markets for farmers in the developing world. Citizens of countries that spend significant portions of their limited export earnings to import food are most likely to go hungry, the report concluded. By contrast, countries that succeeded in reducing hunger were those where agricultural production rose, population growth slowed and H.I.V. rates were relatively low.
Antipoverty advocates said the report underscored the need to tackle the underlying causes of hunger. 
"We tend to think of the solution as, 'Well, they need seeds and tools,' " Adrienne Smith, a spokeswoman for Oxfam America, which is based in Boston, said in a telephone interview. "Unfortunately there are structural issues that conspire to keep people from thriving."
Throughout the 1990's, the report found, only 19 countries, including China, reduced hunger among their peoples. In another 17 countries, where hunger had begun falling in the early 1990's, the number of malnourished people climbed in the latter half of the decade; this group included densely populated nations like India and Nigeria. 
"Unless significant gains are made in large countries where progress has stalled, it will be difficult to reverse this negative trend," the report said.
Not surprisingly, the figures from countries at war, like Liberia and Congo, were the most startling. Agricultural production has come to a standstill in those countries, a great many of them in West and Central Africa. The vast and fertile Congo topped the chart, with 75 percent of its population estimated to be undernourished in the 1999-2001 period. In Afghanistan and Burundi, 70 percent of the people were undernourished.
In southern Africa, the report went on, the AIDS pandemic has cut a devastating swath through what otherwise would be its most productive citizens. The disease has robbed families of their breadwinners and forced some families to abandon their fields. 
Hunger in turn has exacerbated the AIDS crisis, driving rural people to the cities, where infection rates are high, and forcing women and children to trade sex for money and food, the report found.
Pointing to the success of some countries, the report singled out efforts by Brazil to tackle the roots of hunger: poverty, unemployment and land distribution.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A refugee child caught in Uganda's civil war. Hunger is worsening worldwide, the United Nations reported yesterday, often spread by war. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) Chart/Map: "A Global View of Hunger"Findings on hunger from a 2003 report by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. Map of the world shows: Iraq and Afghanistan -- War has fueled hunger and Afghanistan has been hit by years of drought. Congo -- Between 1999 and 2001, 75 percent of the population was undernourished. Ethiopia -- A 1995-2001 survey found that 47 percent of children under five were underweight. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MALNUTRITION (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (86%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRENDS (78%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FAMINE (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (65%); INTERVIEWS (61%) Food; Famine; Weather ; International Trade and World Market; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Food; Agriculture; Drought

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (93%) United Nations; United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization

PERSON: Somini Sengupta

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DAKAR, SENEGAL (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) AFRICA (94%); ETHIOPIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); HAITI (79%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UGANDA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%) Ethiopia; Congo (Formerly Zaire); Africa

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



622 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Rescinds Part of Loan Guarantees to Israel 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, in a rare rebuke to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, has decided to rescind $289.5 million in American-backed loan guarantees for Israel as a punishment for illegal construction activities in the West Bank, the Israeli Embassy announced Tuesday.
 An embassy spokesman in Washington said Israel had accepted the reality that some of its construction activities in the West Bank were inconsistent with American policies and had agreed to deduct the $289.5 million from the $3 billion in loan guarantees that was due to Israel this year. 
 Although it was the United States that took the action on the loan guarantees, the announcement was pointedly made by Israel. After the Israeli statement, a White House spokesman said the Bush administration welcomed what Israel had done, and expressed gratitude for its acknowledgment that its activities in the West Bank were inconsistent with American policy. 
Further, the White House maintained, Israel's agreement on the guarantees represented the "close and continuous cooperation" between the countries -- a statement reflecting the extreme political sensitivity in Washington to taking any action that might upset American supporters of Israel. 
The agreement on the figure was worked out during the day at a meeting between top Bush administration officials and Dov Weisglass, chief of staff for Mr. Sharon.
Bush administration officials have said that the decision on cutting the loan guarantees was made in principle some months ago, but that an exact number had been held up because of disagreements with Israel over how much of the activity in the West Bank was subject to American review as required by law.
As enacted by Congress, aid to Israel is governed by a requirement that the loan guarantees must be reduced by whatever amount Israel spends on settlements in the West Bank, where an American-backed peace plan envisions a Palestinian state to exist eventually.
Earlier this year, Congress authorized a total of $9 billion in loan guarantees over three years. The $289.5 million would be deducted from the first round.
American and Israeli officials note that the amount of money Israel would be sacrificing is actually quite small. Without the guarantees, Israel would probably be able to borrow the money at a somewhat higher interest rate, costing it somewhere in the range of a few million to several million dollars.
The decision on the loan guarantees ends a period of uncertainty and contention between American and Israeli officials, but the issues at the center of the disagreement are certain to remain.
There was no specification, for instance, of exactly what activities the latest action was intended to punish.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Wednesday about the decision by the Bush administration to cancel $289.5 million in American-backed loan guarantees for Israel referred incorrectly to West Bank construction activities that prompted it. Although federal law requires revoking loan guarantees to penalize certain construction deemed contrary to American policy, the United States does not define the activities as illegal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) United States International Relations; Foreign Aid

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%) Israel; West Bank

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



623 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Preparing for the Feast? Read This First 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"About a Bird," by Patrick Martins (Op-Ed, Nov. 24), casts a shadow on the safety of eating industrial-farm-raised turkeys. 
But his recommendation of "traceability" when purchasing our Thanksgiving birds names one of the greatest American traditions: consumer power.
 When it comes to consuming, whether eating or shopping -- especially beginning at Thanksgiving -- we're superstars. 
 It's simple. We are what we eat. As long as we refuse to see the link between our food and our well-being, we'll continue to swallow the empty calories of free trade, the mold of deteriorating local economies and the tasteless products of consolidated food markets. Buying local foods encourages greater accountability, the best way to ensure our health.

VANESSA KITTELL
Philadelphia, Nov. 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TURKEY PRODUCTION (90%); POULTRY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Poultry; Turkeys; Thanksgiving Day

PERSON: Vanessa Kittell

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



624 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Weighing Transit Possibilities, New Study Follows the Money 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
The wish list of mass transit projects that local, state and federal politicians have drawn up for the city is long and ambitious: the Second Avenue subway, Long Island Rail Road service to the East Side, the No. 7 subway extension, a relocated Pennsylvania Station, a transit hub for Lower Manhattan, and the list goes on. 
 More important, the projects are expensive, with the potential of costing more than $50 billion. Although everyone has a favorite, money is limited, and some will probably lose out. So how to choose? 
 One of the city's leading business groups, the Partnership for New York City, has weighed in on the question with a study that evaluates seven of the proposals on whether they pay off economically.
Among the report's conclusions, already generating controversy: the price tag for the Second Avenue subway exceeds its economic development benefits by nearly $2.7 billion, largely because it would take 17 years to build.
The report, conducted for the partnership by the Boston Consulting Group and the Urban Transportation Research Center at the City University of New York, assesses economic development by incorporating real estate development, the increase in property values, jobs and income and sales and tourism. The subway project would produce $12.6 billion in benefits, but it would cost $15.3 billion, it says.
A proposed passenger rail tunnel under the Hudson, connecting New Jersey and Midtown, and an extension of the PATH system to Newark Liberty International Airport would also yield little economic benefit for the city, according to the report, although it does not consider the benefits for New Jersey. 
Some of the study's clear winners include the transit hub for Lower Manhattan, the extension of the No. 7 subway line and the relocation of Penn Station.
Both Gov. George E. Pataki and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority have been emphasizing the Second Avenue subway and the East Side Access project, which would connect the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal.
"The M.T.A.'s committed to a full build of the Second Avenue subway," William Wheeler, director of special project development and planning for the authority, said yesterday.
He pointed out that the project, along with the East Side Access proposal, had won support under the criteria set up by the Federal Transit Administration. The criteria include the number of customers benefited and the reduction in crowding.
The Second Avenue subway also has a powerful advocate in the speaker of the State Assembly, Sheldon Silver, who represents the Lower East Side. The report fails to fully recognize the project's economic benefits, Mr. Silver said. This includes its impact on Lower Manhattan, sparing commuters from an overcrowded Lexington Avenue line.
Decisions about transportation infrastructure, however, are too often politically based, said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the partnership.
"It's not thinking about how investment should be designed to grow the economy and to open up the next generation of economic activity," she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); AIRPORTS (67%) Transit Systems; Subways; Building (Construction); Finances; Transit Systems; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

COMPANY: BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Partnership for New York City; Metropolitan Transportation Authority

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Michael Luo; William Wheeler; Sheldon (Speaker) Silver

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



625 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Gephardt Attacks Bush and Rivals on Affirmative Action 

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS; David M. Halbfinger contributed reporting for this article from Iowa.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
Representative Richard A. Gephardt offered a vigorous defense of affirmative action on Tuesday before a crowd of cheering black ministers here, and criticized President Bush and three Democratic rivals as questioning the value of such programs.
 Mr. Gephardt, a Democratic presidential hopeful from Missouri, spoke as he presented a plan to promote economic development in black and Hispanic communities. He said opposition to affirmative action was unforgivable and accused Mr. Bush of trying to "turn the clock back" by opposing the approach that the University of Michigan used to diversify its student body. 
 This year, the Supreme Court upheld Michigan's consideration of race for admission to its law school, but invalidated its affirmative action program for admission to its undergraduate college. 
Trying to draw sharp dividing lines on an issue of importance to an important Democratic voting bloc, Mr. Gephardt also condemned several rivals as criticizing affirmative action in the 1990's. Those rivals are Senators Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut and John Kerry of Massachusetts and former Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont. Each raised questions about race-based affirmative action in the past, but on Tuesday all accused Mr. Gephardt of misinterpreting their words and said they remained strong supporters of such programs.
"Affirmative action reaches into every corner of our lives, and it should," Mr. Gephardt told the black ministers and congregation members at Corinthian Baptist Church. "When others in this campaign for president were questioning race-based affirmative action, I was leading the effort in Congress against Republican attempts to eliminate affirmative action, and we won. No one group among us has a monopoly on aspirations. And no one has the right to block the way of another on the staircase that we climb."
The speech was Mr. Gephardt's first effort to outline a broad economic plan to address the concerns of African-Americans, a mainstay of the Democratic base and a crucial voting bloc in states like South Carolina and Michigan, which hold early presidential primaries next year.
In his speech, Mr. Gephardt promised to expand the percentage of federal contracts directed to minority businesses to a goal of 10 percent from 5 percent. He promised to increase federal financing for small-business loans by $1 billion and to provide tax credits for businesses investing in low-income areas.
The audience included 30 Baptist ministers, several judges and scores of churchgoers, who repeatedly interrupted his speech shouting, "That's right!"
Mr. Gephardt's rivals quickly criticized his remarks. 
Mr. Kerry, who called affirmative action "a limited and divisive program" in 1992, said on Tuesday that he had always fought for civil rights and would continue to do so. In his speech in 1992, Mr. Kerry also talked about the "positive side" of affirmative action, which he said had opened doors for racial minorities, women and the disabled. 
"Dick Gephardt's a good person," Mr. Kerry said on Tuesday, "and I don't have any personal issue with him at all, but I take no second seat, no back seat, to anybody in this country in my fights for civil rights, equal protection under the law and full opportunity for every American, period."
A spokesman for Dr. Dean, Jay Carson, acknowledged that Dr. Dean said in 1995 that preferences should be based on class, not race, but would not discuss what the former governor meant. 
"Governor Dean," Mr. Carson said, "has been a steadfast supporter of affirmative action and still believes that it's necessary today." 
A spokesman for Mr. Lieberman, Jano Cabrera, said Mr. Gephardt had also criticized affirmative action, an accusation that Mr. Gephardt's advisers denied. 
"With all due respect, Congressman Gephardt is chucking stones in a glass house," Mr. Cabrera said. "In the mid-90's, Lieberman, Kerry, Dean and Gephardt all raised questions about affirmative action."
A spokesman for Mr. Gephardt, Erik Smith, acknowledged that in 1995 Mr. Gephardt said, "We need to reform affirmative action." But Mr. Smith said Mr. Gephardt was referring to changes required by a Supreme Court decision in 1995 that set strict limits on federal affirmative action programs, ruling that such programs must be narrowly tailored to meet a compelling government interest.
As Mr. Gephardt proposed his economic plan, Mr. Kerry campaigning in Iowa, called for a $20 billion-a-year education trust fund to ensure that the federal government paid its full share of the costs for the education measures it requires of the states.
"Today," Mr. Kerry told high school seniors in Council Bluffs, "education spending is set by Congress every year. That means it is vulnerable to presidents like George W. Bush who send new mandates to the states, but don't provide the necessary funding." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); RELIGION (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (60%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (60%); APPEALS (55%) Blacks; Affirmative Action; United States Economy; Hispanic-Americans; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%) University of Michigan

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) Rachel L Swarns; Richard A (Rep) Gephardt; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



626 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Muhammad May Face Additional Trials 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: VIRGINIA BEACH, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
The trials of John A. Muhammad, the convicted mastermind of the Washington-area sniper killings, may be far from over. 
 Mr. Muhammad, sentenced to death on Monday for the murder of Dean H. Meyers in Manassas, has also been charged with murder in Alabama, Louisiana, Maryland and other parts of Virginia. 
 The authorities in all of those places have expressed interest in prosecuting Mr. Muhammad. If they press their cases, they will need the permission of Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia. 
Ellen Qualls, a spokeswoman for Mr. Warner, said his chief counsel had just begun studying the issue. But, she said, a final decision will probably not be made until after Mr. Muhammad's sentence is finalized at a hearing on Feb. 12.
One possibility widely mentioned by officials in Virginia would be to flip cases between the Virginia counties that prosecuted the first two sniper cases, Prince William and Fairfax. Prince William prosecuted Mr. Muhammad, while Fairfax authorities are now trying the man accused of being his co-conspirator, Lee Malvo. 
"I expect we'll get Muhammad and Prince William will get Malvo," Robert F. Horan Jr., the commonwealth's attorney for Fairfax County, said on Tuesday. 
If Governor Warner agrees to that plan, it may not leave enough time for other states to prosecute the pair. Virginia has been known to execute death row inmates less than four years after they are sentenced. 
There is also the question of why other communities would want to prosecute Mr. Muhammad now that he has been sentenced to death. Capital cases are the most expensive and time-consuming trials. Other states usually initiate secondary prosecutions only when they are concerned that a death sentence will be overturned on appeal, but Virginia's Supreme Court rarely does that.
"Why do you need to kill a person twice?" asked Earl C. Dudley Jr., a professor at the University of Virginia law school. 
"One word," replied John W. Sinquefield, the first assistant district attorney for Baton Rouge, La., where Mr. Muhammad and Mr. Malvo are accused of killing a woman during a robbery last fall. "Insurance."
Douglas F. Gansler, the state's attorney for Montgomery County, Md., said he wanted to prosecute Mr. Muhammad and Mr. Malvo because six killings occurred in Montgomery, more than in any other jurisdiction. The county suffered greater economic and psychological damage than other places, he said.
"We have six victims in Montgomery County, six victims who have not had their day in court," Mr. Gansler said. "We were disproportionately affected, and this community has not had a healing process."
In all, Mr. Muhammad and Mr. Malvo are suspected in at least 21 shootings, 15 fatal, in six states and the District of Columbia. They have not been charged in all those shootings, however. 
More immediately, Mr. Muhammad's defense team must begin focusing on his appeals, which will begin with the State Supreme Court some time next year. 
His lawyers have already said they are likely to challenge Judge LeRoy F. Millette Jr.'s instructions to the jury, which included a broad interpretation of the state's so-called triggerman rule. 
The defense argued that under that rule, the prosecution should have been required to show that Mr. Muhammad fired the shot that killed Mr. Meyers. The judge disagreed, and no such evidence was presented. 
The defense could also challenge Judge Millette's decisions allowing the prosecution to introduce hysterical 911 calls, grisly autopsy photographs and tearful testimony from witnesses and victims' relatives. 
Mr. Muhammad's lawyers argued that the volume of that evidence was excessive and that much of it was intended solely to inflame the jury. 
But potentially the most fruitful avenue for appeal, many experts say, will be the untested antiterrorism law that was used to prosecute Mr. Muhammad. 
The law, passed after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, authorizes the death penalty for premeditated killings committed in an act of terrorism. Terrorism is defined as actions intended to intimidate civilians or influence governments. 
Some defense lawyers say the law was written with international groups like Al Qaeda in mind and that the prosecution overreached in applying it to Mr. Muhammad.
"If this stands, one might ask whether it can next be applied to a guy who robs a few convenience stores and terrorizes a neighborhood," said John B. Boatwright III, the capital defender for central Virginia. "The law has been interpreted so broadly that a reasonable person can't discern its limits."
But Virginia prosecutors contend the law was properly applied to Mr. Muhammad and Mr. Malvo because they were spreading terror in an effort to extort $10 million from local governments. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (91%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); APPEALS (86%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); ROBBERY (50%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Serial Murders

PERSON: MARK WARNER (79%); PRINCE WILLIAM (72%) James Dao; John Lee Malvo; John Allen Muhammad; Dean H Meyers; Mark R (Gov) Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (58%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Washington (DC); Virginia; Maryland; Alabama

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



627 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger Aide Offers First List of Proposed Budget Cuts 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's finance director asked lawmakers on Tuesday to approve a stark economic bailout package that includes sharp cuts in programs for the poor and the disabled while borrowing large amounts of money from transportation projects to cover other spending.
 The finance director, Donna Arduin, presented the Legislature with $3.8 billion in suggested cuts over the next year, the first specific reductions that Mr. Schwarzenegger has proposed since becoming governor on Nov. 17. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, had promised in his recall campaign to make ferreting out waste in government spending a priority.
An analysis of the 38 proposed cuts by the California Budget Project, a research group in Sacramento, showed that 42 percent of the reduced spending would be from health and social services and nearly 25 percent from transportation.
The suggested cuts include eliminating nonmedical therapy for the mentally disabled like music, art and equestrian programs. Mr. Schwarzenegger would also limit immigrants' enrollment in programs like an AIDS drug-assistance program. 
The governor would also eliminate financing for programs by the state university system to reach into poor communities and reduce rates paid to doctors who treat patients in Medi-Cal, the state's form of Medicaid.
"No one," Ms. Arduin said, "is under any illusions about how difficult this task will be in such a short time frame. But the alternative, failing to take action, is not an option and would only serve to put the state's fiscal future at an even greater level of risk."
Many Democrats, who control both houses of the Legislature, said the cuts were unimaginative and too severe. Some conservative Republicans, including State Senator Tom McClintock of Thousand Oaks, who placed third in the recall election to replace Gov. Gray Davis, said they did not go far enough.
"These are the same basic cuts that were considered last year," Assemblywoman Jenny Oropeza, the Carson Democrat who is chairwoman of the Assembly Budget Committee, told reporters after Ms. Arduin addressed her committee. "I'm looking for the waste fraud and abuse that they were going to find when they opened the books."
Mr. McClintock objected to a proposal that would divert hundreds of millions of dollars in transportation spending to the general fund.
"Those aren't cuts," he said. "They are draining the highway account to maintain a level of spending that should have been reduced long ago. It needs to be reduced now. That was what the election of Oct. 7 was all about -- cut, cut, cut, cut."
Senator James L. Brulte of Rancho Cucamonga, the Republican leader in the Senate and an ally of Mr. Schwarzenegger, said that he also took issue with some of the proposals and that he did not expect the Legislature to approve the entire list. 
Even so, Mr. Brulte said, most of the complaining was from Democrats and special interest groups who favored raising taxes.
"The tax-increase candidate didn't get 35 percent of the vote in the last election," Mr. Brulte said, referring to Lt. Gov. Cruz M. Bustamante, a Democrat, who placed second in the recall election. "You have to make spending reductions. Period."
The budget cuts presented by Ms. Arduin were part of a larger bailout proposal that includes $15 billion in borrowing and a constitutional spending limit for future budgets. 
An adviser to Ms. Arduin, John A. Bohn, a former president and chief executive officer of Moody's Investors Service, said state officials needed to move quickly to restore investors' confidence. The Legislature is scheduled to begin debating the budget proposals next week.
"The real issue," Mr. Bohn said, "is to convey a sense to the market that the state means business and that part of that business is the willingness to discipline itself so that it doesn't overspend." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); MEDICAID (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); AIDS & HIV (69%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (69%); ANTIVIRALS (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (92%); ANDRE CARSON (58%) Dean E Murphy; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger; Donna Arduin

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) California

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



628 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: A FINAL PUSH IN CONGRESS: RETIREE CARE; 
Some Experts Foresee Revolt by Elderly Over Drug Benefits

BYLINE:  By GARDINER HARRIS

 BODY:
With good intentions and bright advisers, Congress overwhelming passed legislation in 1988 that would insure the elderly against catastrophic medical expenses, including crushing drug costs.
 But affluent retirees quickly concluded that they were being asked to pay for something that their employers already gave. They rose in revolt. Congress repealed the legislation within months. 
 Some experts envision a similar fate for the Medicare drug benefit that the Senate sent to President Bush's desk yesterday. The legislation provides billions in tax incentives to discourage employers from dropping the drug benefits that they provide to about 11 million retirees. But if, as pessimists expect, many large employers calculate that the incentives are not enough, millions more retirees than Congress expects will watch as their relatively rich private drug benefits are replaced by the government's more meager package.
They will be forced to trade in a Cadillac for a Chevrolet, and that is a recipe for another revolt by the elderly, some experts say.
In 1988, Representative Dan Rostenkowski, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, had to dash through a Chicago gas station to avoid a mob of frail constituents chanting "coward."
"There's a real chance of a replay of 1988," said Paul Ginsburg, president of the Center for Studying Health System Change. "It's a real big risk that backers of this legislation are taking."
Experts fiercely debate whether employers will react to the legislation by dropping retiree care. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that 23 percent of employees -- or 2.7 million people -- who are now receiving drug benefits from their employers will lose those benefits after the Medicare drug program is instituted in 2006. 
Richard Evans, an analyst with Bernstein Research, said that most employers would view the Medicare legislation as a heaven-sent opportunity to reduce expenses. The legislation offers employers tax incentives to continue paying for retiree health expenses that amount to 28 percent of drug costs, from $250 to $5,000 a retiree a year. But Mr. Evans estimated that employers would save, on average, $1,000 a retiree if they refused the tax incentives and dropped coverage.
"So the companies are going to put them into the Medicare program," Mr. Evans said. "That means a lot of retirees with great drug coverage now will get worse coverage in the future."
Indeed, much of the reason for providing health coverage to retirees was the absence of a drug benefit in the Medicare program, said Joe Martingale of Watson Wyatt Worldwide, an employee benefits consulting firm. "Now that Medicare has less of a gap with prescription drugs, it's a fair question to ask if employers rethink what kind of plan makes sense now," Mr. Martingale said.
Nonetheless, he said that "a stampede toward the door is unlikely," and employer groups that are supportive of the Medicare legislation say they will not suddenly abandon their retirees.
"This notion that millions of retirees will suddenly lose their drug coverage because of this legislation is ridiculous," said Edward J. Kaleta, chairman of the Employers' Coalition on Medicare, a group of about 60 companies that have been lobbying for a Medicare drug benefit.
"Right now, these employers are offering retiree drug coverage and they're getting nothing for it," Mr. Kaleta said. "Under this bill, they're at least getting some relief."
Employers have been scaling back retiree health benefits for years. According to a study released in July, the percentage of younger Medicare beneficiaries with employer-sponsored drug coverage dropped to 39 percent in 2000 -- the last year for which figures were available -- from 46 percent in 1996.
Even if employers drop their retiree coverage, many will probably wait a year or two after 2006, experts say. That means that those injured by the legislation will not immediately know they are hurt and will not be able to mobilize against it, experts say.
By contrast, the well-to-do elderly knew very soon after the 1988 legislation passed that they were being required to pay substantial premiums for a benefit that, because they had employer-sponsored coverage anyway, they were unlikely to use.
"In 1988, it was clear from the get-go who was getting hurt," said Jonathan Gruber, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Finally, this year's legislation is voluntary, and that should mute much of the criticism that was heaped on the 1988 bill, which required the elderly to participate and pay into the program, experts said. 
Still, some advocates insisted that most elderly people would reject the Medicare benefit regardless of employer actions because of the legislation's patchwork structure -- covering about 75 percent of drug expenses up to $2,250 a year and then nothing until $5,100 is spent, after which the government covers 95 percent of expenses.
"The more seniors learn about this benefit, the more unhappy they become," said Ron Pollack, executive director for Families USA, a health care consumer group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicare; Law and Legislation; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: TOWERS WATSON & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

TICKER: TW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Gardiner Harris; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003 



629 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
The Founding Fathers: For All Their Faults, Gore Vidal Loves Them Still

BYLINE:  By RICHARD EDER 

 BODY:
INVENTING A NATION
Washington, Adams, Jefferson
By Gore Vidal
198 pages. Yale University Press. $22.
 He has brought a novelist's gifts to history -- particularly in his fictional accounts of Aaron Burr and Lincoln -- and a graceful, wicked stiletto to the polemical public essay. Now, in "Inventing a Nation," Gore Vidal swirls these talents together for a brief, idiosyncratic (of course) conversation about three American founders: Washington, Jefferson and Adams. 
 "Conversation" is my term. As history, "Inventing a Nation" is likely to annoy the historian; it is not a novel, and the polemics come as half-choked asides, almost as if Mr. Vidal had been trying to hold back on them. Frequently, fortunately, he fails. He rambles with one founder, then with another, and then it's back to the first. He circles, crosses his own footsteps and comes upon his reader, attempting to follow and headed the other way.
Conversation then, or what the French call a "causerie, " which implies sparkling and point. (Mr. Vidal is unusually Gallic among our Anglo-influenced essayists.) He is the life of the party for readers willing to bring their own: one or two of his dishes are seasoned oddly, and here and there amid the icon-smashing a few perfectly good plates are destroyed.
Mr. Vidal covers roughly the period from the making of the Constitution through Washington's two presidencies and Adams's single fretful one, to Jefferson's first great presidential move: the fire-sale acquisition in 1803 of a huge expanse of western territory -- the Louisiana Purchase -- from Napoleon, who was too busy in Europe to think seriously of an American empire.
He portrays a time when American statesmen -- the three of the title, but also Franklin, Madison and others -- were grappling with their visions, conflicting or converging, of what kind of republic we were to become. They ranged from Hamilton's centralizing economic oligarchy, to Adams's waverings between authority and equality, to Jefferson's fuzzy, sometimes hugely contradictory but nonetheless steady impulse toward popular democracy. Though at the time "democracy" was a term to be wary of, even for Jefferson.
"Fuzzy" could apply to all of them, apart from the assured Hamilton, whom Vidal clearly detests as foreshadowing the future sway of big capital. (With Washington enigmatic or patient might suit better.) It was not just an intellectuals' debate; it was the struggling of life with its interests and passions, large and small, to define itself.
Mr. Vidal can turn a heavy notion light and stinging. As vice president, Adams finds himself negotiating in the Senate to limit the molasses tax on behalf of his fellow New Englanders, and to uphold the tax on sugarloaf against its Pennsylvania producers. "Then came salt," the author writes. "The days of discussing Hume and Montesquieu were over."
To Mr. Vidal history is alive and for use. His approach here is not so much to write it as to wield it. He does so for a double purpose: one is to make holes in the present, the other is the sheer joy and elegance of the attack.
Irascibly and gleefully of the left, he slips in reflections on the past that point sharply to today. Sometimes the pointing is arguable; sometimes it is shivery. 
He recalls Madison's and Jefferson's early theoretical notion of a state's right of nullification -- in this case, of President John Adams's oppressive Alien and Sedition Acts. (Such a right, no longer theoretical, would later detonate the Civil War.) Mr. Vidal, in view of the current right-wing hold on presidency and Congress, hints at reviving such a remedy should the courts allow further slippage of our own civil rights. Choose between far-fetched and far-seeing.
More spacious and moving are two quotations that raise prophetic questions in a time of corporate scandal and the doctrine of military pre-emption.
One is from Benjamin Franklin, a luminous man freely contemplating darkness. The government set up by the Constitution, he warned, "is likely to be well administered for a Course of Years and can only end in Despotism as other Forms have done before it, when the People shall become so corrupted as to need Despotic Government, being incapable of any other."
And John Adams writes Abigail to suggest that the arrogance shown by the British in seizing a couple of hundred American merchantmen is a trait to be found in his own countrymen. The United States, he declares, is Britain's "very image and superscription . . . as true a gamecock as she and, I warrant you, shall become as great a scourge to mankind." 
Mr. Vidal has a battered affection for the three figures he chose for his book, and this despite flaws he does not veil: Adams's authoritarian streak and wistful monarchical yearnings; Washington's land deals; Jefferson's failure to fight the holding of slaves, except verbally, or to free his own. What redeems them is a particularized humanity in each, a genuine struggle, not error-free, to figure out and deal with the real challenges arising in a new society that no previous patterns will fit.
Certainly one of the most attractive aspects of Mr. Vidal's book is his novelist's skill with details that enliven and portray. There's Jefferson's delight in French civilization (for him, freedom and no freedom fries). "When our king goes out," he writes from Paris, "they fall down and kiss the earth. . . . Then they go to kissing one another. This is the truest wisdom. They have as much happiness in one year as one Englishman in 10."
At the end, still witty but suddenly moving, the author reflects, "In my youth, I was fascinated by dramatic contradictions in character; in age I am far more interested in those consistencies wherein lie greatness like Washington's throughout his career, or overwrought conscience like Adams's, throughout his."
A harder sell, perhaps -- one that he points to insistently today -- is his argument for Jefferson's consistency: his nullification proposal, sacrificing the union he'd worked to expand for the principle of individual rights. But we can't help thinking of slavery and wondering whether, just at that moment of course, and in his prophetic flush, Mr. Vidal does.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gore Vidal (Photo by $; Timothy Greenfield-Saunders) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (78%); HISTORY (73%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: EDER, RICHARD; VIDAL, GORE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (73%)

TITLE: INVENTING A NATION: WASHINGTON, ADAMS, JEFFERSON (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



630 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: For Right Price, a Bit of the Moon, Perhaps 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
The desk set -- a few pieces of plastic amateurishly glued together -- is battered and scratched. The pen was snapped off years ago. On the left side is a yellowing blob of epoxy in the shape of a rock. On the right is a small plaque: "Presented to Joe Healy from his friends at LRL."
 Cost: at least $50,000, the minimum bid in an Internet auction now under way. 
 This plain-looking piece -- a retirement gift to Mr. Healy, an engineer at NASA's Lunar Receiving Laboratory who worked on the Apollo missions and who died a decade ago -- is believed to contain some of the rarest material on Earth: fragments of the Moon.
The fragments are small -- specks really, embedded within the epoxy blob, smaller than the air bubbles and harder to spot -- but they nonetheless appear to be the largest sample of Apollo moon rock ever to be offered for sale, at least legally.
"It's got magic attached to it, don't you think?" said Mr. Healy's daughter, Margaret Davis of The Dalles, Ore., who is putting the piece up for sale. "It's really from the Moon."
NASA, however, will not vouch for it. The space agency examined it under a microscope in 1999. In a statement released when the desk set was returned to Mrs. Davis, NASA said that "the particles submitted for testing did not exhibit any characteristic features commonly associated with lunar soil" and that more extensive testing could not be conducted without destroying it.
As of yesterday evening, no one had bid on the item. The auction continues until 9 p.m. on Dec. 4. 
"The serious bidders usually don't show their hand until the last day," said Bruce Mauro, acquisitions manager for Leland's Inc., an auction house in Seaford, N.Y., that is handling the auction. "They all lay back in the weeds. If there's going to be a bid on it, it'll probably be then."
(The auction can be viewed at www.lelands.com by clicking on the "Americana" link and then the "Space" link.)
In the three decades since the Apollo landings, NASA has jealously guarded most of the 843 pounds of Moon rock collected by the astronauts. The space agency considers them "national treasures," property of the federal government, although a few pieces were given as gifts to foreign governments. 
In September, the United States returned to Honduras a Moon rock that President Richard M. Nixon gave the country in 1973, but that was later stolen and ended up with a dealer in Miami. Last year, three interns at NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston stole a safe containing Moon rocks valued at $2.5 million to $7 million. The three pleaded guilty to the theft, and a conspirator, who offered the rocks for sale on the Internet, was convicted at a trial in June.
For legal lunar material, collectors have had to content themselves with rocks brought back by unmanned Soviet probes or with pieces of clothing and equipment stained with Moon dust. Three Russian Moon pebbles sold for $442,500 at Sotheby's in 1993.
When Mr. Healy retired in 1970, his colleagues pulled fragments from a box of Apollo 11 rocks and mixed them into a blob of epoxy shaped like the first Moon rock to be put on public display. The desk set also includes two pieces of Mylar from the Apollo 11 and 12 lunar landers.
Soon thereafter, NASA administrators sent out memorandums telling employees not to give away lunar samples, but no one asked Mr. Healy to return his desk set. He often took it to schools to show it to children.
"He kept it in a shoebox," his daughter, Mrs. Davis, said, "and when he didn't have it out showing it to someone, he had it under his bed."
Over the years, the epoxy, once clear, has turned amber, and Mr. Healy's wife, Cynthia, snapped the pen off one day when she needed something to write with.
With the death of the Healys, the desk set passed to Mrs. Davis, who kept it in a safe-deposit box. She planned to donate it to a local museum but wanted to know its value, for tax deduction purposes. In 1999 she sent it to John Reznikoff, a dealer in Connecticut, who told her it could be worth $1 million.
"Then all the shenanigans followed with NASA," Mr. Reznikoff said. "We had a hard time with NASA. They made a big deal out of it." 
Mr. Reznikoff said that when he called NASA with questions about the desk set, the agency seized it. NASA said the piece was voluntarily turned over for examination. At that time, Douglas Blanchard, a NASA spokesman said, "We have a very careful inventory of all the lunar samples that have ever been in our control. No one has ever been authorized to remove samples from a mission, and so, somewhere in the line there is a felony."
In any event, after an inconclusive look, NASA returned the desk set after holding it a few months.
Gavin P. Lentz, a Philadelphia lawyer representing Mrs. Davis, said he wrote NASA a year and a half ago telling it of Mrs. Davis's plans to sell the desk set. He said NASA had not replied with any objection.
With the national economy reviving, Mr. Reznikoff and Mrs. Davis decided that now was a good time to sell the desk set and enlisted Leland's. 
Mrs. Davis, a social worker, said the sale would help pay debts from her children's education.
"I can't afford to sit on that sort of asset," she said. "It would be lovely to be able to keep it, but I don't think I can. I don't think I could sit it out on the coffee table and exhibit it. I would be afraid someone would take it."
And, she asked, "how do I divide it down the road between four children?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: This desk set, which is said to contain Moon rock, is for sale in an Internet auction. Its owner set a minimum bid of $50,000. (Photo by Leland's Inc.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (76%); SPACE INDUSTRY (70%); US PRESIDENTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) EARTH'S MOON (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); HONDURAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



631 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Pass the Sour Grapes, Not Sweet Potatoes 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Congress broke for Thanksgiving with a final burst of partisan recriminations over the conduct of a session that produced Medicare changes, tax cuts and hard feelings certain to spill over into the 2004 campaign.
 Republican leaders, who labeled Democrats obstructionists, celebrated the addition of prescription drug coverage to the Medicare insurance program as just the latest in a string of accomplishments that could improve their appeal with a range of voters. 
 Democrats asserted that Republicans, in their drive to prove they could deliver when controlling both the House and the Senate, badly bent Congressional rules and resorted to "brass knuckles" to force through flawed legislation that will backfire with the public.
Independent analysts said that adoption of the Medicare legislation, at least in the short term, could be enough to rate the year a Republican success even though the leadership failed to advance a broad energy proposal sought by President Bush and could not finish the annual spending work on time. Congress will return for a dayor two next month to try to unsnarl the money mess. 
But the session could ultimately be most notable for surly clashes between the parties, and tactics employed by Republicans that might have reached their lowest point with an almost three-hour predawn vote in the House on Saturday to pass the Medicare plan.
"If you were to judge this Congress by how it operated, the process by which it operated, and the quality of the legislative product, I would give it a D minus," said Thomas Mann, a longtime student of Congress at the Brookings Institution. "This session of Congress may be remembered more for the death of regular order than for anything else." 
Republicans dismiss suggestions that they ran roughshod over the minority in a year in which they also enacted a $350 billion tax cut and state aid package, imposed a ban on an abortion procedure and provided money for the operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, said, "Our efforts have improved the security of America and the lives of all Americans in significant ways."
Republicans believe they helped themselves with conservatives by finally enacting the ban on the procedure that critics call partial-birth abortion. They sought to show their compassionate side with more money to fight AIDS overseas. They sold the tax cuts as a boon to the middle class despite criticism that the cuts were weighted toward the affluent. The Medicare plan was an effort to transform how the party is viewed by older voters.
"After seven years of working on this, we know that seniors, individual seniors, are going to have access to better health care after today than they did at the beginning of the year," the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, said after the Medicare initiative was adopted on Tuesday. 
Democrats do not see it quite that way. The Senate minority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, lashed out at what he called "extraordinarily inept" handling of the spending bills by the Republicans. He said the Congressional leadership was running up the deficit and joining Mr. Bush in presiding over an economy that was shedding jobs. And Mr. Daschle made no apologies for Democrats' blocking six judicial nominees through filibuster and standing in the way of other legislation, like changes in the handling of class-action suits.
"We have worked well with them on some things, but there are things for which we will do all that we can to oppose this administration because we think they are wrong for the country," Mr. Daschle said. "We ought to use all the tools available to us." 
Democrats are not willing to concede that the Medicare plan will cut into their traditional edge on the issue with older voters. In a memorandum circulated on Tuesday by Representative Robert T. Matsui of California, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, Mr. Matsui told lawmakers that Democrats would be able to wield it as a political weapon in 2004. 
"Not a single senior will have drug coverage through Medicare next year, and when the meager benefit does come, it won't be until 2006," Mr. Matsui wrote in the memorandum, which concluded: "Unfortunately for Republicans, they won't be able to undo the mistakes they've made on Medicare anytime soon."
Republican lawmakers were sent home with instructions as well. "We have to illustrate the Democrats' obstruction in very clear ways," Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, the No. 3 Republican in the Senate, said in a strategy paper. He listed judicial nominations, the drug plan and the class-action proposal as prime areas of Democratic resistance. He also urged his colleagues to point out accomplishments like the tax cuts and support for the war on terrorism.
The clash over the judges led to one of the memorable events of the year. Frustrated by the ability of Senate Democrats to hold together filibusters first against Miguel Estrada and then against a handful of other nominees, the Republican leadership set aside nearly 40 straight hours of floor time this month to try to prove that Democrats were misusing the constitutional power of "advice and consent." 
Democrats countered that Republicans had stalled even more Democratic nominees during the Clinton years, and at the end of the marathon, their filibusters were intact.
Democrats in both chambers also complained that they had been shut out of important House-Senate negotiations on Medicare, energy and other issues, which they said contributed to the opposition to the Medicare plan and played a central role in stalling the energy bill. 
"That really poisoned the well," said Senator Max Baucus of Montana, one of two Democrats allowed into the Medicare talks, about the decision to exclude others. 
The frequent flashes of rancor in the Senate paled in comparison with the relations in the House, where Democrats complained that the Republican majority exercised iron-fisted control and prevented the minority from representing the interests of their constituents.
"This is government of the few, by the few, for the few," said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, who rated the session a dismal failure.
Throughout the year, House Democrats chafed at being prevented from offering their versions of legislation on the floor. A clash between Democrats and Republicans on the House Ways and Means Committee ended with the Capitol police being summoned. Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California and chairman of the panel, later made a tearful apology on the House floor.
But the troubled relations ruptured anew with the extended roll-call vote on Medicare, held open as Republicans struggled desperately to find a few votes to save the Medicare plan and prevent a humiliating loss for themselves and President Bush. Democrats called it a travesty. 
John Feehery, a spokesman for House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, said that considering the speaker's longtime advocacy of a drug plan, Mr. Hastert did not think three more hours was too long to wait. Mr. Hastert himself, in a speech this month on the role of the speaker, said he was willing to take the steps necessary to score legislative victories. 
"The hallmark of an effective leadership is one that can deliver the votes," he said. "And we have been an effective leadership."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, left, and Max Baucus of Montana before the vote ending Medicare debate. Senator Bill Frist is at rear. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) Chart: "Congress in Review"Before heading home for Thanksgiving break, Congress wrapped up most of its business for the year. Here is a look at some of the major items it completed and some of those that were left undone. FINISHED ALERT SYSTEM -- Expanded a national system to help find missing children. ABORTION -- Approved legislation that would prohibit doctors from performing the procedure that opponents have named partial-birth abortion MEDICARE -- Approved legislation that would add prescription drug benefits to Medicare and overhaul the government-run health program. The bill would offer a new drug benefit to the 40 million elderly and disabled Americans covered by Medicare, beginning in 2006. WAR COSTS -- Approved $87.5 billion for defense and reconstruction in Iraq and Afghanistan, including nearly $65 billion for troops and operations in both countries and an additional $18.6 billion for reconstruction in Iraq. TAX CUTS -- Passed a $350 billion package of tax cuts and state assistance intended to energize the economy -- $320 billion in tax cuts over 10 years and $20 billion over the next two years to state and local governments. FORESTS -- Cleared legislation that would allow the burning of underbrush and the thinning of trees on as much as 20 million acres of federal land as an effort to reduce catastrophic forest fires. UNFINISHED E-MAIL -- A plan to authorize the Federal Trade Commission to come up with a way to regulate commercial e-mail, including the possibility of creating a national "do not e-mail" registry, awaits final House action. The list would allow people to prohibit marketers from sending them unsolicited e-mail. ENERGY -- The House passed the first major energy legislation in a decade. The bill includes $23 billion in tax breaks over 10 years and seeks to encourage greater domestic oil and gas production, energy efficiency, construction of new coal and nuclear power plants and greater stability and investment in the nation's power grid. The bill does not permit oil and gas drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. The bill was blocked in the Senate. WELFARE -- The House voted to renew the 1996 welfare law. The renewal provides $16.5 billion a year for states to run their welfare programs, imposes stricter work requirements on poor people who receive cash assistance from the federal government, provides up to $300 million a year for programs to promote stable marriages, and includes a modest increase in child care spending. The Senate did not act. CLASS-ACTION SUITS -- The House approved a bill that would limit most big class-action lawsuits to federal court. Suits with at least 100 plaintiffs and at least $5 million at stake would be moved from state courts and sent to federal courts if fewer than two-thirds of the class members were from the same state. Democrats blocked the bill in the Senate, but lawmakers say they are near agreement and hope to consider the measure next year. BANKRUPTCY -- The House voted again to overhaul the nation's bankruptcy system and make it harder for people to escape debts by filing for bankruptcy. There was no action in the Senate. CHILD TAX CREDIT -- The House and Senate passed bills that would give increased child tax credits to millions of low-income families who did not receive them in the new tax cut law. Negotiations on a compromise are stalled. NOMINATIONS -- Senate Democrats blocked votes on six of President Bush's nominees for the federal appeals courts. APPROPRIATIONS -- Congressional negotiators reached agreement on Tuesday on an $820 billion catch-all spending proposal that incorporates 7 of 13 spending bills that were not approved. The House and Senate are scheduled to return in early December to consider the plan. If it does not pass, much of the federal government will remain under a stopgap measure that extends through January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (73%); AIDS & HIV (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); ABORTION (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (59%); MITCH MCCONNELL (59%); MAX BAUCUS (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ARCTIC (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



632 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-22

Senior Iraqi Cleric Opposes U.S. Plan for Indirect Ballot
Washington was left scrambling to overhaul a plan to quickly turn power over to the Iraqis after Iraq's most powerful cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, made public his opposition to the American proposal for indirect elections, and insisted that there be a direct, popular ballot. A1

The situation in the city of Mosul, once so promising, now seems to demonstrate the difficulties faced in Iraq. Attacks on American troops, which have killed more than 25 in the Mosul area this month, illustrate what local Iraqis say is a rapidly deteriorating relationship. A1

Dozens of the American intelligence experts and linguists sent to Iraq to search for illicit weapons have been reassigned to an expanding effort to learn more about the insurgents attacking troops. The shift appears to reflect a decision that the hunt for guerrillas is becoming the more urgent task. A15

Resolution Passed on Iran
The International Atomic Energy Agency passed a resolution that condemns Iran for covering up its nuclear program but stops short of urging action by the United Nations Security Council. A22

Palestinians Killed in Gaza Strip
Israeli troops shot dead three Palestinians they described as militants after the men were spotted near a road leading to a Jewish settlement in the southern Gaza Strip. Palestinians said the three men were civilians from the same family. A7

Georgian Gains Support
The leader of Georgia's popular revolt, Mikhail Saakashvili, became the front-runner for the presidency when the opposition united behind him as its sole candidate. A22

The Bush administration will send an interagency team to Georgia to determine the needs of the transitional government. Representatives from the departments of Justice, Treasury and Defense will offer help in advancing pro-Western economic and political reforms. A22

NATIONAL A24-36

Poverty Fight Hits Schools; Students Find Haven
With unemployment and spiraling housing costs pushing a growing number of families into homelessness, a federal law that requires local districts to seek out and enroll homeless students and provide services to them has forced public schools across the nation to become a safety net of last resort. A1

Legislation Add-Ons Help Few
In public, members of Congress have spent hundreds of hours debating the future of Medicare and the need for a national energy policy. Behind the scenes, they have spent even more time working on little-known provisions of the legislation that benefit specific health care providers and energy companies. A1

Rising Confidence in Giving
A new survey shows that the number of people expressing strong confidence in charities has risen recently but remains below where it was before the Sept. 11 attacks, which inspired record donations but also scrutinized how funds are used. A28

U.S. Ranks 9th in Auto Safety
The United States, long the safest place in the world to drive and still much better than average among industrialized nations, has let its ranking fall from first to ninth over the last 30 years, according to a review of global fatality rates. A34

Activist Deemed a Traitor
A human rights advocate freed from a Chinese prison after the United States government interceded on her behalf pleaded guilty to illegally selling American high-tech items with potential military uses to China. A26

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New H.I.V. Cases Increasing
The number of new H.I.V. cases diagnosed in the United States is continuing to climb, and the most significant rise has been among Hispanics and gay and bisexual men, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. A28

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Actor's Statements Prompt Parade Debate
The actor Harvey Fierstein, who plans to dress as Mrs. Claus as he rides in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, and the producers of the parade debated over whether or not the parade is a sacred institution that should be regarded as above politics. A1

Debate Over Schools Ruling
Gov. George Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg have different interpretations of a Court of Appeals ruling that reflects the contentious topic of how to find additional money for education. B1

Barber Sets a World Record
Peter Vita, 93, of Port Chester, N.Y., has been cutting hair for so long that the Guinness Book of World Records named him the longest-practicing barber in the world. But shortly after that, he had a stroke. Now his loyal customers are letting their hair grow a little wilder, hoping to inspire him to pick up the scissors again. B5

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTS D1-7

ARTS E1-20

Collector Sells to Artist
Charles Saatchi, the advertising magnate who is one of Britain's largest contemporary-art collectors, has sold the bulk of his collection of works by the British artist Damien Hirst back to the artist. E1

HOUSE & HOME F1-8

OBITUARIES B11

Donald Gratz
A craftsman in metal whose creative realizations transformed the renderings of artists and architects into objects of art, he was 68. B11

BUSINESS DAY C1-9

Higher Drug Prices Discussed
Having beaten back price controls on prescription drugs in the U.S., the pharmaceutical industry is trying to roll them back overseas, starting in talks over a free-trade agreement with Australia. A1

Clinical Trials Halted
Four clinical trials testing a widely used anemia drug in concert with chemotherapy have been halted after patients developed a higher-than-expected number of blood clots, according to doctors. C1

High Times for Gold
Gold passed $400 an ounce briefly and although gold has been in a bull market since April 2001, rising more than 50 percent since then, many analysts expect it to go even higher. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

CIRCUITS G1-8

EDITORIAL A38-39

Editorials: Adam Cohen on a celebration with darker currents; Gail Collins on how women won the holidays; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the blessings of having just enough.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge E16
TV Listings E19
Crossword E16
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TERRORISM (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); ENERGY REGULATION (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); SHOOTINGS (70%); FAMILY (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); HEALTH CARE (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); GEORGIA (86%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



633 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: Once World Leader in Traffic Safety, U.S. Drops to No. 9 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
The United States, long the safest place in the world to drive and still much better than average among industrialized nations, is being surpassed by other countries.
 Even though the nation has steadily lowered its traffic death rates, its ranking has fallen from first to ninth over the last 30 years, according to a review of global fatality rates adjusted for distances traveled. If the United States had kept pace with Australia and Canada, about 2,000 fewer Americans would die because of traffic accidents every year; if it had the same fatality rateas England, it would save 8,500 lives a year. 
 Many safety experts cite several reasons the United States has fallen in the rankings, despite having vehicles equipped with safety technology that is at least as advanced as, if not more than, any other nation. They include lower seat-belt use than other nations; a rise in speeding and drunken driving; a big increase in deaths among motorcyclists, many of whom do not wear helmets; and the proliferation of large sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks, which are more dangerous to occupants of other vehicles in accidents and roll over more frequently. 
"Our fatality rates are lowering, but not to the degree they have lowered in other regions of the world," said William T. Hollowell, director of the Office of Applied Vehicle Safety Research at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
Traffic deaths and injuries are growing as a global health issue. The World Health Organization, preparing a report on the issue, says traffic accidents will become the world's third-leading cause of death and disability by 2020, up from ninth today -- a toll particularly costly because victims are so often young adults.
Indeed, automobile accidents will be the main subject of World Health Day next April, supplanting diseases like H.I.V./AIDS and malaria. 
"It's going to be a bigger World Health Day than usual because of the magnitude of the issue," said Dr. Etienne Krug, director of the World Health Organization's department for injuries and violence prevention.
"Because there's very little emphasis on it, and emphasis on other health problems, we don't expect to make progress on traffic safety, which is why the ranking is expected to get worse," Mr. Krug said. He was mainly referring to the developing world, where preventing traffic injuries lags behind fighting disease.
Industrialized nations like the United States are well ahead of developing nations like China, where death rates are not only far higher but also rising. 
Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta has laid out an ambitious target of reducing the nation's traffic death rate to 1 death per 100 million miles traveled from 1.5 deaths by 2008. That would translate into roughly 12,000 fewer deaths per year, given projections for increased road use. Last year in the United States, 42,815 people died in traffic accidents, the most since 1990.
"Here we are losing 43,000 people," Mr. Mineta said. "If we had that many people die in aviation accidents, we wouldn't have an airplane flying. People wouldn't put up with it. They ought not to put up with 43,000 uncles, aunts, mothers, dads, brothers and friends whose lives are snuffed out by traffic accidents."
Getting to his target would require a radically faster pace of improvement. As of last year, the death rate in the United States had fallen to 1.51 deaths per 100 million miles traveled from 1.58 in 1998. 
Since 1970, the United States traffic death rate has fallen from nearly 4.8 deaths per 100 million miles traveled. By 2000, the rate in Britain had fallen to 1.2 deaths per 100 million miles from 6.1 in 1970. The new figure is the lowest traffic death rate compiled by the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development, which collects a variety of statistics from industrialized countries.
Australia's death rate has fallen from 7.13 in 1971 -- the country did not estimate distances traveled the previous year -- to 1.45 in 2001. Canada's death rate is slightly less.
Other nations have much higher rates. Turkey's was close to 11.74 deaths per 100 million miles in 2001 and the Czech Republic was 5.21. The economic organization's median figure in 2001 was about 2.1 deaths.
The Bush administration is mainly focusing on seat-belt use and drunken driving in the near term because they are two major areas where the United States lags some other leading nations.
Dr. Jeffrey W. Runge, administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said: "If everybody buckles up, we can save between 7,000 and 9,000 lives a year. That would drop our fatality rate off the table. The only way you get to 1.0 is to deal with these very important human factors." Most traffic safety experts agree that the seat belt remains the world's most effective safety device. The nation's usage rate has risen considerably over the past couple of decades, to nearly 80 percent today. But top safety regulators in Canada and Australia say their use of seat belts is about 10 percentage points higher.
One reason more Canadians and Australians buckle up is so-called primary seat-belt laws that allow the police to stop motorists simply for not wearing a seat belt. Less than half of the states in this country have such laws.
Dr. Runge has been lobbying states to add primary belt laws. A provision in a federal highway financing bill before Congress would divide $600 million among states that either have primary belt laws or reach a 90 percent usage rate.
Drunken driving rates are also on the rise in this country. Last year, almost 18,000 people died in alcohol-related accidents, the most since 1992.
The administration is pushing for broader use of sobriety courts, which emphasize counseling and treatment as well as jail time. And Dr. Runge wants local jurisdictions to designate special prosecutors for drunken driving. Another problem is motorcycle deaths, which have risen more than 50 percent since 1997. Only 20 states require riders to wear helmets, down from 47 in 1975, when federal highway financing was tied to helmet laws.
The most contentious topic in the safety debate is the effect of sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and minivans. Such vehicles made up about a fifth of new vehicle sales in 1980 but now account for more than half. Studies by the traffic safety agency have shown that light trucks, particularly big sport utilities and pickups, pose considerably more risk to the occupants of cars than other cars do.
Sport utilities are also no more safe than cars for their own occupants, traffic statistics show, because advantages they get from their bulk are offset by a greater propensity to roll over.
A new study by two researchers, Marc Ross from the University of Michigan and Tom Wenzel from the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, estimates that 3,500 fewer people would die each year if 60 percent to 80 percent of the light trucks -- sport utilities, minivans and pickups -- on the road were cars or station wagons.
But the auto industry has disputed such claims. And other studies have attributed thousands of deaths to another cause: fuel economy regulations adopted in the 1970's forced automakers to make lighter passenger cars. But the weights of cars as well as light trucks have been rising for the past decade and a half.
Dr. Leonard Evans, a top safety researcher who retired after more than three decades at General Motors, said any potential improvements in vehicle design would be far outweighed by improvements in driver behavior. He believes the regulators and the news media are too focused on blaming vehicles.
"We've got to have much more focus on avoiding rather than surviving crashes," he said.
The administration is aiming at both driver and vehicle.
Dr. Runge pressured the industry to collaborate on an effort to make sport utilities and pickups less dangerous to people in cars. And a revamped rollover rating system, due next year, seeks to better inform the public about rollovers, which account for more than 10,000 deaths each year.
Mr. Hollowell, a top researcher at the traffic safety agency, said the death rate in the United States had not fallen further for several reasons unique to the country. "The motorcycle fatalities have gone up, the rollovers have gone up, which is a function of a greater numbers of light trucks and vans, and another aspect, in vehicle to vehicle crashes, is that we have a changing fleet," he said.
Dr. Runge, who early in his tenure took heat from Detroit for critical remarks about sport utilities, said, "We've got the safest vehicles in the world, so when you consider where we fall in the scheme of things, we can't blame the vehicles."
He asserted: "We have a unique fleet in this country and we're addressing that. But we could have the perfect vehicles, and until we address the human factors we're not going to change our ranking."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Safer, but Falling Behind"The traffic death rates of industrialized nations have been dropping over the past three decades. The United States, which had the world's lowest rate in 1970, is still among the best but has fallen behind eight other countries. In 2001, every hundredth of a point represented nearly 278 traffic deaths in the United States. Traffic deaths per 100 million miles driven LOWEST TRAFFIC DEATH RATES IN 2001 . . . Britain: 1.21Norway: 1.33Sweden: 1.34Canada: 1.44Australia: 1.45Finland: 1.46Switzerland: 1.46Denmark: 1.48United States: 1.52Germany: 1.81 . . . WHAT THEY WERE IN 1985 . . . Britain: 2.68Norway: 2.79Sweden: 2.37Canada: N.A.Australia: 3.37Finland: 2.80Switzerland: 3.24Denmark: 4.11United States: 2.47Germany: 3.51 . . . AND IN 1970 Britain: 6.09Norway: N.A.Sweden: 5.67Canada: N.A.Australia: 7.13*Finland: N.A.Switzerland: 9.09Denmark: 8.13United States: 4.77Germany: 12.31 *Australian rate is from 1971. (Sources by Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, as well as data compiled by traffic agencies in Australia, France and the United States, and by Dr. Leonard Evans)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); RANKINGS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (86%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%); PICKUP TRUCKS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); MALARIA (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (54%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (69%); ENGLAND (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



634 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
U.S. Drug Industry Trying To Roll Back Prices Abroad
Having beaten back price controls on prescription drugs in the United States, the pharmaceutical industry is trying to roll them back overseas, with help from the administration and Congress.
 In talks over a free-trade agreement with Australia, United States officials are pressing to break down the system by which the Australian government negotiates the prices its citizens pay for prescription drugs. Page A1. 

Orders for Durable Goods Gain
More signs emerged that the economy is strengthening. Orders for items made to last at least three years increased 3.3 percent in October, to $184.5 billion, the Commerce Department said. Personal incomes rose 0.4 percent last month and spending was unchanged. The Labor Department said jobless claims this week fell by 11,000, to 351,000. C5.

Stocks rose in light trading. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 15.63 points, to 9,779.57. The Nasdaq composite index gained 10.27 points, to 1,953.31, and the Standard & Poor's 500 rose 4.56 points, to 1,058.45. C5.

Other Nations Top U.S. in Safety
The United States, the safest place in the world to drive 30 years ago, now ranks ninth, according to a review of global fatality rates adjusted for distances traveled. A34.

Judge Dismisses CNF Lawsuit
A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit by a group of retirees of CNF and its spinoff company, Consolidated Freightways, who said their pensions had been improperly reduced. C4.

No Verdict Reached in Tax Case
Jurors in Fort Worth failed to reach a verdict in the trial of Richard M. Simkanin, a Texas businessman who has not withheld taxes from his workers' paychecks since 2000, the second significant setback in four months for the federal government. C4.

Ex-Boeing Official Denies Charge
Michael M. Sears, the former chief financial officer of Boeing who was dismissed Monday, denied that he violated company policy and held a meeting with an Air Force official to discuss hiring her. C4.

Uncovering Fraud in Massachusetts
William F. Galvin, the secretary of the commonwealth of Massachusetts, has transformed a job once best known for handling a superfluity of paperwork and running the State House Bookstore. He is shining a spotlight on fraudulent financial practices, notably in the mutual fund industry. Massachusetts became the first state to file a civil lawsuit charging fraud against a fund company, Putnam Investments. This month he charged five former Prudential Securities employees with violating securities laws, and in August, he filed a complaint against Morgan Stanley. C3.

Ahold Inquiry Involves Suppliers
Royal Ahold said that United States regulators were investigating some suppliers of its U.S. Foodservice subsidiary in relation to a $1.1 billion accounting scandal earlier this year. World Business, Section W.

Being Chased by the Big Boys
A start-up that became an overnight success with its sweat-absorbing athletic underwear is discovering how tough the competition can be from corporate giants. Small Business. C4.

What Medicare Savings?
The assumption in the Medicare legislation is that privatizing big parts of the program will save money over the long run. A look at 30 years' worth of data shows this to be false. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. C2.

Financial Markets Are Closed
United States government offices, banks and financial markets are closed today in observance of Thanksgiving. Foreign markets are open. Most United States markets will reopen Friday, but stock markets will close at 1 p.m. and the bond markets will close at 2 p.m.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,779.57 up 15.63Nasdaq composite -- 1,953.31 up 10.2710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.24% up 0.05The euro -- $1.1935 up 0.0149The dollar -- 108.98 yen down 0.43 Graph tracks the percentage change in durable goods orders since May.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); DRUG PRICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (73%); SCANDALS (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); JURY TRIALS (70%); VERDICTS (70%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (70%); JUDGES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); ACCOUNTING (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); AIR FORCES (62%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (54%); EXECUTIVES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (80%); CON-WAY INC (54%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); BOEING CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: AHOE (FRA) (80%); AH (BIT) (80%); AH (AMS) (80%); CNW (NYSE) (54%); MS (NYSE) (53%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (80%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (80%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (54%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (68%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



635 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Forecast for Global Growth Is Raised Slightly 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has predicted that an increase in global trade in the next two years will bolster a United States-led economic recovery and reduce unemployment across the 30 industrialized nations that are its members.
 The organization raised its 2003 growth forecast to 2 percent from the 1.9 percent it estimated in April. In its economic outlook issued twice a year, the organization left unchanged its 2004 forecast of 3 percent growth and said the economies of the countries would expand 3.1 percent in 2005. 
 "The most likely scenario for the next two years is one of sustained growth in the U.S. and progressive recovery in Europe and Japan, in a context of low inflationary pressures and with a gradual reduction in unemployment," the chief economist of the organization, Jean-Philippe Cotis, said Wednesday, presenting the report in Paris, where the group is based. The organization is a government-financed forum for economic policies.
Global economies are recovering as businesses resume investment and stock markets rebound from lows in March. Confidence among investors and consumers in the United States, Japan and Europe is up after the war in Iraq and the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome affected growth early in the year.
The American economy, where investment is starting to feed into consumer spending, will "greatly benefit from strong productivity gains," the organization said. 
Japan and the dozen nations sharing the euro will lag as the appreciation in their currencies curbs export growth and their labor markets recover later than that of the United States, delaying a pickup in investment and consumer spending.
"The forecasts are rather consensual," said Nicolas Claquin, an economist with HSBC-CCF in Paris. "When the U.S. feels good, it feeds through the rest of the world."
Global trade will rise 7.8 percent and 9.1 percent, respectively, in 2004 and 2005, up from 4 percent this year, the organization said. Imports from Asian economies not part of the organization "should play an increasingly supportive role in the global recovery," the report said. Growth in China will probably remain above 7 percent in the next two years, the organization said, adding that the country must tackle "severe structural problems in its financial and real sectors."
In the United States, whose recovery has been underpinned by tax cuts and interest rate reductions by the Federal Reserve, growth will be 2.9 percent this year, accelerating to 4.2 percent in 2004 and 3.8 percent in 2005, according to the organization's forecasts.
The organization warned about the United States current account deficit, which is projected to climb to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product from 5 percent this year and next.
"The persistence of large public and external deficits in the U.S. could be a source of exchange rate instability," Mr. Cotis said. "A sudden weakening of the dollar could stifle a fledging European recovery."
The dozen nations sharing the euro will expand by 0.5 percent this year rather than the 1 percent rate predicted in April, according to the growth. Growth will accelerate to a 1.8 percent pace next year and 2.5 percent in 2005. Unemployment in the region will climb to 9 percent next year from 8.8 percent this year, before declining to 8.7 percent in 2005.
Japan's economy will probably grow 2.7 percent in 2003, up from 0.2 percent last year, the organization said. It predicts growth of 1.8 percent in the next two years, it said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); EURO (76%); INFLATION (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); RETAILERS (66%); INTEREST RATES (60%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (53%); SARS (51%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (90%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



636 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Posts Growth, but Is Short of Goal 

BYLINE:  By TONY SMITH

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Brazil has dragged itself out of recession, posting 0.4 percent growth in the third quarter over the previous three-month period, according to data released on Wednesday. But the anemic recovery is still a far cry from the "spectacular growth" promised for this year by President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.
 While Sao Paulo's Bovespa stock index, fueled by hopes of an economic turnaround, hit a record of more than 20,000 points early Wednesday, most economists, who had been predicting third-quarter growth of 1 percent to 3 percent, were disappointed by the figures. Not only was quarter-on-quarter growth feeble, but the economy shrank by 1.5 percent compared with the period in 2002. 
 A recent spate of interest rate cuts, however, should help speed the recovery before year-end and make for faster growth next year, analysts said.
"The figures were a bit disappointing," said Doug Smith, chief economist for the Americas at Standard Chartered in New York. "But it's not evidence the interest rate cuts aren't working, just that they take time to filter through."
Time, however, is a dwindling commodity for Mr. da Silva, who won a landslide election victory a year ago on promises of economic reform, growth, more jobs and better pay for the bulk of the country's 175 million people. 
Recently, the approval ratings of Mr. da Silva, a former union leader, have slipped, largely because many Brazilians see him as putting the markets ahead of his promises to voters.
On taking office in January, Mr. da Silva's pragmatic economic team moved quickly to halt surging inflation by increasing the central bank's leading interest rate to 26.5 percent. That reined in prices, but also stopped the economy in its tracks. 
With ordinary Brazilians paying as much as 87 percent a year for credit, the retail sector ground to a halt, hurting industry and helping push the jobless rate to more than 20 percent in the country's economic heart, Sao Paulo.
Once inflation started to recede, Mr. da Silva made a public promise that his government would oversee a period of "spectacular growth" starting in July, but the economy has remained stubbornly in the doldrums, although the central bank's base rate has come down to 17.5 percent since the bank began cutting rates in June.
Although Wednesday's figures contained some bright spots -- industry grew by 2.7 percent quarter-on-quarter -- they looked more like the silver lining of what is still a cloudy economic horizon. 
Third-quarter consumer spending was still 4.2 percent lower than a year earlier and 0.2 percent lower than the second quarter. 
Though booming exports on the back of a weak real have helped to balance Brazil's books this year, there are signs that the currency's recent recovery is already hurting sales abroad. Agricultural activity was down 6.7 percent quarter-on-quarter and 2.8 percent lower than a year earlier, according to the state statistics institute. 
Agribusiness now accounts for nearly a third of Brazil's economy and for much of its projected $2.35 billion trade surplus this year. 
While exporters say an exchange rate of more than 3 to the dollar is needed to continue the trade boom, the real has strengthened in recent weeks. Despite Wednesday's news of slower-than-expected growth, the real opened slightly stronger at 2.9 to the dollar, buoyed by a spate of overseas bond placements by top Brazilian corporations like Banco Itau and the long-distance carrier Embratel.
Nevertheless, most analysts agreed that the economy seems to have turned a corner and expected faster growth ahead, especially if Mr. da Silva can push through meaningful reforms, like altering the bankruptcy laws to make it easier for banks to seize collateral on bad loans. That, analysts say, is just as important as the central bank reducing its base rate.
"We continue to think the economy hit bottom in the third quarter and now expect a more consistent recovery," said Adauto Lima, economist at WestLB in Sao Paulo.
Mr. Lima predicted 1 percent growth by the end of the year, more optimistic than the 0.6 percent projected by the central bank president, Henrique Meirelles, and the planning ministry, which cut its growth predictions on Monday from 1 percent to 0.4 percent. 
For next year, Mr. Meirelles is more optimistic, predicting 3 percent growth.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Luis Incio Lula da Silva, Brazil's president, promised "spectacular growth" when he took office in January.; Shoppers find better prices since inflation was halted by raising the interest rate, but the economy has suffered. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



637 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Japan Warns Of Tariffs Against U.S. 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Japan said on Wednesday that it would place tariffs on American imports if the Bush administration did not drop duties that it imposed on some Japanese steel products in an effort to protect American companies.
 The threat is the latest volley in an escalating battle involving the United States and Japan as well as Europe. The Japanese announcement came as China denounced a United States decision to impose duties on color television sets from China. 
 To stem the flood of steel from Asia and elsewhere, President Bush introduced tariffs on steel from Japan and other countries in 2002. 
The tariffs will expire in March 2005, but trade negotiators from Japan and Europe want Mr. Bush to drop the tariffs before the presidential election next year, when trade and the protection of American jobs will be an issue.
Japan notified the World Trade Organization in Geneva of its intent on Wednesday, saying that it would assess tariffs of 10.7 billion yen, or $97 million, on American-made goods. Tariffs on steel imports would make up about 45 percent of that amount; the rest of the duties would be on clothing, leather goods and other products.
"We set the amount equal to the American tariffs," said Nobuyuki Sato, a deputy in Japan's tariff bureau. The tariffs will take effect in 30 days, Mr. Sato said, if the United States measures are not removed.
Given the volume of trade between Japan and the United States, the world's two largest economies, the penalties are largely symbolic. More telling, less than 1 percent of the nearly three million tons of steel that Japan imported last year came from the United States.
But Japan, like the European Union, is angered by America's decision to introduce its so-called safeguards on steel imports in an effort to help struggling American producers. The trade organization said in July that the measures were illegal, and it has turned down an appeal by the United States.
An increasing share of Japan's steel exports go to China, so policy makers in Tokyo are less angry than their counterparts in Europe, who took their complaints to the trade organization. The European Union plans to introduce duties on American oranges, textiles and other products worth $2.2 billion if the United States does not remove the tariffs.
Although the safeguards were intended to protect American steel makers hurt by cheap imports, not all United States companies have benefited. Many companies that bought lower-price foreign-made steel have had to pay more. 
Still, Mr. Bush is trying to woo industry groups and labor unions that are crucial to his re-election.
China said seven American antidumping cases this year against mainland products had affected $1.6 billion of goods, Bloomberg News reported from Beijing. 
Washington's decision on Monday to impose tariffs of as much as 46 percent on color TV sets from China violates free-trade principles, China said on Wednesday. The decision came a week after the United States set limits on some Chinese textile imports.
Mr. Bush is trying to close a trade deficit with China that reached $89.7 billion in the first nine months of the year, 22 percent more than in the period a year earlier. China this month agreed to buy $2.4 billion of aircraft and engines from Boeing and General Electric to narrow the gap.
China will engage its American counterparts to defend the interests of its television makers, the ministry said in its statement. The United States ruling is unfair to China's manufacturers and would affect more than $450 million of Chinese goods, the ministry added. China warned earlier that it might refer the recent trade disputes with the United States to the trade organization. 
In a preliminary ruling, the United States Commerce Department said that Chinese TV makers were dumping their products, that is selling them below fair value. The decision means the department may start imposing duties, which will be kept in escrow until a final determination is reached in May, it said in a release. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); TEXTILES (66%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) TAXATION; STEEL AND IRON 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



638 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: ARTS BRIEFING 

BYLINE:  By Ben Sisario 

 BODY:
 HIGHLIGHTS

POP CHARTS: BRITNEY ON TOP -- "In the Zone" indeed. Britney Spears's new album entered the Billboard charts at No. 1, the magazine reported yesterday. Released last week, the album sold 609,000 copies in the United States. Each of Ms. Spears's four albums has opened at the top position on the Billboard charts. Michael Jackson's new compilation, "Number Ones," was also released last week, amid his arrest on sex charges, and sold 121,000 copies. That total put Mr. Jackson's album at No. 13.

TELEVISION: HONORING RICHARD PRYOR -- An all-star cast of actors and comedians pays tribute to Richard Pryor, left, in "I Ain't Dead Yet," a special that will be shown on Comedy Central on Sunday night at 10, Eastern and Pacific times; 9, Central time. Put together quickly to coincide with Mr. Pryor's 63rd birthday on Monday -- a spokesman for the cable channel said yesterday that the show was still being edited -- the one-hour documentary-style show will feature testimonials by Whoopi Goldberg, Dave Chappelle, Chris Rock, Bernie Mac, Margaret Cho, Jon Stewart, George Lopez, Jamie Foxx, Eddie Griffin, Steve Harvey, D. L. Hughley, Wanda Sykes and George Wallace, among others. The show, whose executive producers include Jennifer Lee Pryor, the comedian's wife, will also feature readings of Mr. Pryor's private diaries from the 1970's and 80's, including a poem to be read by the rapper and actor Mos Def. Mr. Pryor, who suffers from multiple sclerosis, will be shown in archival clips from concerts and other performances.

SINGAPORE: CARRERAS CANCELS CONCERT -- The Spanish tenor Jose Carreras canceled a concert in Singapore this week at the end of a long Asian tour. The Straits Times, a newspaper in Singapore, reported that no reason had been given by the local promoter besides "unforeseen circumstances and difficulties." But Mr. Carreras's United States agent, Dick Alen, said yesterday that Mr. Carreras had canceled because the local promoter "did not meet his contractual obligations." Mr. Carreras, 56, was found to have leukemia in 1987 but returned to the concert stage soon after, and Mr. Alen said he is in good health. Mr. Carreras is to sing at Carnegie Hall on Wednesday.

CONCERTS: THANKSGIVING JAMS -- And now let us give thanks for jam bands. In a concert tradition that has taken hold in recent years, the days after Thanksgiving see a confluenceof a certain type of rock band, the kind with, well, a certain level of melodic stamina: the kind that can play all night, it seems, and sometimes does. This year the jam-band holiday is anchored by Phish, which is making a somewhat rare appearance tomorrow at the Nassau Coliseum in Uniondale, N.Y. The group reunited in 2002 after a two-year hiatus. . . . O.A.R. (originally an abbreviation for Of a Revolution), from Ohio, plays at the Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, tomorrow and Saturday. . . . Moe, from upstate New York, will play at the Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway at 74th Street, tomorrow and Saturday nights. . . . Also the New Deal, a three-piece group from Toronto that plays a danceable, electronic update of jam-rock, plays at the Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, tomorrow and Saturday nights, and Karl Denson's Tiny Universe, with Mr. Denson on saxophone, plays late tomorrow night (after Phish) and Saturday night at Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street.

THEATER: MORISSETTE JOINS 'THE EXONERATED' -- Next week Alanis Morissette, left, the seven-time Grammy Award-winning pop singer, will join the revolving cast of "The Exonerated," the drama about people sentenced to death for crimes they did not commit. From Tuesday to Dec. 7 Ms. Morissette -- if you don't remember her 14-million selling album "Jagged Little Pill," her readings in "The Vagina Monologues" or her appearances as God in the films "Dogma" and "Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back," perhaps you recall her in the 1980's children's comedy show "You Can't Do That on Television" -- will portray Sunny Jacobs, who served 16 years..

FOOTNOTES

The actor Sean Penn, left, may travel to Iraq and write about his experiences for The San Francisco Chronicle, Entertainment Weekly reported this week. Mr. Penn, 43, who lives in Marin County, Calif., visited Baghdad last December and has been a vocal opponent of the Bush administration. Phil Bronstein, the editor of The Chronicle, said yesterday that he was impressed by some vignettes that Mr. Penn had written during his last trip about daily life in Iraq -- not about politics -- and that he would be interested in publishing similar work in the future. When asked whether he would provide Mr. Penn with press credentials for his trip, Mr. Bronstein said, "We're willing to write him a letter saying that he was going to be writing pieces for us." Mr. Penn's spokeswoman, Mara Buxbaum, said he did not currently have plans to visit Iraq. . . . Alexander Vershbow, the United States ambassador to Russia, wrote in an article in The Moscow Times that music and video piracy are hurting the Russian economy. Mr. Vershbow wrote that more than 320 million pirated discs are produced in Russia each year, some 90 percent of which are exported, and that the country's lax attitude toward piracy stifles foreign investment. "Piracy is very profitable," Mr. Vershbow wrote, "but the profits are realized by only a very rich few, at the expense of many, many others."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jam after turkey: Phish, with the guitarist Trey Anastasio and the drummer Jon Fishman, will perform tomorrow at the Nassau Coliseum in Uniondale, N.Y. (Report, below left.) (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); RECORD RELEASES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); CABLE TELEVISION (75%); ARRESTS (71%); SEX OFFENSES (70%); RAP MUSIC (69%); HIP HOP CULTURE (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (63%); THANKSGIVING (60%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (51%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (50%) MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); COMEDY AND HUMOR; TELEVISION 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: BRITNEY SPEARS (88%); GEORGE LOPEZ (78%); JON STEWART (74%); CHRIS ROCK (54%) SPEARS, BRITNEY; PRYOR, RICHARD; CARRERAS, JOSE; SISARIO, BEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (91%); UNITED STATES (91%) SINGAPORE

TITLE: I AIN'T DEAD YET (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



639 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: Four Walls That Change the World 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

DATELINE: MEBANE, N.C. 

 BODY:
"I picked this house because of a dream," Pearlie Mae Seals of Orchard Village, Tenn., told Bill Bamberger, a photographer, in 1994.
 Ms. Seals is part of a remarkable delegation of homeowners that Mr. Bamberger documented over 10 years in half a dozen neighborhoods in Tennessee, Texas and North Carolina: first-time homeowners living in what is characterized as "affordable housing." 
 Owning a home sounds like an American birthright to most, undeserving of discussion. But people like Ms. Seals, to whom home ownership seemed like the realization of a dream, were universally eloquent on its importance, as Mr. Bamberger's project reveals. His photographs, and interviews conducted by his wife, Alice Boyle, are the subject of an exhibition, "Stories of Home," which opens on Dec. 4 at the National Building Museum in Washington. 
"This house used to run me in my sleep," Ms. Seals continued. "I took it just like the house was a giant boogie man that was after me."
Ms. Seal's mother corrected her.
"She said, 'No, baby, take your dream backward,' " Ms. Seals recalled. "The house is reaching out to say, 'Come on, I'll hold you.' "
Ms. Seals had the dream again.
"This time I told the house, 'I'm not going to run no more. We're going to fight it out," she said.
In 1992, Ms. Seals purchased a blue house with white trim that looked like the house in her dream, taking advantage of assistance from the Chattanooga Neighborhood Enterprise, a nonprofit agency that helped low-income families become homeowners.
In Mr. Bamberger's lucid portraits, homeowners' faces tell their stories. And houses, proud and personal, inside and out, tell their stories clearly, too. 
To some, ownership represented a new sense of control, to others an asset to pass down to children, and to many, a new home was the center of hope.
"It's not as depressing when you come home," said Charles Dunn of Chattanooga. "I come home from work and think, 'This is my place, and nobody can make me leave.' "
Ms. Seals told Mr. Bamberger thatas a young girl she had told her mother: "One day before I die, I'm going to own my own home. If I could own my own home and live in it for one month and lose it, then I'd be happy."
Ms. Seal's house is now for sale.
"Hard times done hit," she said on Monday. "My bills and everything. It got too expensive."
But her vision as a girl, a daughter of sharecroppers and one of 12 children, remains true.
"Don't be sorry, be glad for me," Ms. Seals said. "If I'm lucky enough to get another chance, I'd do it again." She is having a new dream, too, about a new, larger house.
"I just can't find it yet," she said. "In due time it will come to me."
Mr. Bamberger, sitting last week with Ms. Boyle in his red brick studio, a former appliance store in Mebane, spoke of the people they had met and the leap of faith they had taken. "Most of them felt pretty damn good about it," he said. As Charles Hughes, a resident in Mountain View Court in Chattanooga, described it: "I'd rather be here than anywhere else."
In 1995, Mr. Hughes and his wife, Erma, purchased a renovated cinder-block house in a neighborhood where they had lived for 30 years. Mr. Hughes was 78. Mrs. Hughes died three years ago.
"I'm paying on it," Mr. Hughes said on Monday. "It's working well. So far so good." Mr. Hughes said that he would be at home on Thanksgiving, cooking.
"Turkey, ham, cake -- I do all that kind of cooking," he said. "I'm a good cook."
Mr. Bamberger, 47, was born in Philadelphia; Ms. Boyle, 50, in Washington. They met at the University of North Carolina in 1979.
Mr. Bamberger's previous project documented the closing of the 113-year-old White Furniture Company factory in Mebane in 1993. The next year, he was invited by the Lyndhurst Foundation to photograph first-time homeowners living in affordable housing in Chattanooga. With support from the Center for the Study of the American South and the Center for Urban and Regional Studies at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, and the Enterprise Foundation, a national advocate for affordable housing, Mr. Bamberger continued his work in San Antonio in 2002 and in eastern North Carolina until August of this year.
His documentation is a part of a three-year initiative, "This House Is Home," on the meaning and impact of affordable home ownership, which included an academic conference last month.
"The topic is in favor right now," said Dr. William Rohe, the director of the Center for Urban and Regional Studies. "If the Bush administration has any urban agenda, it is to expand home ownership opportunities. And city mayors see home ownership as an economic development strategy, unlike public housing."
For Mr. Bamberger's six-month stay in San Antonio, he collaborated with Gregory Snyder, an associate professor at the UNC College of Architecture in Charlotte, who devised the modular mobile gallery and studio that was Mr. Bamberger's base of operations. "This gallery was the 'brother from another planet,' " Mr. Snyder said. Assembled on a lot on San Antonio's West Side, a Mexican-American neighborhood, the gallery, by design, became an active part of the community.
In addition to documenting the neighborhood, which includes Plaza Florencia, homes built by Habitat for Humanity, Mr. Bamberger invited residents to participate in choosing images and hanging exhibitions under the direction of Sandra Lopez, the gallery manager. Ms. Lopez grew up on the West Side.
Mr. Bamberger also invited artists, including Reyes Garcia, recommended by a local arts council, to paint a mural on the side of the gallery that facedthe street. Mr. Garcia, 18, uses spray paint and makes graffiti.
"My mom went out and bought me the paint," said Mr. Reyes, who lives with his mother, grandmother, sister and brother in a house that his grandmother owns. "I was 17, and you have to be 18 to buy the spray paint.
"People on the West Side usually stay inside, " he continued. "They let their guard down, came to the gallery. Everybody started going out more, walking around more." Asked to offer his definition of a home, Mr. Reyes said, "It would be my neighborhood. My neighborhood is like my room. It reminds me of me. I grew up rough."
Mr. Bamberger, who seems to engage rapidly and then devote himself to a topic, even conversationally, said that he had less difficulty taking portraits than taking pictures of the interiors of houses.
"I would go time and time again to people's homes to get to know them," he said. "Folks are sometimes much more protected about their private spaces than they are about themselves in public. I felt like a salesman, with my gear."
One of his early breakthroughs came with the Hugheses, who also changed his understanding of his own project.
"I knocked on the door and Erma said, 'Son, you look tired, come in and lie down," he recalled. "I went in, lay down on their yellow sofa and fell asleep for two hours. And I woke up and thought, 'This is all different now.' The notion of being taken care of. I remember feeling a little bit like I was in my grandmother's home. It felt cozy and safe. And Erma was cooking when I woke up. And they fed me."
Mr. Bamberger describes the Hughes house as full of expression, of important things that they never had.
"Erma would say when she was growing up she hardly had anything, not much in the way of bright clothes or toys," Mr. Bamberger said. "And so her home was filled with color and toys. They never had children. Their bedroom bureau is filled with pictures of young people who had adopted them, who called her Mama."
Ms. Boyle, a photographer, also works as a real estate agent in Mebane. She observed that the issues of what makes a house a home are the same at any economic level.
"Sometimes you get a very intimate involvement with people looking for a house," she said. "And it's around some of these issues -- family and identity."
By most national definitions, affordable homes are a category of housing for people earning 50 percent to 80 percent of the current median income. Buyers spend no more than 30 percent of that income on housing. Bart Harvey, chairman of the Enterprise Foundation in Columbia, Md., said that prices range from $60,000 to $100,000.
The most common criticism of affordable home ownership is the risk that people like Ms. Seals, happy in their houses, will not be able to make payments.
"There's concern that people qualifying don't have a good shot at keeping homes," Dr. Rohe said. "People paying more than they can afford, or they have jobs that may not be there in a year. That you're encouraging people to get into home ownership who will probably default -- and that's a pretty traumatic experience." 
But the Rev. David L. Moore, the director of the Metropolitan Housing and Community Development Corporation, a nonprofit organization in North Carolina, where Mr. Bamberger concluded his project, has helped 100 families to buy homes over 13 years, and "lost two," he said.
William and Shirley Suggs are one of Mr. Moore's families. They live in Field of Dreams, new houses that Mr. Moore characterized as "the only truly integrated community in eastern North Carolina," a fact he attributed to the equalizing pride of home ownership. The Suggses moved from a trailer to their new house last year at Christmas.
"Yes, sir, it was a good Christmas," Mr. Suggs said on Monday. He bought the house because he liked the way it was built.
"It's got a front porch all across the front of it," he said. "It was pretty to me."
Mr. and Mrs. Suggs, who have two grown children, live there with their dog, Lady, a terrier.
"She's just like a young 'un around here, plenty of room to run around," he explained.
Thanksgiving will be at home, with family, which now includes five great-grandchildren. Mr. Suggs still seems to think of the house as something of an answered prayer. 
"Oh, man, I love it," he said in a burst. "I appreciate it so bad I don't know what to do."

"Stories of Home" opens at the National Building Museum in Washington on Dec. 4; www.nbm.org or (202) 272-2448.

GRAPHIC: Photos: THERE'S NO PLACE LIKE . . . -- Left, Bill Bamberger and Alice Boyle, with Stella, at home in Mebane, N.C. Left above, Christopher McDonald in Orchard Village, Tenn. (Photographs by Bill Bamberger); (Photo by Roger Haile for The New York Times)(pg. F1); SHELTER -- Nancy Camarillo, 14, and her sister, Alejandra, 12, on their porch in San Antonio. Their parents, Miguel and Maria, emigrated from Mexico.; A DEFINITION OF HOME -- On a house in San Antonio, a welcome and a blessing, which reads: "In the home, where there is faith, there is love. Where there is love, there is peace. Where there is peace, God is there, where there is God, one wants for nothing." (Photographs by Bill Bamberger); ART OF THE EVERYDAY -- Bill Bamberger, above left, with visitors to the mobile gallery, right, which served as his base of operations in San Antonio. It became a community center. The subjects of his photographs helped organize the exhibitions. (Photos by Gregory Snyder; left, Alice Boyle)(pg. F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TRENDS (62%) Housing; Photography ; Biographical Information; Social Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUILDING MUSEUM (83%) National Building Museum (Washington, DC)

PERSON: Bill Bamberger; William L Hamilton

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (93%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (92%) TENNESSEE, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Tennessee; Texas; North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



640 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1928 words

HEADLINE: TV Maze: A Survival Guide 

BYLINE:  By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
IT'S not hard to find the television department in a 60,000-square-foot cathedral of electronics. Just close your eyes and listen for the explosions.
 Jim and Anna Jeffers braved the cacophony last Saturday afternoon at just such a place: the Best Buy store at the Garden State Plaza in Paramus, N.J. And with expressions that seemed alternately exhilarated, exasperated and intimidated, they faced down an imposing wall of screens. 
 "Look at this," said Mr. Jeffers, a 45-year-old human-resources manager from nearby Maywood, gesturing at the roughly 180 models of televisions arrayed about him. "It's too many choices. You can't just walk into the store and buy a TV these days. It's like a research project." 
Mr. Jeffers pulled out his cheat sheet: a piece of paper covered with arcane acronyms, abbreviations and jargon.
"I'll tell you, with all of this technology I definitely would not be out looking for a TV these days, but our TV just died one day and it forced my hand," he said. 
As recently as five years ago, the typical electronics store would have stocked just two kinds of televisions: the standard tube the nation has known since the 1950's, and bulky rear-projection units with big screens but middling picture quality.
Now the buyer walking into that store finds no fewer than six kinds, in an even wider variety of technical configurations, requiring a mastery of jargon like HDTV, L.C.D., D.L.P., plasma, enhanced definition, flat panel, rear projection and aspect ratio.
With television-buying's peak season starting tomorrow and continuing through the football playoffs in January, millions of Americans will be trying to make sense of it all. For all of the nation's computers, MP3 players, digital cameras and multifunction doodads, TV remains the essential technology in most American homes (perhaps in addition to refrigeration and plumbing). 
While the average TV set lasts about 11 years, families typically buy a new set every three or four years, industry officials say. Over all, Americans are expected to buy 30 million televisions this year, at a rough average of $400 each. 
"Let's face it, the big-screen TV is the fireplace, the hearth of family in our society," said Andrew Shulklapper, senior buyer for televisions at Circuit City, one of the biggest electronics retailers. 
For all of the technical mumbo jumbo, the two most important changes in the television market are quite simple. In image quality, big-screen televisions (those with screens larger than 36 inches, measured diagonally) are no longer markedly inferior to smaller ones. Perhaps more important, a big-screen television no longer has to be a behemoth in the corner.
That change in overall size extends far beyond the expensive flat-panel sets, which are mere inches thick and use either a liquid-crystal display (L.C.D.) or plasma technology. While an analog rear-projection set with a 50-inch screen might weigh more than 200 pounds and be almost three feet deep, digital projection sets might pack the same screen size into a unit weighing less than 80 pounds and measuring barely 18 inches deep. Moreover, the digital projection set will probably cost thousands of dollars less than a flat-panel display.
Many electronics experts agree that the thinning of the television has wrought a striking change in the way families shop for TV's. Suddenly, they say, women who might have objected to their husband's or boyfriend's big-screen fantasies are softening their objections.
"Now, the consumer purchase process has evolved simply from a male-centric decision process to one that is being driven equally if not more by the female, given that you can now integrate the TV into the room as art, rather than the big black box," said Tim E. Baxter, senior vice president for marketing at Sony Electronics' consumer division. "Now I am giving back an entire corner of the room that was dedicated to the TV."
Matt Guttman and Debby Hoffman seem to reflect that perspective. At the Best Buy last Saturday, Ms. Hoffman, a 27-year-old food scientist, gestured at a row of old-style analog projection units and shook her head dismissively.
"One of those would be bigger than our entire entertainment system," she said. Ms. Hoffman and Mr. Guttman, her fiance, said they had recently moved into a new apartment in Fort Lee, N.J. At the store, they stood in front of a 50-inch L.C.D. projection unit from Sony priced at $3,133.99.
"The big issue is the size of the back," said Mr. Guttman, a 31-year-old lawyer. "We wouldn't replace our existing TV unless we could get something thinner. The flat-panel units are great, but they are still really expensive. This is sort of an intermediate step."
Both Mr. Guttman and Mr. Jeffers said they had been thinking about a new television for about a month. And it can take that long, it seems, to figure out all the choices.

Taking a TV's Measure
Some things haven't changed over the decades, like the capabilities of a standard television set: 480 horizontal lines of resolution. The catch is that every time a television signal is refreshed (generally 60 times a second), only half of those 480 lines are actually changed. That is called an interlaced signal -- and standard television is called 480i.
For decades, the physical shape of television images has also remained unchanged: a relatively square ratio of 4 to 3 in the image's width to height, known as its aspect ratio. In most televisions, that signal is displayed by beaming electrons directly onto the back of a glass tube, which is why standard televisions are called direct-view cathode-ray tubes, or C.R.T.'s.
In a conventional direct-view C.R.T., the bigger the screen, the farther back the electron gun has to be. That is why most televisions with bigger screens have until now been so heavy and bulky. 
So in technical language, the standard analog television is a direct-view 4:3 C.R.T. displaying a 480i image. (Keep in mind that merely subscribing to digital cable or digital satellite does not change the fact that your old television is still displaying old-fashioned 480i signals.)
Alas, that's the easy part. Then it gets more complicated, not only because of new video formats (beyond 4:3 480i), but also because of new technologies (beyond C.R.T.'s) available to display those signals.

Defining 'Definition'
A movie buff might be annoyed at the black bars at the top and bottom of the screen when watching a wide-screen film on a 4:3 set. New TV's with the wider 16:9 aspect ratio often avoid that problem.
And those wanting to see DVD movies in their full glory need a television capable of displaying, at a minimum, what are known as 480p images. DVD movies have the same 480 lines of resolution as television, but on a DVD all 480 lines are refreshed in every frame. This is known as progressive (as opposed to interlaced) scanning -- hence 480p.
The consumer electronics industry has taken to referring to 480p as "enhanced definition" and is positioning such products as entry-level digital televisions. Enhanced-definition sets can cost thousands of dollars less than their high-definition siblings.
Even in what is generically called high-definition television, or HDTV, there are competing standards. The first (adhered to by companies including Panasonic and ABC) uses 720 lines, progressively scanned, called 720p. The second (adhered to by Sony, CBS and NBC) uses 1,080 interlaced lines, called 1080i.
Fortunately for consumers, almost all high-definition units will accept signals in either format and will then convert them to the TV's native resolution.

Making Bigger Better
After determining the image quality -- standard, enhanced definition or high definition -- and choosing between the boxier 4:3 or the wider 16:9 format, consumers must then decide on a display technology.
Many experts believe that modern direct-view C.R.T.'s still have the best overall image quality. But C.R.T. units are heavy, bulky and generally unavailable with screens bigger than about 40 inches. (And a 40-inch direct-view C.R.T. is already a behemoth.)
There are also the two flat-panel technologies, with plasma screens dominating the market at 40 inches and up, and L.C.D.'s dominating the market for smaller flat-panel units. (Flat-panel sets are not to be confused with flat screens, which even many conventional sets now have.) Flat-panel units, however, can be expensive -- from $4,500 to $10,000 for a screen of 40 inches or so.
That is why the most fervent technical and marketing battles are being fought at what appears to be a sweet spot of size, bulkiness and price: the new digital-projection technologies.
The first wave of rear-projection units used cathode-ray tubes. While in a direct-view television, electrons are beamed directly onto a glass tube, a rear-projection set is more like a self-contained movie theater, where images are beamed as visible light onto a screen (in this case translucent). The imprecision of that process explains why analog rear-projection units do not look so great. 
Now two digital projection techniques are battling in the marketplace: L.C.D. rear-projection and a technology from Texas Instruments called digital light processing (or D.L.P.) rear-projection. "D.L.P. is a slightly better picture quality, but L.C.D. right now is more economical," said Ed Wolff, a vice president at Panasonic's display group.
Either, however, delivers pictures far superior to conventional rear-projection units, and in a much smaller package.
"These new technologies are really important in situations where there is a confined or limited amount of space," or concerns about weight or bulk, said Steve G. Panosian, Samsung's senior marketing manager for digital projection televisions.
Put together, the new digital projection technologies are known in the industry as microdisplay units (although they usually have big screens). Companies including Philips are developing a third microdisplay technology known as liquid crystal on silicon, or LCoS, but those companies have not yet managed large shipments to retailers.
"Most people won't know that there are even technologies called L.C.D. or D.L.P., and it would be easier if they didn't have to worry about that," said Lee Simonson, head of the television business team at Best Buy. "They just know it's lighter, brighter and thinner."

The Final Analysis
There are other considerations. Some high-definition monitors come with a digital tuner built in for receiving digital broadcasts over the air, and in a few years such tuners will be required on all big-screen sets, potentially adding hundreds of dollars to the cost. But consumers who have cable or satellite service generally do not need a built-in tuner because that function is provided by a separate decoder box. 
In the end, a conventional television suffices for many people's tastes. For all of the new technologies, the most popular televisions remain color analog sets in the 25- to 27-inch range, with about 8.2 million shipped to dealers this year, according to the Consumer Electronics Association, a trade group. 
Simple sets can turn up in even the most high-tech settings. At Sony's United States headquarters in Midtown Manhattan, only the latest, most impressive models are on display in the retail store in the building's basement. But earlier this month on the 35th floor, in the waiting room for the private dining area and conference center known as the Sony Club, there sat the same analog rear-projection television that had been there for years.
"Oh, my God," a Sony public relations executive said. "What's that doing there?"

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A caption in Circuits on Thursday with an article about shopping for television sets referred incorrectly to those pictured, which owe their slim profile to plasma or liquid crystal displays. They are known as flat-panel sets, not merely flat-screen.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALL AGLOW -- Shoppers at a Best Buy store at the Garden State Plaza in Paramus, N.J., compare sets in the vast television department. There are no fewer than six kinds of TV's in most stores, in a variety of technical configurations. (Photo by Joe Fornabaio for The New York Times)(pg. G1); FLATTENED -- Flat-screen TV's achieve a slim profile with liquid-crystal displays or pockets of compressed gas. (Photo by Joe Fornabaio for The New York Times)(pg. G7) Chart: "Video Smorgasbord"Choosing a television set used to be straightforward. Now its a challenge even to master the jargon you'll encounter in a store. Broadly speaking, you can expect to find no fewer than six categories of TV technology (with a seventh, liquid crystal on silicon, just emerging). And there are further distinctions to consider in image definition. Direct ViewTYPE: C.R.T.DESCRIPTION: The classic set, beaming electrons directly onto the back of a glass tubePROS: Still the best image quality; durableCONS: Heavy, bulkyTYPICAL PRICE RANGE: $100-$2,500TYPICAL SIZE RANGE: Hand-held to around 40SAMPLE MODELS AROUND 40 INCHES: Panasonic CT-36E13 36 non-HD $699.95 Sony KV40XBR800 40 HD $2,499.99 Rear ProjectionTYPE: C.R.T.DESCRIPTION: Projects image from a cathode-ray tube onto the back of a translucent screenPROS: Least expensive bigscreen technologyCONS: Heavy, bulky; mediocre picture qualityTYPICAL PRICE RANGE: $1,500-$3,000TYPICAL SIZE RANGE: 40-65SAMPLE MODELS AROUND 40 INCHES: Sony KP43HT20 43 HD $1,499.99 TYPE: L.C.D.DESCRIPTION: New digital system using micro liquid crystal panelsPROS: Thinner units and much better image quality than C.R.T. rear-projectionCONS: More expensive than C.R.T. rear-projection for the same screen sizeTYPICAL PRICE RANGE: $2,500-$7,000TYPICAL SIZE RANGE: 42-70SAMPLE MODELS AROUND 40 INCHES: Sony KF42WE610 42 HD $2,799.99 TYPE: D.L.P.DESCRIPTION: New digital system using Texas Instrument's digital light processing technologyPROS: Thinner units and much better image quality than C.R.T. rear-projectionCONS: More expensive than C.R.T. rear-projection for the same screen sizeTYPICAL PRICE RANGE: $3,500-$5,200TYPICAL SIZE RANGE: 43-61SAMPLE MODELS AROUND 40 INCHES: Samsung HLN437W 43 HD $3,699 TYPE: LCoSDESCRIPTION: New digital system using liquid-crystal-on-silicon technologyPROS: Thinner units and much better image quality than C.R.T. rear-projectionCONS: Limited availabilityTYPICAL PRICE RANGE: n/aTYPICAL SIZE RANGE: 44-60SAMPLE MODELS AROUND 40 INCHES: n/a Flat PanelTYPE: L.C.D.DESCRIPTION: Hangable units using liquid-crystal displaysPROS: Mere inches thin; immune to burn in, a permanent trace of an imageCONS: Expensive; generally unavailable in sizes larger than about 40TYPICAL PRICE RANGE: $700-$10,000TYPICAL SIZE RANGE: 15-42SAMPLE MODELS AROUND 40 INCHES: Samsung LTN406W 40 HD $8,999 Sony KDL-42XBR950 42 HD $10,000 (February 2004) TYPE: PlasmaDESCRIPTION: Hangable units using small pockets of gasPROS: Mere inches thin, even in very large screen sizesCONS: Expensive; potentially susceptible to burn-inTYPICAL PRICE RANGE: $4,500-$22,000TYPICAL SIZE RANGE: 32-62SAMPLE MODELS AROUND 40 INCHES: Panasonic TH-42PX20U 42 HD $6,499.95 Samsung SPN4235 42 ED $4,499 C.R.T. cathode-ray tube L.C.D. liquid crystal display D.L.P. digital light processing LCoS liquid crystal on silicon HD high definition ED enhanced definition (Sources by Electronics companies, trade groups, technology analysts, retailers)(pg. G7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (89%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (63%) Television; Digital and High-Definition Television; Liquid Crystal Displays

PERSON: Seth Schiesel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



641 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: NORTHERN IRAQ; 
Attacks on G.I.'s in Mosul Rise as Good Will Fades

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS

DATELINE: MOSUL, Iraq, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Since the Americans came to town seven months ago, the firefighters in this northern Iraqi city have gotten new trucks and new uniforms, American training and salaries 10 times larger than they used to be.
 But when word came Sunday afternoon that two American soldiers had been shot in the head and killed a block away, the men of Ras al Jada fire station ran to the site and looked on with glee as a crowd of locals dragged the Americans from their car and tore off their watches and jackets and boots. 
 "I was happy, everyone was happy," Waadallah Muhammad, one of the firefighters, said as he stood in front of the firehouse. "The Americans, yes, they do good things, but only to enhance their reputation. They are occupiers. We want them to leave." 
It was not supposed to be this way in Mosul, an ethnically diverse city of two million people and the economic and cultural center of northern Iraq. 
As places like Ramadi and Falluja and Tikrit burned and their residents rebelled against the American occupation this summer, Mosul stayed calm, the one city with a Sunni Arab majority where most people still seemed to regard the Americans as their friends. A vigorous and far-reaching effort by the 101st Airborne Division to rebuild the city's roads, schools and public buildings seemed to cement an unusually warm bond. 
That appears to be changing very fast. The money the American occupiers once doled out freely has dried up, and other reconstruction aid has yet to arrive. Attacks on Americans, which have killed more than 25 in the Mosul area this month, have highlighted what local Iraqis say is a rapidly deteriorating relationship. 
While Iraqi leaders once saluted American soldiers as their partners in building a new country, many now say their complaints go unheard. Moderate Iraqis cooperating with the Americans say the young men of Mosul are increasingly heeding the calls of militant clerics. With three prominent Iraqi civil servants killed in recent weeks, the Iraqis say, they are paying a steadily higher price for their cooperation. 
It is not too late, residents say, to rebuild trust, but few Iraqis express much hope. Since the attacks against Americans increased, commanders have sent more troops into the city and detained dozens of suspected militants. The result appears to be a descending spiral, in which the crackdown is draining away much of the good will that remains.
"I want the Americans to succeed, and I want every American soldier to go home safely," said Raad Khairy al-Barhawi, a city councilman and a Sunni Arab. "But the Americans have completely misunderstood the situation. I am trying to help the Americans, and I am getting death threats. I am stuck in the middle."
The situation in Mosul, once so promising, now seems the object of drastically differing perceptions. 
American commanders say the situation is still very much in their control, and they insist that they still have the overwhelming support of the people. They say the attacks on their men, while serious, are the work of perhaps a few hundred malcontents, most of them members of Saddam Hussein's old government.
"I reject the idea that things have gone bad here," said Col. Joe Anderson, who commands about 5,000 men in the heart of the city. "Most of the Iraqis are glad we are here, and they are cooperating with us." 
Indeed, the progress in Mosul, even with the recent spate of attacks, still strikes a visitor from Baghdad as remarkable. The sidewalks are jammed with shoppers. The telephone, electricity and water networks are in good working order, thanks in large part to $33 million in projects carried out by American soldiers since April. A 28-member city council brings together the city's remarkable mix of Arabs, Christians, Kurds, Shabaks and Yazidhis. 
The current attacks in and around Mosul, which number from 6 to 10 a day, are the work of a small number of bitter-enders, the Americans said. Colonel Anderson said the Americans had identified three cells here of about 100 fighters each, a small number given the city's size. Other officers said many of the attacks had been staged by Iraqis who had come from Baghdad and other parts of the so-called Sunni triangle, the region north and west of the capital that is generating most of the violence. 
In assaults last week, American troops zeroed in on what they described as a "rat line" of houses and sympathizers stretching south toward Baghdad, a line that assisted militants in traveling north to Mosul. The Americans detained 89 suspected guerrillas in those raids, and more than 100 in others across the city. Among those recently seized, they say, are three members of Al Qaeda and two of another militant Islamic group, Ansar al-Islam. 
"What I think is that this is a case of people coming from the outside trying to spoil a good thing," Maj. Trey Cate said.
But many local Iraqis say the Americans' problems run deeper and broader. Expectations that the Americans would rapidly generate prosperity in Mosul have been met with disappointment, and vast numbers of Iraqis still find themselves unemployed. The pool of money the American military used here to employ hundreds of Iraqis for local projects has dried up, and the large sums recently approved by Congress for reconstruction have yet to arrive. 
A network of former members of Mr. Hussein's Baath Party, stretching from the universities to government offices, openly flout the Americans' edicts and, some Iraqis say, quietly support the resistance. 
"I would say that the number of people who are opposed to the Americans here numbers in the thousands, the tens of thousands," said Hunien Kadu, a professor of economics at Mosul University and a city council member. "There are deans and assistant deans who were high-ranking members of the Baath Party. There are Baathists all through the government. The Americans can't continue to let these people operate." 
Many Iraqis complained that the recent American crackdown had pushed potential supporters away. Mr. Barhawi, for instance, cited a local cleric detained on suspicion of encouraging attacks against the Americans in his weekly sermons. He said American troops had handcuffed, hooded and slapped the cleric. Word of that, he said, was helping to alienate many Iraqis here who were still more or less receptive to the American enterprise. 
The cleric, Abdul Satar al-Jawiri, was released after a search of his home turned up nothing, Mr. Barhawi said. A spokesman for the 101st Airborne said Wednesday that he could not confirm the incident. 
"I am not defending the cleric, but he was humiliated in public," Mr. Barhawi said. "Do you realize what he is going to say in his sermons now?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Mosul, where business is flourishing, Iraqis celebrated Id al-Fitr yesterday to mark the end of Ramadan. (Photo by Michael Kamber/Polaris, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAMADAN (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); SHOOTINGS (72%); HEAD INJURIES (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) Geographic Profiles; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Dexter Filkins

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq; Mosul (Iraq); Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



642 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Defendants In Drug Ring And Still Behind in Rent 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
One of them was chronically behind on his $1,150-a-month rent. Another lived with a girlfriend who has been on welfare for six years. At least one lived with his parents, and most of the others rented unadorned middle-class apartments in outer Queens or Brooklyn.
 All of them, prosecutors said Tuesday, are accused of helping to smuggle hundreds of pounds of cocaine and marijuana a year through Kennedy International Airport, in what federal officials have called one of the largest and longest-running criminal enterprises of its kind. The smuggling ring, which the police say included 20 airport luggage and cargo handlers and their accomplices, moved such large quantities of cocaine that agents called their investigation Operation Snowstorm. 
 Relatives and neighbors of the men expressed shock at the accusations yesterday, saying they never saw any outward sign of the profits the men are suspected of making through the international drug trade.
"If he is getting all this money, why are we suffering like this?" said Claudette Rampasard, who lives with Junior Barnett, one of the men, and takes care of the couple's two children in a cramped $875-a-month apartment in Jamaica, Queens.
Behind their workaday routines, the men clearly were bringing home large amounts of cash, one law enforcement official said yesterday. One of the suspects, Selwyn Smith, had a safe in his home in St. Albans, Queens, with more than $400,000 in it, the official said. Another had more than $20,000 at his home, the official added.
Along with the cash, agents seized five handguns and four vehicles in connection with the arrests Tuesday, including a Mercedes-Benz and two late-model BMW's.
The smuggling case has raised questions about airline security. Federal officials said Tuesday that all the defendants had passed background checks, which have stiffened since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
But federal prosecutors said yesterday that one of the defendants who is accused of helping mastermind the operation, Erroldo Weatherly, had several convictions on his record, including one for assault, a felony. It is not clear how Mr. Weatherly's convictions escaped scrutiny at Kennedy Airport, where a felony record is supposed to bar workers from secure areas.
 All the men arrested in the operation were Caribbean immigrants and were a close-knit group much like some Italian-American criminal organizations, the law enforcement official said. They appear to have spent some of their money partying and sent some home to the Caribbean, the official said.
"We believe we have some offshore accounts," the official said.
One of the men, Gary Lall, who went by the nickname Indian, became aware last week that he was being pursued, several days before the arrest, the official said. "We had a chopper above him, and you can hear his voice on the tape saying: 'I know they're on me. I wish they'd just pick me now,' " the official said.
 Altogether, 25 men are charged with conspiracy to import controlled substances, which carries a maximum penalty of life imprisonment and a $4 million fine. 
Two of the defendants, Mr. Lall and Cleveland Green, were arraigned Tuesday before Magistrate Judge Lois Bloom in Federal District Court in Brooklyn and released on bail of $750,000 and $500,000, respectively. At least seven others had been freed on bail as of last night.
 Dennis Johnson and Rafael Rodriguez proclaimed their innocence yesterday as they emerged to greet their families after being released on bail. Erroldo Weatherly's father, also called Erroldo Weatherly, said his son was not involved.
It was clear for years that a smuggling ring was operating at the airport, a second law enforcement official said, but agents were not able to break it until they caught a baggage handler who then began cooperating with them.
"We have a nucleus of informants now," the official said. "We take this very seriously, especially after 9/11. Today it's narcotics, tomorrow it could be explosives."
The ringleader of the smuggling ring, prosecutors have said, was Michael Adams, 32, a baggage handler with Globe Ground North American who was also known as Big Man and Bowser.
 Mr. Adams lived with his wife and two children in a two-bedroom apartment in Cambria Heights, a middle-class Queens neighborhood. His landlord, George Dorvil, said yesterday that Mr. Adams seemed like a quiet, hard-working family man, with no apparent bad habits and few guests. He was always behind on rent but never failed to pay and was polite and friendly, Mr. Dorvil said.
"This guy has been living a simple life," Mr. Dorvil said as he stared in wonder at the simple two-story white house with black trim that he shared, until yesterday, with Mr. Adams. "I've never even seen him well dressed." Robert Moore, a lawyer for Mr. Adams, declined to comment on the charges yesterday.
 A few of the other defendants occasionally showed signs of unusual wealth. One defendant, Gladstone Whyte, lived in a two-story house in Springfield Gardens, Queens, that is the nicest on the block, with stone lions and a golden-painted mailbox.
 Others do not appear to have shared their bounty with anyone. Junior Barnett often went gambling with friends, but sometimes had so little money left over that he had trouble paying the rent, said his girlfriend, Ms. Rampasard, who is unemployed and on welfare.
 And Mr. Weatherly was often forced to borrow money, said Jasmine Lily, 24, a family friend who said she loaned him $50 several times. "He's poor, very poor," she said. "You would think someone like that would be living extravagantly, but from what I saw, he was living paycheck to paycheck."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The home of one of the defendants, Gladstone Whyte, in Springfield Gardens, Queens, with decorative ironwork and stone lions. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); COCAINE (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); FELONIES (89%); CHILDREN (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); AIRLINES (76%); CANNABIS (76%); AVIATION SECURITY (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (75%); IMMIGRATION (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORISM (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Money Laundering; Kennedy International Airport (NYC) ; Cocaine and Crack Cocaine; Marijuana; Drug Abuse and Traffic

PERSON: Robert F Worth

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (87%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



643 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: School Is Haven When Children Have No Home 

BYLINE:  By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: WICHITA, Kan., Nov. 22 

 BODY:
The public school system helps Mariah Miller, a first-grade pupil at Park Elementary here, survive homelessness.
 Mariah lives with her parents and little brother at a Salvation Army shelter in downtown Wichita. This fall, a school social worker outfitted her with the school's red and blue uniform, a notebook, pencils, glue and other supplies, and recently gave her a new winter coat. A school volunteer tutors her after classes end. 
 Homeless adults get little help from the government, since many poverty relief programs were dismantled in the 1990's. But a federal law that requires local districts to seek out and enroll homeless students and provide services to them has forced public schools across the nation to become safety nets of last resort, educators and experts on the homeless said. 
With unemployment and spiraling housing costs pushing a growing number of families into homelessness, school systems across the country are seeing more and more children like Mariah living in shelters, cars or motels. Some states are reporting a nearly 50 percent increase in homeless students over the last year.
"Schools are often the only safe haven these students have when home life disintegrates," said Sue Steele, the coordinator of the Wichita Public Schools' homeless student program.
Nationwide, thousands of homeless families depend on free school meal programs to feed their children. And in compliance with the federal law, known as the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, school officials like Ms. Steele arrange for homeless students to get immunizations and tuberculosis tests, dispatch taxis to take them from shelters to school and supply items like clothing and art supplies.
Some homeless people rely on schools for basic needs in ways not foreseen by the federal law. Michael Washman, a destitute teenager in Wichita, described how he bathed each day in his school's washroom while living in a park. Penny Longhofer, principal of the Anderson Elementary School here, said a homeless couple living with three children in a van outside her school this fall volunteered frequently to work in the school cafeteria, apparently because they had nowhere else to go during the day.
The causes of the rise in homelessness vary by region. Here in Wichita, layoffs of 12,000 workers at Boeing, Raytheon and two other aircraft companies have contributed. 
In California, surging housing prices have resulted in the eviction of thousands of middle-class parents, said Leanne Wheeler, the coordinator for homeless education at the California Department of Education. Ms. Wheeler said she constantly fielded phone calls from school districts inquiring about procedures for enrolling homeless students and from parents requesting advice.
"Parents call every day and say, 'I'm homeless, I've got to get my kid into school, what should I do?' " Ms. Wheeler said.
School authorities in Amarillo, Tex., reported that they had already enrolled some 1,200 homeless students, far more than at the same time last year, said Barbara W. James, director of the Texas Homeless Education Office. Some of those students, Ms. James said, were from families traveling along Interstate 40, which runs from North Carolina past Amarillo to California.
"Their cars give out, they run out of money, and they come in to Amarillo looking for help," she said.
Experts say they can only estimate how many students are homeless across the United States because nobody has gathered nationwide data since a 2000 report to Congress by the Department of Education. That report said there were 930,000 homeless youths, 621,000 of whom were enrolled in public schools.
Dr. Martha Burt, a researcher at the Urban Institute in Washington who in 1996 led a federally financed nationwide survey of homeless people, said the department's 2000 figures undercounted the school-age homeless considerably.
Statistics from individual states suggest that their numbers are rapidly rising. In October 2002, Colorado Department of Education officials counted 4,103 homeless students enrolled in public schools there. By May, the number had risen to 5,963. 
Maryland state officials counted 5,605 school-age homeless children two years ago, but last year the number grew to 7,322.
In Oregon, officials used data from a census of people living in shelters to estimate that there were about 21,000 homeless school-age youths in the state two years ago. Using the same methodology this fall, Oregon put the number at 28,600.
"Homelessness is exploding in Oregon," said Dona Horine Bolt, coordinator of the state's homeless education program. "We're seeing people who are brand new to poverty, learning how to survive."
As they move through the state, Ms. Bolt said, homeless people use local school district offices, especially in rural towns, "as a sort of one-stop center for help." 
"They're looking for a house and some food and a job," Ms. Bolt said. "They ask not only how to enroll their children, but also about jobs or where to park the trailer for a couple of weeks or where the soup kitchen is."
The McKinney-Vento law, passed in 1987, strengthened the rights of homeless students when Congress reauthorized it in 2002. It requires each of the country's 15,000 school districts to designate a "liaison for homeless children and youth," whose duties include searching for children living in shelters, motels, campgrounds and other irregular residences, helping them enroll in school, and ensuring that they get immunizations and other medical and dental care. It also requires districts to provide transportation so that homeless children can attend the same school, even if their parents move about seeking shelter or jobs.
Federal grants to states to help comply with those mandates totaled $50 million this year. Educators say that financing falls considerably short of the need. Many school districts supplement the grants with federal money appropriated to help poor children. 
Under the law, a child who becomes homeless anywhere in the United States has the right to be enrolled in virtually any school district in the country, immediately, simply by showing up there, and can remain enrolled unless the district disproves the homeless claim.
Legal disputes have developed in Illinois and Maryland. Robert K. Wilhite, the superintendent of Thornton Fractional District 215, a suburban district bordering Chicago, said several Chicago families had sought to enroll children in his district by falsely claiming homelessness. 
In a separate case this fall, however, Illinois state officials intervened on behalf of a 14-year-old girl whose family had been evicted from a Chicago residence, persuading Mr. Wilhite's district to enroll her, said Patricia Nix-Hodes, a lawyer for the Chicago Coalition for the Homeless.
In Wichita, the liaison for the homeless, Ms. Steele, spends her days seeking out homeless children. One recent day, she identified as homeless a child living with his sick mother in the basement of a relative's house since the two lost their home in a foreclosure, and she visited a father, mother, first-grade son and seventh-grade daughter living in a motel room after being evicted. Ms. Steele arranged for a school bus to retrieve the daughter at the motel first thing each morning for her ride to a Wichita middle school, and to drop her off last, shielding the girl from embarrassment before schoolmates. 
And Ms. Steele visited Mariah's parents. Because Mr. Miller is disabled, Mariah's mother, Althea, was the sole breadwinner, earning $13.52 an hour at a Cessna plant here until her layoff in February, Ms. Miller said. Unemployment benefits ran out in May, forcing the Millers out of their rented home, in with relatives for a time, and finally into a shelter. Ms. Miller has found a job as a security guard, making $8.25 an hour, but the family owes car payments and back rent, so although she would like to spend more on her children, there is little hope of that anytime soon. 
Homelessness seems to be taking its toll on Mariah, said her teacher, Debbie Mendoza. Mariah often arrives at school seeming a bit dazed, partly because she has difficulty sleeping at the shelter, and she falls asleep at her desk. She completes most of her homework but often forgets to turn it in. Still, the Salvation Army and her school have protected Mariah from much of the harshness of homelessness suffered by adults.
As Mariah walked out of the shelter on her way to a free breakfast at Park Elementary early one morning, she waved across the street to a dozen men. Broke and homeless, they huddled against a bitter wind off the Kansas prairie.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mariah Miller in the bedroom of the Salvation Army shelter in Wichita, Kan., where she lives with her family. The public school system has provided her with a school uniform, supplies and a winter coat. (Photo by Craig Hacker for The New York Times)(pg. A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (97%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EVICTION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); REAL ESTATE (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); HOME PRICES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); TUBERCULOSIS TESTING (50%) Education and Schools; Homeless Persons; Lunch and Breakfast Programs; Tutors and Tutoring; Education and Schools

COMPANY: RAYTHEON CO (52%); BOEING CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (91%)

TICKER: RTN (NYSE) (52%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: Mariah Miller; Sam Dillon

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (94%); AMARILLO, TX, USA (79%) KANSAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Wichita (Kan)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



644 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Reports Indicate the Economy Is ContinuingIts Expansion 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The economy extended last quarter's momentum into October and November, with reports yesterday showing the biggest jump in durable goods orders in 15 months, the fewest weekly jobless claims in three years and higher consumer confidence.
 Orders for items made to last at least three years increased 3.3 percent, to $184.5 billion, the Commerce Department said in Washington. The Labor Department said jobless claims in the week that ended Saturday fell by 11,000, to 351,000, the fewest since George W. Bush became president in January 2001. 
 In other reports, a gauge of Chicago-area manufacturing rose this month to the highest level in nine years, and personal incomes rose and new-home sales held close to a record for October. Orders were rising at companies like Boeing and Dycom Industries after consumer spending propelled the economy to an annual growth rate of 8.2 percent last quarter, the fastest in 19 years. 
Personal incomes rose 0.4 percent and spending was unchanged in October, the Commerce Department said. The University of Michigan's final consumer sentiment index for November rose to 93.7 from 89.6 in October.
New homes sold at an annual pace of 1.105 million last month, down 3.5 percent, yet strong enough for the fifth-best rate on record, the Commerce Department said in separate reports. Mortgage applications rose for a second week this week and a refinancing index gained 27.8 percent, the Mortgage Bankers Association said, showing that housing may keep aiding growth.
The National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said its factory index rose this month to 64.1, the highest since February 1995, from 55 in October. The survey's measure of new orders increased to the highest since May 1994. The index, which economists watch for clues about national manufacturing, has been higher than 50, signaling expansion, for seven consecutive months.
"Improvements appeared to be reasonably broadly based," the Federal Reserve said in its latest survey of economic conditions by its 12 regional banks. "Reports received from the district banks suggest that the economy continued to expand in October and early November," said the survey, known as the beige book for the color of its cover. Several districts noted a slowdown in layoffs.
The economy is forecast to grow at a 4 percent annual pace this quarter, based on the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists this month. While slower than in the third quarter, that is faster than the average 3.6 percent during the record expansion from 1991 to 2001.
The economy will probably grow 4.5 percent in 2004, the fastest pace since 1984, according to the median estimate of a panel of 28 economists for the National Association of Business Economics, released this week.
The increase in durable goods orders followed a 2.1 percent rise in September. Excluding transportation equipment, orders rose 2.4 percent, the sixth consecutive increase. Improving orders and production suggest businesses are gaining confidence that demand will be sustained.
Machinery orders increased 1 percent last month after rising 1.5 percent in September. Communications equipment orders rose 25 percent and orders for computers and electronic products rose 4 percent last month.
Orders for transportation equipment increased 5.5 percent after a 0.1 rise in September. Bookings for motor vehicles fell 1.1 percent and aircraft orders surged 22 percent after falling 5.1 percent the previous month. 
Bookings for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft, a proxy for future business investment, rose 1.7 percent last month after rising 5.8 percent in September.
Jobless claims last week were the lowest since 339,000 in the week ended Jan. 20, 2001. The economy has created 286,000 jobs since August, the Labor Department previously reported.
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said consumer spending was $7.77 trillion in October, little changed from September. Incomes rose 0.4 percent, the most in four months, after increasing 0.3 percent.

GRAPHIC: Map/Chart: "Economy Improved in Some Regions"A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday. Minneapolis -- Residential real estate, manufacturing, agriculture, consumer spending and tourism grew. San Francisco (Includes Alaska and Hawaii) -- Tourism received a boost from an early start to the ski season, and banks reported an increase in deposits and demand for business loans. Chicago -- Businesses made more investments and added temporary workers. Comsumer spending slowed slightly. Dallas -- Economic growth increased gradually in October and early November, as businesses remain tepid about increasing their workforce and investing. Kansas City, Mo. -- Retail sales and manufacturing activity rose substantially. The cost of employee benefits continued to rise. St. Louis -- Factory closings and layoffs continue, while the service industry reported improvement and plans to hire more employees. Cleveland -- Automobile and steel producers reported increases in production, while retail sales fluctuated. Health care costs increased. Boston -- Conditions improved. Software companies and manufacturers reported an increase in demand. New York -- Housing construction and sales remained strong, and manufacturing improved. Consumer spending slowed. Philadelphia -- Department and discount stores recovered in early November after a dip in October. Auto sales also recovered. Richmond, Va. -- Manufacturers reported the largest increase in orders and shipments in the past six months. Atlanta -- The pace of growth remained the same through October and early November, and the housing market improved. Map of the United States highlights the locations listed above. (Source by Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); NEW ORDERS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); LAYOFFS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%) United States Economy; Durable Goods (Economic Indicator); Labor; Unemployment; Income; Consumer Behavior; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); United States Economy

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); DYCOM INDUSTRIES INC (56%); BOEING CO (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%) Commerce Department; Labor Department (US); University of Michigan

TICKER: DY (NYSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (56%); SIC1731 ELECTRICAL WORK (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



645 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: These Days, It's Good to Be Gold 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Gold briefly passed $400 an ounce yesterday and that might make many investors finally take notice, although gold has been in a bull market since April 2001, rising more than 50 percent in that time.
 But after two weeks of tiptoeing around $400 an ounce, gold has still not managed to breach this important psychological level convincingly. While this stuttering does not mean that gold cannot go higher, analysts say, it is a warning to investors getting in now to temper their expectations. Investors should not expect gold to repeat its recent history and rise another 50 percent, the analysts say. 
 But among the gold producers and the gold faithful who have lived though dark times -- the fall from over $800 an ounce in 1980 -- there is no worry: gold, which has been trading over $390 an ounce since Nov. 12, is surely going higher.
Even Ian C. MacDonald, manager for precious metals at the New York branch of Commerzbank and a bear on gold for 15 years, said, "The scary thing is we don't know how high this price can go."
Investors attracted by the $400 headline could benefit by taking note of what is pushing the price of gold higher and considering whether these forces have the momentum to keep the rally going.
It is also not a bad idea to listen to those analysts who argue that a small amount of gold in a portfolio, something under 5 percent, can be an effective way to diversify, regardless of the outlook for gold.
The chief argument for gold recently has been the weakness of the dollar. Pierre Lassonde, the president of the Newmont Mining Corporation, a big gold producer, argued that the price of gold is 80 percent dependent on the value of the dollar, which has fallen 12.1 percent this year against the euro, 8.3 percent against the Japanese yen and 7 percent against a broad trade-weighted index that includes all of the United States' main trading partners.
Others agree. An analyst at a big hedge fund, who insisted that he not be quoted by name, put the argument bluntly. "I don't think supply and demand matter," he said. "What matters is the esteem people have for paper money and what we are seeing here is a flight to hard assets -- gold."
This inverse relationship of gold to the value of the dollar has sometimes worked well, but not always. It has done pretty well, however, during gold's new bull market. The dollar has been in a steady decline against the euro since July 2001 while the dollar has been falling against the yen since February 2002.
At the same time, it may have been the euro's inability since May to pass the $1.20 level against the dollar that has held gold back from $400 an ounce. For example, when the dollar shot up 1.2 percent against the euro on Monday on expectations of stronger United States economic growth, gold fell 1.1 percent, or $4.50 an ounce, to $391.50.
With the dollar falling 1 percent against the euro yesterday, gold surged $9.60, to $402 an ounce, only its second moment over $400 on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange since early 1996. Gold hit $400.70 in intraday trading on Nov. 19. But gold futures for February delivery finished yesterday below the $400 barrier, at $398.00 an ounce.
Gold aficionados think the dollar will continue to fall. They argue that the Bush administration wants a weaker dollar and that confidence in the dollar is being hurt by American foreign policy. The current account deficit, measuring the balance of trade in goods and services with the rest of the world, is nearing $500 billion, and that is also a drag on the dollar.
Yet, if the economy does manage to continue to grow modestly -- after the stunning 8.2 percent growth at an annual rate in the third quarter that was announced on Tuesday -- the dollar might not fall all that much more, limiting the upside for gold from here.
Other factors often cited as a positive for gold -- political instability and global terrorism -- have not given a boost to gold recently. After the truck-bombing of two synagogues in Istanbul on Saturday, Nov. 15, the price of gold still dropped $6.50 an ounce in trading Monday. And after the truck-bombing of the British consulate and a British bank in Istanbul on Nov. 20, the price of gold fell $1.20.
Another force driving gold's price is trading by speculators. They have been betting heavily on a rising price of gold. 
Consider the net of the futures contracts to buy and sell gold outstanding on Comex on Sept. 2. The net equaled almost 123,000 contracts, to buy about 12.3 million ounces of gold, the biggest weekly position by far in the Commodity Futures Trading Commission data going back to 1983.
But since then, these positions have been trimmed, with the net buy contracts totaling 93,160 as of Nov. 18. While this is the ninth-biggest weekly net position, the shrinkage may be another reason gold has failed to break through $400.
Another positive for gold that has been tempered is the proposal before the Securities and Exchange Commission for a so-called exchange-traded fund for gold. Sponsored by the World Gold Council, this fund would allow retail investors to buy gold by itself through their brokers in amounts as small as a tenth of an ounce. Currently, the only easily obtainable exposure to gold is in stocks of gold producers.
Some analysts argue that the price of gold may already have run up in anticipation of this buying. But the S.E.C. has not yet approved the proposal. "I am sure getting tired of waiting," said John Hathaway, a gold fund portfolio manager at Tocqueville Asset Management.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gold being mined in Queensland, Australia, by the Newmont Mining Corporation. Since April 2001, gold has been in a bull market, recently flirting with $400 an ounce. (Photo by Bloomberg News) Graph: "Bull Rush"Gold prices have rebounded from their recent low in early 2001. Graph tracks the weekly near-month spot price of gold since 2001. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); EURO (85%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Gold; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: NEWMONT MINING CORP (66%); COMMERZBANK AG (56%)

TICKER: NEM (NYSE) (66%); CZB (LSE) (56%); CBK (FRA) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (66%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (78%) AUSTRALIA (90%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



646 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: The Perfect Fit of a Marching Band; 
An American Riddle Leads to a Pennsylvania Shoe Factory

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: LEBANON, Pa., Nov. 20 

 BODY:
The perfect marching band shoe pitches the toe forward to foster the seamless, balletlike movement called the roll step. It might be black if your band is prone to sloppy footwork, because dark colors can mask many a mistake, or white if you have the chops. For marching under the lights on a Friday night, glossy with a patent-leather sheen is best.
 Why such a shoe needs to exist in the first place is another matter. No technical manual exists to describe the faraway look you can sometimes see in a drum major's eyes as he or she salutes the crowd, or the burning intensity of the low brass section, its members so focusedand suffused with the fire of being 16 that they can make you cry just for the beauty of it. 
 But those larger, deeper questions -- the why of marching band -- somehow became more meaningful this November. My twin 17-year-old sons will march their last roll steps in a Thanksgiving Day football game after five years in a suburban New Jersey high school band that shaped their teenage years. As the closing grace notes of that moment grew near, I found myself looking for the source of what had touched them. 
So I made a pilgrimage here, to the land of the Dinkle.
Most people have probably never heard of Dinkles shoes, but in the marching band culture -- though in truth you can probably just shorten that to "cult" -- Dinkles are a mysterious, omnipresent constant. If the universe hums a deep B flat, as cosmologists contend, then the underlying tone of all those Fridays and Saturdays on the gridiron and the uncounted hours of practice -- at least in my boys' school -- was the muffled heel-toe step of a Dinkle.
There are other obscure marching shoe brands -- Drillmaster, Style Plus and Director's Showcase among them. It's a cutthroat business, with nearly 23,000 high school marching bands across the country, and perhaps 1,000 alone within a three- or four-hour drive of Manhattan, each with 90 to 100 players, on average. Asian-made imports dominate. 
But Dinkles are the last major band shoe still manufactured in the United States -- though the company's cheaper lines are now imported, too -- and for my sons, Paul and Anthony, who marched in Dinkles every year but one, the name became a defining symbol of their experience. If anyone possessed the knowledge of what marching band is about, I thought, it would be the people at Dinkles. 
Shoes, logically enough, also carry a greater symbolic weight for bands that travel by foot. For many years the seniors in Syracuse University's marching band, for example, have been bound by custom to abandon their band shoes in some spectacular, public way after the last performance of their careers as a rite of passage. Sometimes, a whole tree would be decorated with laced-together shoes, hung like fruit.
So I was ready for epiphanies on the Dinkles factory floor. As in the scene when Dorothy had her moment of truth with the Great Oz, a curtain would be pulled aside and there -- ipso facto, sis-boom-bah -- the secret beating heart of marching band would be revealed.
The factory is in a century-old bakery building hard by a railroad track in this depressed old mill town about three hours west of New York City, and it's easy to miss. A small sign out front simply says "Up-Front Footwear," and only when you step inside do the distinctive smells of shoe leather and adhesive make it clear you're in the right place.
Jerry and Jeff Savoca, a father-and-son team who own the company, sat down at a little table and poured coffee. They talked about how they had named Dinkles for a character in the comic strip Funky Winkerbean -- Harry L. Dinkle, the gung-ho marching band director at the mythical Westview High School created by Tom Batiuk. 
Jerry, 67, described how his father, Sam, made the family's first pair of majorette boots in the early 40's, and then nagged him for the next three decades to get back into the band-shoe market until he finally agreed in the early 1970's. Jeff, 38, now the company's president, entered the family business after college. 
Out in the factory, the 10 employees -- 6 more work in a leather-sewing shop in Scranton -- were gluing and cutting. Trains periodically roared past, rattling the windows.
It was becoming quite clear by then that the Savocas had no answers to the metaphysics of marching band existence. They certainly knew about shoes, and how economic life is reflected through band footwear. For example, the booming 1990's were salad days for the top-of-the-line leather Dinkle Vanguard, which sells for nearly $30, while tougher times have marked a shift to the $20 Glide.
But in the end, they had only a piece of the great marching band story: their own. Their family had tapped into something elemental, they said -- a piece of old-fashioned, innocent small-town Americana that had hung on somehow despite all the changes of accelerated modern life, but they really couldn't say for sure why any of it was so. 
The trip to Pennsylvania, it seemed, had been a fool's quest. A Dinkle, to paraphrase Freud, was just a shoe. Better to have gone to the Midwest, or Texas, places where the passion for football and brass bands is more visceral and vital than in the Northeast.
But then the Savocas began talking about Jeff Byrne, a band director from Long Island who visited the factory last summer on his vacation. Another pilgrim! And he was not alone. About once a week through the summer, it turns out, a band director drops by, usually unannounced, just to poke his or her head in the door to say hello and breathe in the Dinkles factory air for a bit.
At least it was a lead. So I took down names and the next day, back in New York, I began calling. Mr. Byrne, the co-director of bands at Paul D. Schreiber High School in Port Washington, said he thinks marching band lives on not because of tradition or anything like that, but because of the influence of people like Bennett Lentczner.
Mr. Lentczner was Mr. Byrne's marching band director 42 years ago at North Shore High in Glen Head on Long Island. Mr. Byrne said he became a teacher and band leader entirely because of Mr. Lentczner. If anyone knew the answers to the why of marching band, his old teacher would.
Mr. Lentczner, now retired and reached by telephone at his home in West Virginia, said that as far as he's been able to determine, bands just create a sense of community -- it's as simple and as mysterious as that. And the implications of that community then spill out over time. At least a dozen of his former students became music teachers or band directors, he said. And the fingers of that pattern extend into the past as well. Mr. Lentczner himself marched for DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx in the mid-1950's. 
"It just comes from the daily working towards the common goal, and the realization that the product in the end is no better than what the weakest person can contribute," he said. "The kids belong to something, and it puts them in touch with what it means to be human."
Mr. Batiuk, the creator of Harry Dinkle, said in a telephone interview that Harry was inspired by the band director at Midview High School just outside Cleveland, where Mr. Batiuk marched and played trombone in the early 1960's.
"We were never incredibly hip or cool; we were band geeks," Mr. Batiuk said. "But if you have a strong, forceful individual, he or she will make it the coolest thing in the school."
And so perhaps that is as profound as marching band gets: Harry Dinkle lives on. The traditions of one season -- including and especially the harsh ones like wearing thermal underwear under one's uniform to cut the wind chill and then commiserating on the bus over the misery of it all -- create the seeds of an unknown season to come. Deep philosophy it's not.
But that's whatI'll be thinking Thanksgiving Day at halftime when the Westfield High School Blue Devil Marching Band from Westfield, N.J., takes the field: not about the past and the things that brought us all to this moment, but about the future, and where all those miles in Dinkles might lead.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rows of Dinkles band shoes at the Up-Front Footwear factory in Lebanon, Pa. A top-of-the-line pair costs $30.; Jerry Savoca, left, and his son Jeff, who own the company that makes Dinkles marching shoes. (Photographs by Kalim A. Bhatti for The New York Times)(pg. B1) Map of Pennsylvania/New Jersey highlighting Lebanon: The Dinkles shoe factory is a leading producer of band shoes. (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR MFG (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); FOOTWEAR (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); THANKSGIVING (67%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%) Education and Schools; Factories and Industrial Plants; Shoes and Boots; Music; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: Dinkles (Co)

PERSON: Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



647 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Ford Chairman, Now Confident Of Turnaround, Expects a Profit 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Despite billions in losses over the last few years, a shrinking market share worldwide and falling credit ratings, the Ford Motor Company is meeting its turnaround targets and is poised to return to profitability and make a run at environmental leadership, Ford's chairman and chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., says. 
 "We have gone from the intensive-care unit, where everything was critical and we were putting out fires," Mr. Ford said in an interview on Tuesday marking the end of the second year of his five-year plan to save the company that his great-grandfather founded a century ago. "I really look to the next phase now, in terms of us gaining leadership and being the kind of company that I'd like us to be, and I feel we're poised now to be able to do that." 
 Mr. Ford, 46, who sometimes comes across as an environmentalist trapped in the body of an industrialist, remains committed to making his company, by next year, the world's third automaker to sell a hybrid electric vehicle. Honda and Toyota already sell hybrid sedans, which get better mileage by supplementing their internal-combustion engines with electric motors. The Ford Escape hybrid, which is to be introduced next summer, is expected to be the first gasoline-and-electric sport utility vehicle. 
Yet he continues to be criticized by some environmental groups, most recently because the company said it would not meet Mr. Ford's pledge to improve the fuel economy of its S.U.V.'s by 25 percent. 
"Their role, and it's a useful one, is to keep pushing all of us in society to go further faster," he said of the criticism. "I'm not sure I'll ever see the day where everybody will be happy with what we're doing. So I judge it against my own values and where I think this company ought to be headed."
Mr. Ford's environmental sympathies have been tempered by the difficulties he faces in turning around Ford as a business, some of them shared by other American companies. He cited health care as the biggest competitive impediment for domestic automakers, adding that the Medicare bill passed by Congress would serve only as a Band-Aid. 
He said that a national health care system, in some form, could help level the playing field with Japanese and European competitors based in countries with national health systems. For the Detroit automakers, health costs are enormous and rising fast. They are most acute for General Motors -- the world's largest automaker and the largest buyer of drugs like Viagra and Lipitor -- at $1,200 a vehicle produced in the United States. One analyst has called the Big Three "H.M.O.'s on wheels."
Mr. Ford said that "employers in this country, and particularly manufacturing employers, can't compete internationally with this burden around our collective necks."
"It's our biggest single issue and it's getting bigger each year," he said, speaking of the American auto producers. "At some point, it's going to be too big for all of us to handle."
He expressed hope that the Big Three could pursue the matter together and said he considered health costs a problem far exceeding Ford's pension plan, which had an unfunded liability of $15.6 billion last year; Ford's medical liability for retirees was $30.3 billion at the time.
"Pensions we'll handle fine," Mr. Ford said. "We could fund our pension plan completely tomorrow with all the cash we have, and be fine. Our pension plan this year is up dramatically and, if the discount rate rises, all of a sudden our pension starts to look pretty darn good. I don't want to dismiss it, but it's a very manageable issue. But the health care issue to me is one where I don't see a solution."
After losing a total of $6.4 billion in 2001 and 2002 and embarking on a cost-cutting regimen that he described as "draconian," Mr. Ford and his lieutenants have said they expect the company to return to profitability this year. Ford has forecast an operating profit of roughly $1.8 billion, almost entirely from its financing operations. Analysts said they expected Ford to report a net profit, its size depending on any special charges in the fourth quarter. 
But there is no shortage of skepticism. While Ford has considerable liquidity and is meeting its initial turnaround targets, some analysts and investors wonder what in its future makes Ford an appealing investment.
The most recent doubt was expressed by Standard & Poor's, which earlier this month downgraded the company's debt to the lowest of 10 investment grades, one notch above a junk-bond rating. Among the problems that S.&P. cited was the lack of diversity in Ford's earnings. Despite operations around the world, its profits are almost entirely pinned on North American light truck sales and the performance of the financing division, Ford Credit. 
"S.U.V.'s and pickups account for a highly disproportionate share of Ford's earnings," wrote Scott Sprinzen, a Standard & Poor's credit analyst, in a recent report explaining the ratings downgrade. "Moreover, these product segments are experiencing ongoing intensification of competition from a proliferation of new products."
Many of those competing products are coming from more financially robust foreign manufacturers like Toyota, Honda and Nissan. On Monday, Nissan enters the full-size pickup truck market with the Titan, joining Toyota in moving in on Detroit's last largely unchallenged bastion -- full-size pickuptrucks.
Ford executives bristled at the credit downgrading and noted that the two other big ratings agencies, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch, rate Ford higher. 
Ford anticipated the competition in pickup trucks by redesigning its F-150, the most popular vehicle sold in the United States. At the same time, Mr. Ford is redoubling efforts to return the company's European operations to profitability and to make the Premier Automotive Group, -- its collection of European luxury brands including Jaguar, Volvo, Aston Martin and Land Rover -- a profit center with margins approaching those of BMW and Mercedes. Analysts say that will be difficult to achieve but is crucial to Mr. Ford's success. 
Under the turnaround plan, the luxury-car division is expected to provide a bit less than a third of the company's profit within three years. Through the first nine months of the year, the division had a $56 million operating profit, in contrast to a $352 million loss in the period a year earlier. 
This is a long way from getting investors excited about a company with $28 billion in worldwide revenue. To turn its luxury cars into a significant source of profit, Ford has a difficult balancing act: make the disparate brands more alike under the hood while keeping them distinct above.
"Ultimately, to get the margins of the very best in the luxury field, we're going to have to realize these synergies among the brands," Mr. Ford said.
J. Bruce Clark, a credit analyst at Moody's, said, "They've made some notable progress, particularly in the area of reducing costs, and they've made some progress in beginning to boost the image of the brands and the perceptions of consumers."
"Unfortunately," he added, "one of the problems is that the market is more difficult, and a lot of those benefits have not fallen to the bottom line."
Ford stock, which closed as high as $30.71 in 2001, fell to $6.60 in March. It has since recovered somewhat, closing on Wednesday at $12.92. 
For Mr. Ford, as for the other Fords who preceded him in the executive suite, this is an intensely personal rescue operation. He has so far taken stock options in lieu of a salary and does not yet know what form his compensation will take in 2004. 
He acknowledged that the company could not continue to rely on a single product as its lifeline, as it has from the Model T to the Explorer.
"There are no sanctuaries in this business anymore," he said, "and it really forces discipline in the system. If you look at the cost we've taken out of this company in the last three years, it's staggering. And there's more to come."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Clay Ford Jr., the chairman, congratulating workers last week at the Ford Rouge plant in Dearborn, Mich., on the 300 millionth vehicle to be produced there. The huge factory, long known as River Rouge, has been renamed by the automaker. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); SEDANS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (72%); HYBRID VEHICLES (72%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (65%); HEALTH CARE (65%); MEDICARE (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); LEGISLATION (60%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (56%) Automobiles; Medicine and Health; Biographical Information; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor; Fringe Benefits; Electric Vehicles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO (F) ; Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: Danny Hakim; William Clay Jr Ford

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



648 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Does Medicare or private insurance do a better job of controlling health care costs?

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine, and he also teaches at Cooper Union and New School University. His new book is "Why Economies Grow," from Basic Books and the Century Foundation. E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
GIVEN the passage this week of Medicare legislation, which would privatize much more of this vast program than anyone expected, you might think there would be plenty of evidence that such a shift would reduce the growth of health care costs over time. After all, that is the main reason the bitterly fought bill passed. 
 Many in Congress believe that Medicare, the nation's 38-year-old health program for the elderly, will simply not be affordable once baby boomers reach retirement age. 
 What started as only a program to pay for prescription drugs for the elderly has now turned into a large step toward re-engineering Medicare itself. The new act will heavily subsidize private plans to compete with Medicare, provide tax breaks for individuals to buy private insurance, develop a pilot program to force all Medicare services to compete with private insurance by 2010, and forgo using Medicare's size to negotiate lower prices for drugs. 
"We just think that competition through the private sector, through bulk purchasing and negotiation, is a more effective means to hold down prices," Senator Bill Frist, the Republican majority leader, said earlier this week. 
The problem is that 30 years of comparisons between Medicare and private health insurance provide no evidence for Senator Frist's assertion. To the contrary, the best analysis to date suggests that Medicare may well hold down health care costs better than private industry does. 
In a study for the Urban Institute, Marilyn Moon and Cristina Boccuti separated payments made by private health insurance plans and those made by Medicare for comparable services, like those to doctors and hospitals, and for equipment. From 1970 to 2000, the researchers found that private insurance payments rose an average of 10 percent a year, and Medicare payments by 9.4 percent a year. Over 30 years, this small annual difference accumulated rapidly, and by 2000, private health insurance payments were 20 percent higher than Medicare payments. 
Ms. Moon and Ms. Boccuti concede that the health care data on which such studies are drawn are not detailed enough to make fine distinctions. But give or take a few tenths of a percentage point, what remains clear is that private health insurers have demonstrated no significant ability to control costs better than Medicare.
Even many advocates of privatization concede the point. One objection to the Urban Institute study that has merit, for example, has been made by Joseph Antos, the American Enterprise Institute's chief health economist. He points out that the analysis does not fully account for the expanded services of private health insurance. In effect, he notes, you get more coverage for those higher private payments. 
Also, others point out that there is evidence that hospitals have been shifting costs from Medicare, where prices are controlled, to private insurance. 
But Mr. Antos, in turn, acknowledges that his own estimate of the increased "generosity" of private plans cannot accurately be derived from the available data, and any conclusions about the competing costs are imprecise."I don't like Marilyn Moon's numbers, and I don't like mine," he told me in a phone conversation.
What, then, is driving privatization efforts among informed advocates like Mr. Antos? He and others say the main advantage of letting the private market run health care is that innovative products will be developed that are, as he says, "better at matching what I want with what I can get." In shorthand, privatization may offer more choice. 
Mr. Antos argues that the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program is a good model for this -- far better than the new legislation, in fact. That program subsidizes premiums for all federal workers to buy a range of private plans of their choice. 
But it is also clear -- and again Mr. Antos concedes the point -- that Medicare and the benefits program cover very different populations. The federal employees program is largely for currently employed workers, not the less healthy elderly. Moreover, when beneficiaries retire, they are typically covered first by Medicare, and the federal benefits program merely provides supplemental payments. 
But the main concern is that such private programs run a substantial risk of simply leaving many retirees out in the cold. Private health insurers would have every incentive to devise good plans for the elderly only if the beneficiaries could afford a high fee or had good health records. It would not be as profitable to sell plans to the elderly who are prone to poor health, as indeed a large proportion of them are. As a result, despite competition and government subsidies, many of the poorer or less healthy elderly would probably be left with plans that provide inadequate care. 
Mark Merlis, a health care consultant, finds evidence that just such "risk selection" already goes on in the federal benefits program, which is so praised by privatization advocates. Earlier studies that claim the opposite, he says, are flawed. A study by the Health Care Financing Administration, now the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, also found "a clear bias" toward healthier beneficiaries in Medicare Plus Choice, a program that is already served by private plans. 
Some in Congress may well know that the evidence does not support any assertion that the privatization they are undertaking will reduce costs.
Perhaps some people, like Mr. Antos, have an honest faith that private competition and the magic of the market will provide adequate health care for all the elderly, even the sick and poor, no matter how little they can afford to pay in a private market, even with government subsidies. But there is little in the nation's health care experience to support such optimism. 
If Congress and the president keep going in this direction, it will undermine the philosophy of protection and inclusiveness that guided the passage of Medicare in the first place, and so much of the rest of America's social legislation. Is this a decision Americans understand they are making? They are probably taking for granted that Congress has done the research. It hasn't.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Private, but Not Better"Medicare has done a better job of checking the rise in its health care payments than private insurers. Graph tracks the rise in Medicare payments and private health insurers payments since 1970. (Source by Urban Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); ELDER HEALTH (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); AGING (76%); DRUG PRICES (75%); INSURANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%) Medicine and Health; Research; Medicare; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Privatization; Finances

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: Jeff Madrick

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



649 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Financial District Security Getting New Look, Welcomed by Businesses 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
As public space, the eight blocks around downtown's greatest crossroads -- Wall and Broad Streets, the front yard of the New York Stock Exchange, Federal Hall National Memorial and the original headquarters of J. P. Morgan & Company --never fully recovered from Sept. 11, 2001.
 In the name of security, pickup trucks are parked crosswise at seven key intersections to block and control traffic. Racklike metal barricades around the Stock Exchange have kept pedestrians penned in like sheep. Until Tuesday, a concrete Jersey barrier at the mouth of Wall Street faced Trinity Church. 
 But in recent days, the metal barricades were replaced with a chest-high steel fence, made to look like wrought iron and decked with evergreen garlands and red ribbons. The security line was pulled in to allow pedestrians about 20 feet more room on Broad Street and 10 feet more room on Wall Street.
And yesterday, standing on a platform in the middle of Broad Street, Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg officially declared an end to the era of what the governor called "obtrusive, obnoxious security measures."
With dozens of bystanders watching from the other side of the new fence, the mayor and the governor unveiled a banner hanging from the facade of the Stock Exchange. Three giant watercolor renderings showed concepts for future streetscapes, including a long fountain in frontof the exchange like those outside the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The fountain would double as a barrier.
By spring, officials promised, there will be no more pairs of trucks parked to block intersections along Broadway and Pine, William and Beaver Streets. These trucks have created an extended security zone centered on the exchange.
What will probably replace the vans everywhere but Broadway are retractable, wedgelike devices, recessed in the roadbed, that are commonly known as Delta barriers, said Stefan Pryor, chief of staff of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, which is financing the $10 million streetscape program. The corporation is designing the project with the City Planning Department, in collaboration with other agencies and Rogers Marvel Architects.
Ultimately, Mr. Pryor said, the operable barriers may give way to even less intrusive security devices cloaked as lampposts, benches, even the protective guards around street trees.
At the two Broadway intersections, the trucks will probably be replaced by metal posts known as bollards, some of them retractable to allow the passage of emergency vehicles. 
"We believe we're doing this without the slightest compromise in the security that we need in this country and in this city," Mayor Bloomberg said. "The world still is a dangerous place, but we have to be able to go about our business and leave security up to the professionals."
The relief is not coming too soon for those who live and work around the exchange. In the last year, seven businesses failed on Broad Street between Beaver Street and Exchange Place, within the blockaded zone, said Julie Menin, president of Wall Street Rising, a nonprofit neighborhood coalition.
"Finally, the financial core of New York is going to have the aesthetic grandeur that the area really deserves," she said. "It will no longer look like a war zone." Ms. Menin said she had heard visitors saying to one another: "What happened? This is Wall Street. How could it look like this?"
Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, also welcomed the new measures. "Balancing security against livability -- and blending the two -- looks easy," he said. "But it wasn't."
There is a natural tension between security officials, who prefer the broadest zones around buildings that might be terrorist targets, and planners, who are trying to ensure the smooth movement of traffic and easy public access to the same buildings, many of them among the city's most important landmarks.
But those who attended yesterday's ceremony stressed that the streetscape project had been a cooperative process. "I wouldn't use the word 'tension'; I'd use the word 'synergy,' " said Deputy Chief John J. Colgan of the Police Department. "It was a well-reasoned discussion by people of good will."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A steel fence and parked trucks are among the security barriers that have been set up in, and around, the center of the financial district. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) Chart: "Security Zone Around Stock Exchange"An eight-block area bordered by Pine, William and Beaver Streets and Broadway has been a security zone since Sept.11, 2001. Map shows trucks blocking street and the steel fence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HIJACKING (76%); BONDS (75%); TERRORISM (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%) Area Planning and Renewal; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



650 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Drug Industry Seeks to Sway Prices Overseas 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Having beaten back price controls on prescription drugs in the United States, the American pharmaceutical industry is trying to roll them back overseas, with help from the administration and Congress. 
 In talks over a free trade agreement with Australia, American officials are pressing to water down the system under which the Australian government negotiates the prices it pays for prescription drugs, Mark Vaile, the Australian minister for trade, said here Wednesday. Mr. Vaile said that the American negotiators had raised this "in amongst a range of issues, not as a core issue." 
 If successful, the United States could use this agreement as a benchmark for trade deals with other rich nations. Loosening price controls is a priority for the drug industry, which gets most of its profits in the United States and argues that prices here could be lower if other nations paid their share of the cost of developing drugs. 
Mr. Vaile, in a briefing for reporters, said that his government would stand firm against any terms that would affect "the ability of the Australian government to provide inexpensive medicine to its citizens."
He met here this week with Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, and confirmed that the issue would be on the agenda for formal talks between the countries in Washington next week. The negotiators have set a Dec. 31 deadline for completing an agreement.
Analysts say that the drug issue could be part of the horse trading over Australia's desire to export more agricultural products to the United States and Washington's push to ease access to Australian markets for the American entertainment and service industries.
The legislation passed by Congress this week to establish a prescription drug benefit in the Medicare program specifically forbids the government to use its influence to negotiate lower drug prices. That provision was a top goal of the drug industry in its lobbying on the measure. 
The Medicare bill also requires the Bush administration to apprise Congress on progress toward opening Australia's drug pricing system. Drug industry executives said that provision was a sign of how badly their backers on Capitol Hill want to see trade agreements used to challenge foreign governments' price-control systems, especially when Americans are flocking to Canada to buy inexpensive medicine. 
In the free trade talks, drug industry executives said, the United States is asking that Australia agree that its Pharmaceutical Benefits System pay higher prices for new medicines and make other changes in how it sets the prices of prescription drugs.
"This is all going on in this larger context of growing unrest in the United States that other countries are not paying their share of the cost of pharmaceutical research," said Ian Spatz, vice president for public policy at Merck & Company. 
Officials in Mr. Zoellick's office said that no formal proposal had been put in writing. "What we are looking at are ways to reward innovative medicine and to promote transparency," said a senior American trade official. 
Dr. Mark B. McClellan, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, said in a speech in September that since the benefits of American drug innovations are global, the costs of the research and development of the drugs should be global as well.
"The United States is now covering most of these costs of developing a new drug to the point where it can be used by the population of the world," Dr. McClellan said. "But it is clear to me that we cannot carry the lion's share of this burden for much longer."
A month's supply of Lipitor, a cholesterol-lowering drug, that costs about $120 in the United States costs about half as much at drugstores in Canada and Italy -- two nations that, like Australia, have government price controls. The price difference is even bigger for Prevacid, a heartburn drug, and Paxil, an antidepressant, according to a recent informal survey of drugstores in the three countries.
But rather than demand an increase in foreign spending on research and development, as some specialists have suggested, the administration is asking that countries agree to pay American drug companies more for the medicines they buy for their government health programs. 
Mark Weisbrot, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a research center in Washington, criticized the American strategy.
"This is a terrible extension of the inefficiency and inequity of our own system," Mr. Weisbrot said.
"The administration is right that something has to change," he said. "But it should be here, not in countries with an effective method to finance pharmaceuticals for their citizens."
The pharmaceutical industry disagrees. The World Trade Organization now enforces intellectual property rights, including drug patents, in large part because of industry pressure.
And though the United States bowed to pressure and agreed to help poor nations buy generic medicines through exemptions from trade rules, the drug companies contend that wealthy nations use the negotiating power of their national health systems to demand unfair, arbitrary prices.
Mr. Vaile, however, said that the issue had no place in trade talks dedicated to opening markets, because American pharmaceutical companies face no trade barriers in Australia.
"Any American drug company can sell in Australia, and they can sell to the P.B.S. scheme," said Mr. Vaile, referring to the Australian drug benefit program.
Like Americans, Australians will go to the polls next year, and any serious tampering with the health benefit system could be a liability to the Liberal Party of Prime Minister John Howard. 
Tony Abbott, the minister of health, said on Australia's Channel 7 television this month that "the American drug companies don't like the P.B.S. because the government uses its position as a massive purchaser of drugs to keep prices down -- and that's the way it should be." 
Mr. Vaile disputed contentions by the American pharmaceutical industry that Australians do not pay their fair share of research costs or that Australia can provide low-cost medicines to its citizens only by taking advantage of American consumers.
"The Australian taxpayer also pays for research and development," he said, noting that the government has a $500 million medical research budget. "But it is different in Australia. We are a differently structured society."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister John Howard of Australia and President Bush spoke with reporters after meeting on Sunday. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); DRUG PRICES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY (78%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICARE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); AGRICULTURE (50%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Law and Legislation; Medicare; Wage and Price Controls; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Lobbying and Lobbyists; Medicine and Health; International Trade and World Market; Research

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%) Food and Drug Administration

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (84%); MRK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (77%); JOHN HOWARD (57%) George W (Pres) Bush; Mark (Min) Vaile; Mark B (Comr) Mcclellan; Elizabeth Becker; Robert B Zoellick

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) United States; Australia

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



651 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Hardware: Tech DataBeats Sales Estimates 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
 Shares of Tech Data Corporation, one of the largest computer distributors in the world, rose more than 11 percent after the company predicted an increase in sales this quarter higher than analysts had expected. Tech Data gained $3.60, to $36.13, after rising as high as $37.50. 
The stock had risen 21 percent this year after dropping 38 percent last year. Tech Data's chief executive, Steven A. Raymund, said in a conference call on Tuesday that United States companies are starting to spend more on information technology. Tech Data, based in Clearwater, Fla., will have sales for the fourth quarter, ending in January, as much as 15 percent higher than a year earlier, Mr. Raymund said. He added that spending for information technology "will grow at a rate somewhat faster than the overall economy, maybe as much as twice as fast in real terms." Tech Data is the second-largest computer distributor, behind Ingram Micro Inc.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the share price of Tech Data Corp. since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES PROJECTIONS (91%); COMPUTING EQUIPMENT WHOLESALERS (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); EXECUTIVES (55%) 

COMPANY: TECH DATA CORP (94%); INGRAM MICRO INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: TECH DATA CORP (TECD) ; Tech Data Corp

TICKER: TECD (NASDAQ) (94%); IM (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%) SIC5045 COMPUTERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2003 



652 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
36 Hours Corpus Christi, Tex.

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
 IN the late 1800's, developers from New York announced plans to make Corpus Christi a "Chicago of the Southwest" with the construction of a deep-water port connected to the rest of Texas and neighboring states by an elaborate network of rail lines. Fortunately, their idea failed. Corpus Christi, which means "Body of Christ" in Latin, eventually expanded into a city of 270,000 but has remained a laid-back playground destination on the Gulf Coast. Bathed in sunlight (winter temperatures in the 70's and 80's) and lined with palm trees, Corpus Christi is where the varied cultures and subcultures of South Texas -- Tejano, Anglo, rancher, wildcatter, beach bum, entrepreneur, seaman and many others -- come together next to the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Even though a port was eventually built -- and remains among the busiest in the nation, ferrying cotton, sorghum, petroleum and shrimp -- Corpus Christi retains the feeling of a place that prefers to be far from the hustle of bigger cities. SIMON ROMERO

Friday

6 p.m.

1. Looking at the Lexington
Breathe in the salty sea breeze and relax with a drink on the patio at Pier 99 (2822 North Shoreline Boulevard, 361-887-0764), a restaurant and bar overlooking the U.S.S. Lexington, a retired World War II aircraft carrier that has been turned into a naval aviation museum (2914 North Shoreline Boulevard, 361-888-4873). The view of the carrier from afar, bathed in fluorescent blue light, is a reminder of Corpus Christi's fascination with the sea.

8 p.m.

2. Longhorn Dining
If you have a soft spot for restaurants with panoramic beach views, head to the Republic of Texas Bar and Grill (900 North Shoreline Boulevard, 361-886-3515), a double-decker steakhouse on the 20th floor of the Bayfront Tower of the Omni Corpus Christi Hotel. As you cut into your New York strip steak ($32), you can gaze at a coastline that has attracted adventurers for centuries, including the 16th-century shipwrecked Spanish chronicler Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca.

Saturday

8 a.m.

3. Java Jolt
There's nothing like a leisurely breakfast to prepare you for the Saturday ahead. The booths at Agua Java (320C Williams Street, 361-882-0865) are just the place to read The Corpus Christi Caller-Times while eating a cranberry-orange scone ($1.49) and sipping a cafe del dia ($1.94). A quick stroll around the surrounding neighborhood provides a glimpse of downtown Corpus Christi, an eclectic mixture of oyster bars, tattoo parlors, nightclubs and kite, surf and antiques shops.

10 a.m.

4. Head for North Padre
Padre Island National Seashore (20402 Park Road 22, 361-949-8173), part of one of the nation's largest undeveloped barrier islands, is about a 20-minute drive southeast of Corpus Christi. A walking trail takes visitors through grasslands; visitors also can roam sand dunes and mud flats. The lucky few may be able to see wildlife like kangaroo rats and peregrine falcons. Note: this park is not to be confused with South Padre Island, the famous spring break destination a three-hour drive to the south.

Noon

5. A Different Taste
Steaming hot nan (flat bread) accompanies the lunch buffet ($5.99) at Taj Mahal (601 North Shoreline Boulevard, 361-904-0800), a friendly Indian restaurant where the excellent and reasonably priced menu offers a break from the Tex-Mex fare that is common throughout South Texas.

1 p.m.

6. Beach Victorians
Stroll through Heritage Park (1601 North Chaparral Street, 361-883-0639) for a glimpse of Corpus Christi's past. The Victorian homes preserved in this area evoke a time when immigrants from Europe and other parts of the United States came to Texas and put the city on the map. For instance, historical markers in front of the former homes of S. Julius Lichtenstein and Simon Gugenheim describe how merchants built business networks in Corpus Christi, leaving behind these homes with spanning gabled wings and tri-faceted porches. The restored Jalufka-Govatos House is used for offices and meetings.

2:30 p.m.

7. Selena Forever
Unwind with a stroll along the city's sea wall, stopping at the monument to Selena (the intersection of Shoreline Boulevard and Peoples Street), the Tejano music star who was killed in 1995 by the founder of her first fan club. Selena Quintanilla Perez, born in nearby Lake Jackson, Tex., and raised in Corpus Christi, remains a towering cultural icon in the city. (There is also a local museum dedicated to her, but it is closed on the weekends.)

3:15 p.m.

8. A Philip Johnson Museum
The building housing the Art Museum of South Texas, (1902 North Shoreline Boulevard, 361-825-3500), overshadows almost everything in it. Designed by the architect Philip Johnson and completed in 1972, the 30,000-square-foot structure, made out of white concrete and plaster, is equipped with numerous skylights that give it the feeling of a Mediterranean hideaway. "Light is the essence, and light coming in from all sides is especially bathing and soothing," is how Mr. Johnson described his intentions with the building.

4 p.m.

9. By the Sea
Ever pet a shark? If not, then the Texas State Aquarium (2710 North Shoreline Boulevard, 361-881-1200) may be the place for you. You can touch some of the animals, including the sharks and stingrays, as museum officials discuss their attributes. One exhibit is a 132,000-gallon tank that recreates the habitat -- complete with sand tiger sharks and giant groupers -- around oil platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. Admission is $11.95; $6.96 for ages 4 to 12.

6 p.m.

10. Chow Time
Seeing all those fish can make some people hungry. So head over to the Water Street Seafood Company, (309 North Water Street in the Water Street Seafood Market district, 361-882-8683), where the mesquite-grilled mahi-mahi ($16) is delicious. The restaurant successfully blends Cajun and Mexican influences in a downtown atmosphere where Corpus Christi's business and political classes mix with regular folk.

8 p.m.

11. Executive Surfing
Next door to the Seafood Company is a Corpus Christi establishment, the Executive Surf Club, (306 North Chaparral Street, 361-884-7873), which contains a bar, restaurant, record store and an outdoor space for live music. The record store, which also sells beachwear, has a friendly staff that is able to explain the intricacies of Texas musical styles like country-folk, Tejano or conjunto. Recently, Rusty Wier, a Texas-born singer blending country, folk, rock and blues, played favorites like, "I Hear You Been Laying My Old Lady," to a crowd clad in Wrangler jeans and cowboy boots that cheered in approval of his decidedly politically incorrect lyrics. Admission to the shows varies; Rusty's act was $13 a person.

Sunday

10 a.m.

12. Smell the Plumeria
The outsider's image of Texas as invariably dry and flat has been reinforced by movies like "Giant," the 1956 classic starring James Dean about the transformation of the state from a ranching- to an oil-based economy. The Corpus Christi Botanical Gardens and Nature Center (8545 South Staples Street, 361- 852-2100), on the outskirts of the city near the King Ranch, reminds visitors that much of South Texas is humid, lush and green. The 180-acre site includes a shady mesquite forest, wetlands, 250 fragrant tropical plumeria trees, 2,500 orchids and even some cactuses. Don't be afraid to muddy your feet along the walking paths, from which you can view new housing developments beginning to encroach on the pristine surroundings.

Noon

13. Harmon Dobson's Legacy
A visit to Corpus Christi would not be complete with a stop at the Whataburger's 6,000-square-foot flagship restaurant, Whataburger by the Bay, (201 Shoreline Boulevard). Whataburger, a regional fast-food chain founded in Corpus Christi by Harmon Dobson in 1950 that has grown into the nation's eighth-largest hamburger restaurant operator, remains one of the city's most resilient corporate symbols. A life-size bronze likeness of Dobson greets customers as they enter the restaurant.

THE BASICS
Visiting Corpus Christi
Don't let the view of smoke-belching petrochemical towers, a familiar sight along the Texas Gulf Coast, fool you as you enter Corpus Christi. The prize at the end of the drive from other parts of Texas is a view of the normally placid waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Corpus Christi is 143 miles south (on Interstate 35) of San Antonio and 220 miles southwest of Houston (on Route 59 to Victoria then Route 77 and I-37 to Corpus Christi). 
The Omni Corpus Christi Hotel (361-887-1600) consists of two towers, the Bayfront Tower at 900 North Shoreline Boulevard and the Marina Tower at 707 North Shoreline Boulevard. Together they form an elegant seaside hotel with a combined 821 rooms. Weekend rates are $98 to $225. Amenities include a health club and a spa with massage therapy in each tower. All rooms have views of Corpus Christi Bay.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Greg Spaulding for The New York Times) Map of Texas highlighting Corpus Christi and points of interest. (Drawing by Steven Shukow for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBORS & PORTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (78%); BEACHES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); NAVIES (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); NAVAL VESSELS (69%); MILITARY VESSELS (64%); WORLD WAR II (64%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (64%); TATTOO PARLORS (60%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (98%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (98%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) CORPUS CHRISTI (TEX); TEXAS

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



653 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
To the Collector, The Spoils

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN 

DATELINE: PORTOLA VALLEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
THERE is an adage in collecting that "you should always buy what you like." Jacques Littlefield really likes tanks.
 "This is not mainstream U.S.A.," Mr. Littlefield said with characteristic understatement about his collection of 220 military vehicles, including 66 tanks from late World War I through the 1980's, which makes up perhaps the world's foremost private museum of armored fighting vehicles. "It's definitely a niche." 
 For the record, Mr. Littlefield, a self-described "tank nerd" and die-hard libertarian, is not what he would call a "right-wing wacko." He just happens to be zealous about restoring tanks, tank destroyers, armored cars, self-propelled antitank guns and other military hardware -- all of it legally deactivated. Roam with him in his red Jeep Wrangler across his 470-acre ranch, passing a propeller from the Lusitania that sits beneath a tree along the way, and it is difficult not to feel shock and awe at an apotheosis of his collection: a muscular German Panzer IV -- the tank equivalent of a Rembrandt -- standing watch over Mr. Littlefield's private 46,000-square-foot shrine to heavy metal. 
The Panzer, or the Mark IV as the British called it, invaded Poland in 1939, France in the summer of 1940, Russia in 1941 and, under Rommel, attacked British forces in the desert of North Africa. It is one of Mr. Littlefield's pretty rare specimens. His definition of rare: "If there's only one, and I've got it. Common is if there's a second." He also has a six-ton M-1917, the first American production tank from the end of World War I; a 12-ton halftrack personnel carrier from the movie "The Dirty Dozen"; a 1944 German Panther tank rescued after 40 years in a Polish bog; numerous one-of-a-kind prototypes; and a pair of Soviet-made Scud-missile launchers fitted with dummy missiles.
Mr. Littlefield, 53, who said he never served in the military because of a hearing loss he suffered as a child, is among a small but growing fraternity of military-vehicle collectors. Most content themselves with so-called soft-skinned vehicles like jeeps and the occasional halftrack. But a handful, like Mr. Littlefield, specialize in restoring 60-ton armored boy toys. All but one of his are in mint driving condition and outfitted as if ready for battle. Frank Jardim, director of the Patton Museum of Calvary and Armor at Fort Knox, Ky., called the Littlefield collection, which draws 3,000 to 4,000 visitors by appointment a year, "very likely the premiere collection in the world." Mr. Littlefield said that he had spent millions of dollars, though he has never added up how many.
With the exception of the Fourth of July, when he entertains friends by crushing a used car or two with a tank, Mr. Littlefield seldom drives his vehicles. What he says turns him on is the complex technology -- the dizzying array of hydraulic, mechanical and electrical systems that make a Sherman tank different from a Ford Mustang. "A tank has everything a car has, but a whole lot more," he said recently, the scent of the plastic used to fill in rust pits permeating the air.
MR. LITTLEFIELD, like many collectors, be it of tanks or Hula-Hoops, began his obsession early. It started, he said, first with Erector sets when he was 10, then moved to radio-controlled boats in the swimming pool. (His father, Edmund Wattis Littlefield, who died two years ago, was at the helm of the mining company Utah International in 1976 when it merged with General Electric, a deal valued at $2.2 billion.) Next, he moved on to radio-controlled models of tanks, which frustrated him by crashing, then to radio-controlled tank models from a kit. When the kits failed to challenge him, he began engineering miniature tanks from scratch, starting with a one-eighth-scale M-48A3, a Patton tank used in Vietnam, outfitted with a radio-controlled turret, elevated cannon and a gun firing .22-caliber pellets.
Other children fantasize about Disneyland. Mr. Littlefield dreamed of control valves. "My idea of a wonderful vacation was going to visit the Chrysler tank plant in Detroit or the G.E. appliance plant in Louisville," he said. It helped that his father sat on the corporate boards.
At Stanford, in the early 1970's, where he majored in economics and got an M.B.A., he hung around the mechanical engineering shop, forgoing peace marches in favor of whipping up a one-fourth-scale radio-controlled M-60A1, using scaled-down blueprints. Even then he enjoyed being a renegade, "the nail sticking up" as he put it. "He was the only student with radio-controlled tanks around," recalled Jim Adams, a professor emeritus of mechanical engineering.
In a sense, all Mr. Littlefield has since done is increase the scale. His first acquisition, which he restored himself (he now has a staff of five), was a rundown World War II-era American M-3A1 wheeled scout car, purchased for $3,500 in 1976. He worked briefly for Hewlett-Packard as a "flunky engineer" -- a job he procured with an economics degree by showing off his tank-model portfolio -- then left to manage family investments and pursue his passion full-time. "There is a genre of human being like me," he said of the collecting gene. "It's like a type of dog."
Novelty is part of the appeal. "It's not something everybody has," he said of his 220 military vehicles, which reside at Pony Tracks Ranch, a hilly expanse that includes an early 1900's coach house and a covered dressage riding ring, visually dominated by huge metal sheds housing military vehicles. Winding private lanes with views of San Francisco Bay are dotted with rusted engines and tank fragments, lending this tony, horsey corner of Silicon Valley a slight Battle of El Alamein quality.
It is helpful for his personal life, Mr. Littlefield acknowledged, that most of the vehicles were procured before he met his third wife, Sandy, a Harvard Business School graduate and a former executive, whom he married last year. Mr. Littlefield has three children from a previous marriage. "She'd rather we do other things, like fix up the house," he said.
His 12,000-square-foot workshop serves as a vehicular MASH unit, with a 15-ton overhead crane and rotating welding fixture that can spin a tank as if it were a chicken on a rotisserie. Another sign that this is not your average garage are the labels on dozens of bins that hold spare parts: "Lighting, infrared"; "Night vision sights, US & foreign"; "Panther swing arm housings."
Spare parts are difficult to come by. Panther collectors, of whom there are about five worldwide, will occasionally put in a group order for torsion bars and the like. "You have to grab them when you can," Mr. Littlefield said. "It's like Kleenex by the pallet at Costco."
Vehicles arrive from all over the world in a mandated state of disrepair. Tanks and other military vehicles are required by the government to be "deweaponized" or "demilitarized," with holes cut in the hull and turret to make them unsuitable for combat.
The government has recently become more stringent about what can be bought abroad. "Tanks and other military hardware are produced and manufactured for supporting U.S. foreign policy and our friends and allies," said David Quinn, a deputy director of the Office of Regional Security and Arms Transfers at the State Department. "That equipment is not produced for every citizen to have their own tank."
FOR years, tanks were largely unappreciated as collectibles, parked outside V.F.W. halls or converted by cities into snow plows, said Michael Green, co-author of "Modern U.S. Tanks & AFV's." The collectors' market began in earnest at the end of the cold war, when disarmament treaties caused governments abroad, particularly in Eastern Europe, to sell surplus or obsolete military vehicles, often at scrap metal prices.
The chain of ownership can be fascinating. At the end of World War II, Panzer IV's "littered the countrysides from France to the Soviet Union," Mr. Green said. Mr. Littlefield's Panzer IV was bought by Syria in the late 1950's or early 60's and was then captured by Israel in the 1967 war, which installed it in a museum. The Panzer arrived at Mr. Littlefield's earlier this year after the museum traded it to him for three American tanks -- a Lee, a Grant and a Stuart -- the first American tanks used in combat in North Africa in World War II.
Mr. Littlefield has the luxury of disassembling each vehicle, cleaning each part and repairing it to the original specifications, going so far as to cut his own stencils, mix his own paints and sand and replate every bolt -- there are thousands in a tank -- to make sure they are historically accurate.
He has started the Military Vehicle Technology Foundation, a nonprofit organization, to keep the collection intact and make it available to contractors, designers, modelers, students and, occasionally, Hollywood. When George Lucas's Skywalker Sound needed the rumble of a Sherman tank running at 30 miles an hour, making a right turn and then backing up for "Saving Private Ryan," they knew whom to call.
But nothing makes Mr. Littlefield happier than performing an archaeological excavation on a dismembered tank. "I like problem solving," he said. "Once it's working perfectly, it's not as much fun."

GRAPHIC: Photos: ARMORED GALLERY -- The 220 military vehicles amassed by Jacques Littlefield include 66 tanks and a Citroen halftrack, foreground, built for desert use.; GERMAN GEM -- The Panzer IV is among the jewels of Mr. Littlefield's collection, considered among the best in the world. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F1); MULTINATIONAL -- Jacques Littlefield's collection includes a Soviet-made Scud launcher, above left, and an American Sherman M-4 tank from World War II. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); WORLD WAR I (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (65%) MILITARY VEHICLES; TANKS (MILITARY VEHICLES); COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS 

PERSON: LITTLEFIELD, JACQUES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED KINGDOM (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); POLAND (74%); FRANCE (54%) PORTOLA VALLEY (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



654 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 3376 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by Times critics of new or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses.

Now Playing

* "BAD SANTA," starring Billy Bob Thornton and Tony Cox. Directed by Terry Zwigoff (R, 95 minutes). Somebody needed to make a comedy built around all of the holiday season hostility that goes up along with the decorations this time of year. Mr. Zwigoff and the screenwriters Glenn Ficarra and John Requa are just the guys for such a task. "Bad Santa" takes all of the Christmas season's bad vibes and converts them into an achingly funny and corrupt dark comedy. Mr. Thornton is Willie T. Stokes, a burned-out, hard-drinking safecracker who's annually roused from sleeping one off during the most wonderful time of the year by his dwarf partner, Marcus (Mr. Cox). As Marcus works as a department store elf, he also cases the store so that he and Willie can break in and relieve the joint of valuable merchandise. On this tour, they've ended up in Phoenix, which just adds to the wealth of hilarious incongruity. As a director, Mr. Zwigoff has a taste for finding the dramatic power of self-loathing and making it entertainment. His previous films -- the documentary "Crumb" and the his fiction-film debut, "Ghost World" -- both hinged on coping with epic tides of depression. "Santa" falls directly into that lineage. Willie is filled with the most distorted kind of narcissism imaginable, and for Mr. Thornton, it functions as a kind of star chemistry. Willie ladles it generously on the kids who line up to see him on his wobbly perch on Santa's throne: he's the kind of minimum-wage jackal who has sent his victims on to thousands of hours of therapy (Elvis Mitchell).

* "BARBARIAN INVASIONS," starring Remy Girard. Directed by Denys Arcand (R, 99 minutes). Mr. Arcand reassembles many of the same lustful, left-wing French Canadian intellectuals who populated "Decline of the American Empire," his 1986 comedy of intellectual grandiosity and sexual duplicity. This time, the bawdy talk and political banter is shadowed by mortality, and by the rueful awareness that history has had the last laugh. Remy (Mr. Girard) is dying of cancer, and friends, former lovers and estranged wife gather around his death bed for a long, sentimental seminar replete with naughty jokes and wistful nostalgia. Joining them are two members of the younger generation -- Remy's son, Sebastien, a wealthy international banker, and Nathalie, a heroin addict -- who lack both the bravado and the narcissism of their parents. What makes this more than a facile study in generational conflict is Mr. Arcand's acute sense of history: he has made the cultural contradictions of global capitalism into the material of a heartfelt domestic drama that is also a broad, accessible and devilishly funny sex farce (A. O. Scott).

"DR. SEUSS' THE CAT IN THE HAT," starring Mike Myers, Alec Baldwin, Kelly Preston, Dakota Fanning and Spencer Breslin. Directed by Bo Welch (PG, 78 minutes). It is fun to have fun, but you have to know how. This vulgar, unimaginative adaptation of Dr. Seuss's first "I Can Read" book is a compendium of how not to. Mr. Myers, as the anarchic feline, has the manner of a Borscht Belt comedian telling toilet jokes, and he helps to drag a great work of literature through a sewer of pandering, cynicism and crude sentimentality. Mr. Breslin and Ms. Fanning, as the two children whose dreary day at home is disrupted by the cat, are smart young actors, but they have little to do besides stand around and gawk, and then learn valuable lessons at the end. Parents tempted to expose their children to this bottom-feeding attempt to cash in on Dr. Seuss's reputation should heed the advice of the skeptical fish: "Make that cat go away! Tell that cat in the hat you do not want to play" (Scott).

"ELF," starring Will Ferrell, James Caan, Zooey Deschanel, Edward Asner and Bob Newhart. Directed by Jon Favreau (PG, 90 minutes). Mr. Ferrell, admired for his television impersonation of George W. Bush, plays Buddy the Elf, who is not really an elf, but an overgrown human child reared by elves. Buddy, who towers over the other residents of the North Pole (thanks to some ingeniously designed sets and clever camera angles), is lovable but inept; he has been accepted by the elves, and his adoptive father (Mr. Newhart) dotes on him, but he still does not quite fit in. And so, following the timeworn adoptee-in-search-of-birth-parent storyline, Buddy sets out for New York, on a mission to find his roots and also to revive the faltering Christmas spirit of the notoriously cynical locals, who include his dad (Mr. Caan) and an adorable department store pseudo-elf (Ms. Deschanel). Directed in relatively mellow, easy-going style by Mr. Favreau, "Elf" is a charming, silly family Christmas movie more likely to spread real joy than migraine, indigestion and sugar shock. The movie succeeds because it at once restrains its sticky, gooey good cheer and wildly overdoes it. The restraint comes from the casting of two beloved old sitcom curmudgeons, Mr. Asner and Mr. Newhart, as Santa and his chief elf. The responsibility for overdoing it belongs to Mr. Ferrell, who seems poised to enter the million-dollar pop-culture doofus pantheon alongside Adam Sandler, Jim Carrey and SpongeBob SquarePants (Scott).

"HAUNTED MANSION," starring Eddie Murphy. Directed by Rob Minkoff (PG, 98 minutes). This Disney fright comedy, with Mr. Murphy in another of his put-upon dad roles, is an anomaly -- no frights and no laughs. The price of the popcorn-and-drink combo at most theaters running this film is scarier. The titular entity is occupied by a ghost, Edward Gracey (Nathaniel Parker), who took his own life centuries ago in response to his lady love's suicide. Years later, the real estate agent Jim Evers (Mr. Murphy) is summoned to Gracey Manor with his wife, Sara (Marsha Thomason); tough-girl daughter, Megan (Aree Davis); and son, Michael (Marc John Jeffries). And the breathtaking Sara has an amazing resemblance to the late lady of the manor. "Mansion" is a movie that doesn't really want to evoke reaction; it lacks even the cheesy fear quotient that a film like "Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy" could dredge up. And Mr. Murphy is left to fall back on his mechanical sketch version of displaying terror, which makes the picture seem even more insubstantial (Mitchell).

* "IN AMERICA," starring Samantha Morton and Paddy Considine. Directed by Jim Sheridan (PG-13, 103 minutes). Many of the elements in this picture about an Irish family living in New York -- picturesque poverty; an angelic, doomed black man; a dead child; a pair of cute, precocious daughters; a risky pregnancy toward the end -- seem to promise a sticky bath of shameless sentimentality. But instead, thanks to Mr. Sheridan's graceful, scrupulously sincere direction and the dry intelligence of his cast, "In America" is likely to pierce the defenses of all but the most dogmatically cynical viewers. The film, which Mr. Sheridan wrote with two of his daughters, is unabashedly personal, but he is too modest a filmmaker to turn his own experience into a lesson or a parable. From moment to moment, as it follows Johnny and Sarah Sullivan (Mr. Considine and Ms. Morton, both quietly terrific) through their daily struggles, the story feels small, almost anecdotal. But just as its tactful realism is adorned with a dusting of magic, its unassuming clarity hides an unexpected grandeur. It is the kind of movie that keeps growing in your mind long after you've seen it, and its characters are so radiantly particular that they come, after a while, to seem like people you know (Scott).

"LOVE ACTUALLY," starring Alan Rickman, Bill Nighy, Colin Firth, Emma Thompson, Hugh Grant, Laura Linney and Liam Neeson. Written and directed by Richard Curtis (R, 128 minutes). An indigestible Christmas pudding from the British whimsy factory responsible for such reasonably palatable confections as "Four Weddings and a Funeral," "Notting Hill" and "Bridget Jones's Diary." A romantic comedy swollen to the length of an Oscar-trolling epic -- nearly two and a quarter hours of cheekiness, diffidence and high-toned smirking -- Mr. Curtis's film is more like a record label's greatest-hits compilation or a "very special" sitcom clip-reel show than an actual movie. A sparkling Anglo-American cast of newly minted and long-familiar stars chirps, swoons, pines, quips and sheds the odd tear. Presiding over it all is the new prime minister, a twinkly bachelor with a tonsorial resemblance to Tony Blair, who is played by none other than Mr. Grant. He is just one of a number of men (Mr. Rickman and Mr. Firth are the others) who fall for younger women in their employ. A half-dozen subplots are strewn hither and yon as the movie swerves between cynicism and maudlin sentiment, oblivious to its own sleaziness and dishonesty. The only genuine comic spark comes from Mr. Nighy, as a washed-up rock star trying to make a comeback with a treacly Christmas single. The song, he's happy to admit, is rubbish. So is the movie, though it is decked out with the outward signs of sophisticated good taste (Scott).

* "MASTER AND COMMANDER: THE FAR SIDE OF THE WORLD," starring Russell Crowe and Paul Bettany. Directed by Peter Weir (PG-13, 140 minutes). This stupendously entertaining movie, adapted from two of the novels in Patrick O'Brian's 20-volume maritime adventure series, celebrates an idea of England that might have seemed a bit corny even in 1805, when the action takes place, but that is brought to vibrant life thanks to Mr. Crowe's commanding performance and Mr. Weir's thoroughgoing mastery. Mr. Crowe plays Jack Aubrey, captain of the H.M.S. Surprise, a British frigate doing battle with a mysterious French battleship off South America. The combat scenes are shot with economy and vigor, but the most thrilling parts of the movie take place between skirmishes, when the complex system of authority and deference that runs the Surprise -- and the personality traits needed to keep it running -- is at the center of attention. The film's theme is the nature of authority, and Aubrey functions as a kind of ideal executive: charismatic, tactically astute and able to instill in his sailors a sense of discipline and respect. Mr. Bettany plays the ship's surgeon, Aubrey's best friend and foil, and the tension between them -- between reason and duty, between intellect and action -- gives the movie some unexpected dramatic depth (Scott).

"THE MATRIX REVOLUTIONS," starring Keanu Reeves and Carrie-Anne Moss. Written and directed by the Wachowski Brothers (R, 129 minutes). "Everything that has a beginning has an end." Yes, thank God -- or Neo, or the One, or the Source, or the Oracle, or the Architect, or whoever it was who set this metaphysical action trilogy in motion. Last summer's "Reloaded," the second installment, was overstuffed and ungainly; this concluding chapter feels padded, with a long, grinding battle sequence in the middle and a whole lot of mumbo jumbo at the end. Mr. Reeves, perhaps worried that he was showing too much range, has purged himself of all expression apart from a worried frown and a sorrowful grimace, which is mirrored in the face of Ms. Moss, who returns as Trinity. The salient distinction of the human remnants in Zion, apart from their earth-toned natural-fiber fashions, has been the capacity for love, a word much spoken in this movie. But their ranks, in spite of the presence of fine actors like Laurence Fishburne, Harry Lennix and Harold Perrineau Jr., become more robotic with every passing scene. The sole exception is Jada Pinkett Smith as the daredevil pilot Niobe, who brings a touch of bad-girl B-movie attitude into the humorless subterranean gloom. It is not altogether worthless: the Wachowskis still know how to stage an action sequence, and there are some scenes that have a quiet, mysterious beauty. If they would only let go of their grandiose theological pretensions, they might once again be interesting filmmakers (Scott).

"THE MISSING," starring Tommy Lee Jones, Cate Blanchett and Evan Rachel Wood. Directed by Ron Howard (R, 115 minutes). Apparently the only thing tougher than endurance on the frontier is sitting through a movie about endurance on the frontier -- at least that's the point "The Missing" is determined to make. Amazingly, what it also seems to be saying is that nearly 50 years after John Ford's 1956 "The Searchers," we've arrived at a point in which the movie industry can only offer a less sophisticated version of the same material. Overly sensitive and disdainful of her tough life, Lilly (Ms. Wood) longs to escape the grim cabin she shares with her mother, Maggie (Ms. Blanchett), a healer, and little sister, Dot (Jenna Boyd). Lilly gets away from home in a way she never bargained for: she is kidnapped by a group of renegade Indians who plan to sell her once they cross the border into Mexico. Just before Lilly is snatched away, Maggie's estranged father (Mr. Jones) returns home: there's already tension in the household. When the worst happens, Maggie is forced to team with her father to track down her daughter. But "The Missing" leaves out the sexual paranoia that John Wayne's face reflected in "The Searchers"; he was eaten alive by the possibility that his abducted niece had become sexually involved with her captors. Despite torrents of brutality, there's no danger of rape from the scrupulous villains in "The Missing." As a result, this is a movie that exists only from the shoulders up. It's an intriguing way for Mr. Howard to play to his chief strength -- and interests -- the knotty and peculiar emotional cross-currents that buffet afamily. And before it shifts into the thriller aspect of the story, "The Missing" feels like a thoughtful attempt to focus on the strains of home life. After the mission of "The Missing" begins, however, the movie starts to feel like an episode of Stephen King's "Little House on the Prairie" (Mitchell).

* "SHATTERED GLASS," starring Hayden Christensen, Chloe Sevigny and Peter Sarsgaard. Written and directed by Billy Ray (PG-13, 90 minutes). The story of Stephen Glass, a brilliant young journalist at The New Republic who turned out to be a profligate fabricator, might have inspired a dishy, cynical expose of the insular, cut-throat world of magazine journalism. Instead, Mr. Ray relates Glass's downfall with minimal embellishment and turns a tawdry anecdote into a sober, curiously thrilling examination of moral recklessness and office intrigue. What starts out as a sharp workplace comedy gradually darkens into a kind of managerial film noir as Glass (played with a perfect mixture of creepiness and charm by Mr. Christensen) is pursued by Charles Lane (Mr. Sarsgaard), the magazine's editor and, in this version at least, the savior of its honor. With considerable ingenuity and wit, the movie's center of gravity shifts from Glass to Lane, and its ideas -- about workplace loyalty, journalistic ethics and the line between ambition and pathology -- are all the more forceful for being delivered in a whisper (Scott).

"TIMELINE," starring Paul Walker and Frances O'Connor. Directed by Richard Donner (PG-13, 116 minutes). This clumsy, wooden screen adaptation of Michael Crichton's novel "Timeline" suggests a particularly wretched episode of "Star Trek." A fantasy of time travel in which a group of contemporary archaeologists plunges through a wormhole in the time-space continuum to land in France in 1357, the movie pounds you over the head with its noisy and ridiculous notions of medieval life. The expedition is dispatched to retrieve a distinguished professor who got stuck in the past and left an S.O.S., which his protege discovers on a dig. When the movie's interminable battle scenes between the French and the English pause, two pairs of cardboard lovebirds grab the chance to steal a smooch. But the movie doesn't have a genuinely human moment (Stephen Holden).

* "THE TRIPLETS OF BELLEVILLE," with the voices of Jean-Claude Donda, Michel Robin and Monica Viegas. Written and directed by Sylvain Chomet (PG-13, 80 minutes). Mr. Chomet's ravishingly weird animated feature unfolds in a universe of sheer impossibility, where size, proportion and balance are ruled by the whims of the director's perverse pen and his peculiar imagination. Although that imagination has evidently been fed by sources as various as Betty Boop, Jacques Tati and European comic books, its products are too strange to be assimilated into any known tradition. The plot is too bizarre for summary, but it involves the efforts of a diminutive, club-footed grandmother to rescue her grandson, a Tour de France cyclist, from the clutches of the French mafia. Aiding her are her faithful dog, Bruno, and the triplets of the title, a trio of weird sisters who subsist on a diet of frogs and who make entrancing music with kitchen appliances and old newspapers. "The Triplets" is a similar collage of the found and the invented. Its style evokes a postwar France making its stubborn, eccentric way into the modern world -- a nation of cigarette-rolling truck drivers and accordion-squeezing pop singers. It is surely the oddest movie of the year -- by turns sweet and sinister, insouciant and grotesque, invitingly funny and forbiddingly dark. It may also, by dint of Mr. Chomet's sheer inventiveness, be one of the best (Scott).

"TUPAC: RESURRECTION," directed by Lauren Lazin (R, 90 minutes). Ms. Lazin's documentary about the life and work of the rap star and actor Tupac Shakur is less a biography than a posthumous memoir, narrated from beyond the grave by its subject, who was killed in a drive-by shooting in 1996. Ms. Lazin uses audio and video clips, interviews, still photographs and handwritten lyrics to give Shakur the chance to reflect on his short, dramatic and remarkably productive life. "This is my story," he says. "Ambition, redemption, violence and love." There is also controversy, legal trouble, a difficult childhood and some jail time -- as well as snippets from Shakur's fresh, diverse and provocative music. As its title suggests, the movie is less concerned with analyzing Shakur than with bringing him back to life, for which his fans can only be grateful. For everyone else, this film provides the affecting, partial portrait -- you might even say the self-portrait -- of a talented young man (he was 25 when he died) whose fate was to be misunderstood, perhaps most tragically by himself (Scott).

* "21 GRAMS," starring Sean Penn, Naomi Watts and Benicio Del Torro. Directed by Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu (R, 125 minutes). This new melodrama by the Mexican director is a ruminative, stunned look at life after death -- that is, the existence of the living after they have been devastated by loss. The stars achieve something that doesn't sound possible: a virtuosity in the depiction of people wasting away minute by minute. Be prepared for it. You won't come out unaffected, because the depths of intimacy that the director plumbs here are so rarely touched by filmmakers that "21 Grams" is tantamount to the discovery of a new country. Prof. Paul Rivers (Mr. Penn) is suffering from a damaged heart, and the transplant he receives so consumes him with guilt that he's like a death-row prisoner with a horrible secret who has been pardoned. He still believes he deserves to die. Cristina (Ms. Watts), a reformed party girl, has returned to her fallen ways after taking up with Paul; she has lost her family in an auto accident. And Jack (Mr. Del Toro) is a shaggy, trembling mountain of anger he can barely contain. His already tenuous grasp on sobriety is slipping away even faster since he was involved in a terrible incident. Working with the screenwriter Guillermo Arriaga and the cinematographer Rodrigo Prieto -- the team he assembled for his debut feature, "Amores Perros" -- Mr. Gonzalez Inarritu once again deals with three scenarios connected by one far-reaching cataclysm. It's too early to call it a crowning work of a career -- this is only his second film -- but it may well be the crowning work of this year (Mitchell).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sean Penn and Naomi Watts in "21 Grams," which deals with surviving after devastating loss. (Photo by Jim Sheldon/Focus Features); Stephane Rousseau, left, and Remy Girard in Denys Arcand's "Barbarian Invasions." (Photo by Miramax Films) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); WRITERS (70%); RETAILERS (67%); HEROIN (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



655 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
A 1970's Farm Union Struggle Leaves a Broken Town Today

BYLINE:  By DAVE KEHR 

 BODY:
With "Valley of Tears," the director and cinematographer Hart Perry returns to 16-millimeter film he shot in 1979 while working for the Texas Farm Workers Union. The material concerns a strike in Raymondville in South Texas that broke out when union pickers, most if not all of them Mexican-Americans, decided that 25 cents a bushel, the going rate for more than 20 years, was no longer enough to live on.
 The strike, as it plays out in the first third of Mr. Perry's film, offers a quintessentially 1970's sense of social struggle, pitting a group of likable, salt-of-the-earth Latinos against the local power structure, obligingly played by a collection of humorless, overweight, middle-aged white men who might have been sent over by Central Casting. Mr. Perry, in fact, had just helped shoot Barbara Kopple's Oscar-winning documentary "Harlan County, U.S.A.," a gripping cinema verite account of an Appalachian coal miners' strike in 1976. In those days, still reeling with 60's idealism, the issues seemed clear enough: the deserving poor vs. the exploitive rich. 
 But the 1979 strike did not produce clear results, as Mr. Perry found when he returned to the region with a video camera, first in the early 90's to cover a contentious school board election pitting a white board against Latino parents, and again in 2000, when a Mexican-American candidate ran for district attorney. The Raymondville he discovers bears little resemblance to its bustling self of even a decade earlier, and it seems like a ghost town compared with the thriving farm community Mr. Perry shows in newsreels from the 1950's, when the town, the self-proclaimed onion-producing capital of America, held an annual Miss Onion pageant.
Today Raymondville seems hopelessly broken, a city divided along racial lines, from which businesses have fled and through which unemployment is spreading. No longer willing to employ potentially troublesome local pickers, the farmers have either closed up or brought in automated picking equipment, leaving the farmworkers out in the cold.
Mr. Perry offers no overt editorializing; the film, which opens today in New York, is free of the omniscient narrator (often Martin Sheen) who typically offers cut-and-dried conclusions in left-leaning documentaries. But the implication is clear enough: a movement that gave Latinos a crucial sense of themselves and the political power they could wield has resulted in the nearly complete destruction of the local economy -- a feudal economy, to be sure, but one that had functioned marginally well for several generations. Underlying the film is a powerful, unstated question: were the gains worth the losses?
Another title for Mr. Perry's film might have been "American Impasse"; though truth and justice may lie on the side of the workers, the farm owners have a hammerlock on the real-world economy. Neither of these forces is easily swayed, as Mr. Perry is tragically aware. Dense, contradictory and distressingly honest, "Valley of Tears" is that rarity among political 
documentaries: a genuinely thought-provoking film.

VALLEY OF TEARS

Produced and directed by Hart Perry; director of photography, Mr. Perry; edited by Richard Lowe; music by Phil Marsh, Estevan Jordan and Maria Guardiana; released by Seventh Art Releasing. At the Two Boots Pioneer Theater, 155 East Third Street, at Avenue A, East Village. Running time: 82 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Juanita Valdez, Jesus Moya, Juan Guerra, Marcial Silva, Oscar Correa, Winnie Wetegrove, Paul Whitworth, Tocho Almendarez, Barbara Savage and Norris McGee.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from Hart Perry's documentary "Valley of Tears." (Photo by Seventh Art Releasing) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FILM (90%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); MATERIALS HANDLING (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (69%); POLITICS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); MINES & MINING (67%); SCHOOL BOARDS (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); COAL MINING (52%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS 

PERSON: KEHR, DAVE; PERRY, HART 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: VALLEY OF TEARS (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



656 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
European Union Agrees to Rules on Mergers

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
After 14 years and several false starts, European Union lawmakers finally agreed Thursday to pass a law intended to ease cross-border takeovers.
 However, the compromise they reached skirted some of the most contentious issues, prompting critics, including the law's original author, the European Commission, to dismiss the text as toothless. 
The European Commission had planned a code that would ban companies in the union from taking action to frustrate a hostile takeover bid without the prior authority of the company's shareholders.
 The goal was to increase cross-border takeovers, which are seen as an important way of integrating the union's economies. 
 Government ministers from 14 of the 15 member states of the union agreed to the code. Spain abstained. Once adopted, the agreement would make the banning of frustrating tactics like multiple voting rights and poison pills optional for member states.
 It would also permit companies in the union to use defense tactics like a poison pill if they are the subject of a hostile bid from another company based in a jurisdiction that permits these defenses, like the United States. This reciprocity clause could be applied by a company even if its national government chose to outlaw the tactic.
 Sweden was determined to preserve its right to allow the Wallenberg family, which controls some of the country's biggest corporate assets including the mobile phone maker Ericsson and the engineering concern ABB, to defend the companies from hostile bids from abroad with stock that carries special voting rights.
 Germany also wanted to make sure that its carmaker Volkswagen could continue to fend off hostile bids. Volkswagen restricts the voting rights of its shareholders to a maximum 20 percent even if an investor holds a larger stake.
The company has intimate links with government. The state of Lower Saxony owns 20 percent of its shares and Gerhard Schroder, as governor of Lower Saxony, was chairman of Volkswagen's supervisory board before he was elected chancellor in 1998.
 The European Parliament, which must also sign off on the proposal before it can be passed, indicated that it would support the compromise. "There are no further obstacles" to passing a takeover directive, said Klaus Lehne, a German member of the European Parliament in charge of shepherding the proposal through the Parliament.
 Mr. Lehne led a successful rebellion to derail a tougher version of the takeover code two years ago.
 Frits Bolkestein, the European Commissioner for the internal market, distanced himself from the agreement. "It goes against the wishes of the Commission," he told the ministers after they reached their agreement, according to his spokesman, Jonathan Todd. Making the crucial articles in the proposal optional "empties it of its contents," Mr. Bolkestein told them.
 Mr. Bolkestein tried to withdraw the directive, rather than let it go through in such a watered-down form, but his fellow commissioners voted against such a move at their weekly meeting Wednesday. 
 The investment community shared Mr. Bolkestein's concerns about the compromise.
 The optional nature of the most important parts of the code "means we don't move down the road towards orderly arrangements for takeovers, which would have allowed for the adjustments needed to create a single investment market in the union," said Peter Montagnon, head of investment affairs at the Association of British Insurers, whose members together hold about $1.5 trillion in investments around the world.
 The reciprocity clause "will build a fortress Europe and will damage the union's prosperity," Mr. Montagon said.
 Patricia Hewitt, the British secretary of state for trade and industry, acknowledged that the agreement she signed Thursday was far from perfect.
 Mr. Montagnon agreed that there were some useful elements to the text agreed to Thursday. The proposal calls for a mandatory bidding system, so that if an acquirer of a company reaches a deal with that company's main shareholder, it must extend the same terms to all minority shareholders.
 The directive also retains its squeeze-out clause. This would give the buyer of 90 percent in a company the automatic right to purchase the remaining 10 percent of shares.
 One person from the investment community who asked not to be identified said that while the compromise was "an unfortunate missed opportunity," he added that even with the optional nature of the most important clauses, it could in time push Europe's companies to voluntarily give up frustrating tactics.
 "You might find over time that the firms that agree not to mount defense tactics against hostile bids will command a premium in their share price over those that don't rule out such tactics," he said. "Those firms that stick to their rights to fend off bids may find the cost of capital more expensive, but this would take a long time to show. Hardly a fast track to European economic integration." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); MERGERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (50%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (50%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) LOWER SAXONY, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); GERMANY (92%); BELGIUM (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



657 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Stocks Mixed, With Japan Up 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Japanese stocks were modestly higher yesterday, with the benchmark index up for a third day as investors bought shares in banks and other domestic businesses. 
 The Nikkei index of 225 issues gained 18.55 points, or 0.18 percent, to close at 10,163.38. On Wednesday, the index gained 1.85 percent, finishing above the 10,000 level for the first time since Nov. 14. 
 Markets in the United States were closed for Thanksgiving. 
 Elsewhere, shares in Taiwan -- where investors worried about a confrontation with China over a proposal for national referendums -- stocks fell a little more than 2 percent. Other Asian markets showed only minor changes.
 In European trading, British blue-chip shares closed lower after a survey showed a drop in consumer confidence. 
 Markets were higher, though, in France, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Sweden.
 In currency dealings abroad, the dollar largely treaded water yesterday after notable weakness on Wednesday. In Tokyo, it fluctuated between 108.90 yen and 109.16 yen, compared with 108.98 in New York late Wednesday afternoon. 
 The eurowas higher against the dollar and yen, quoted in the afternoon in Tokyo at $1.1927, a little lower than the $1.1935 on Wednesday in New York. The euro bought 130.17 yen, up from 129.46 yen.
 Japanese stocks slipped in the morning on profit taking in technology companies, but moved back into positive territory on purchases of banking companies including the Mizuho Financial Group and UFJ Holdings. Sellers of the department store Mitsukoshi narrowly surpassed buyers, and the shares ended a bit lower. 
 Traders seemed encouraged by the market's firmness after climbing back above 10,000, which some analysts regard as a sign of growing confidence in prospects for Japan's sputtering economy.
 "The market doesn't yet have the energy to stage a rally, but support should become increasingly solid at 10,000 points," said Tetsuya Ishijima, senior strategist at Okasan Securities.
 In other Tokyo trading, the broader Topix index ended up 4.09 points, or 0.41 percent, at 1,006.11. The Topix, which charts more than 1,000 of Japan's largest companies, gained 13.91 points Wednesday. Volume declined, though, and the number of stocks closing down surpassed those that advanced.
 The yield on Japan's benchmark 10-year government bonds rose to 1.33 percent from Wednesday's finish of 1.32 percent. The price, which moves in the opposite direction of the yield, edged lower to 101.47 points. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); REFERENDUMS (70%); RETAILERS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MIZUHO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (58%); OKASAN SECURITIES GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: MFG (NYSE) (58%); 8411 (TSE) (58%); 8609 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (76%); NETHERLANDS (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



658 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: ADVERTISING; 
No Tinsel, No Santa: Holiday Ads for the Jaded

BYLINE:  By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
HOPING to avoid a Christmas as blue as the past few, retailers and marketers are experimenting with ambitiously novel ways to woo consumers. Along with traditional trappings like Santa's workshops, decorated store windows and teddy bears as gifts with purchases, shoppers will see an assortment of unconventional campaigns, all intended to encourage the impulse to buy among those bored with or tired of holiday chestnuts (literal and figurative). 
 Among the unusual initiatives: merchandise catalogs from Home Depot and the Estee Lauder Companies, a campaign sponsored by The New Yorker magazine to promote books as gifts , the hiring of a cast member of "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy" as a spokesman for Marshall Field's department stores, Gap stores selling CD's as a charity fund-raiser and commercials in Spanish for the Old Navy discount apparel chain. 
 Marketers are hoping that presenting something new will stimulate sales better than relying on familiar retreads or on price alone. 
 "You have this overstuffed consumerwith multitudes of everything, seeing the same thing in every store and looking for something original," said Candace Corlett, a partner at WSL Strategic Retail, a consulting company in New York. "The challenge has been handed to the retailer to run advertising that gets noticed. 
 "I'm glad to see they're finally letting loose their creativity and getting back to distinctive merchandising."
 Ms. Corlett called that a welcome change from "a preoccupation with making price their message, which most retailers can't win on because, let's face it, Wal-Mart has that locked up."
 The novelties are intended to capitalize on recent data indicating that consumers are growing more confident about the economy. The multibillion-dollar question, though, is whether playing up the new runs the risk of alienating the fans of venerable holiday pitches at a time when retailer rivalries have intensified after several consecutive holidays of sluggish sales.
 "The holidays are pretty competitive," said Kyle Andrew, vice president for marketing and brand communication at the Gap division of Gap Inc. in San Francisco. "So we realize the need to take it to the next level. 
 "Creating some newness and excitement to get people into our stores -- that's what it's all about."
 Ms. Andrew cited initiatives like the first-time holiday CD, being sold for $2 each at Gap stores nationwide. The CD has a recording of "Put a Little Love in Your Heart" by nine singers, including Al Green and Kelly Rowland, and a Gap holiday TV commercial by Laird & Partners in New York. The profits will be donated to the Boys and Girls Clubs of America. 
 Gap is also sponsoring its initial promotion with another brand, Ms. Andrew said. That promotion is centered on a sweepstakes with a grand prize of two 2004 New Beetles from the Volkswagen of America division of Volkswagen. Versions of the customized red Bugs will be on display starting Monday at 10 Gap stores in big markets like New York and San Francisco.
 At Home Depot, John Costello, executive vice president for merchandising and marketing in Atlanta, said, "our objective is to layer innovative new ideas on top of proven winners."
 The centerpiece of that effort is the new merchandise catalog, which runs 68 pages and displays a Ridgid drill on the cover rather than St. Nicholas or a red-nosed reindeer. Home Depot is sending five million copies of the catalog to customers, who can buy the featured merchandise online, in stores or by calling a toll-free number.
 Because 2003 "is shaping up as a home-oriented holiday," Mr. Costello added, "our strategy is to go after the gift business in a big way for the first time."
In another first, Mr. Costello said, Home Depot is offering at its stores today through Sunday merchandise known as "door-busters" -- products sold at special prices for the kickoff holiday-shopping weekend. The deals include microwave ovens at $27 and 7-foot artificial Christmas trees for $39.98.
 "If you look at the last few Christmases, they have been disappointing," said Linda Ahlers, president at Marshall Field's in Chicago, a division of the Target Corporation that operates 62 department stores in eight states. "So you need to look for what's working, and that's newness, something unique or special, whether it's new merchandise or new advertising."
 That was the impetus, Ms. Ahlers said, for Field's hiring of Carson Kressley, the tart-tongued fashion maven on "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy," the popular new series on the Bravo cable television network. In commercials created by an internal Field's teamand Peterson Milla Hooks in Minneapolis, which began running two weeks ago, Mr. Kressley offers his characteristically droll and direct advice to shoppers to promote several "13-hour sales" at Field's stores.
 Using an openly gay spokesman in its holiday advertising for the first time has generated no negative comments, Ms. Ahlers said, adding, "And believe me, if people do not like what we're doing, I get the letters and phone calls."
 "There are so many messages out there, you have to get the guests' attention," Ms. Ahlers said, using the Field's parlance for customers. "This is cutting through the clutter; we're getting great buzz, great response."
 A similar rationale was offered by Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne, group president at Lauder in New York, for his company's catalog, which promotes higher-priced fragrance brands like Beautiful and Intuition. The 16-page booklet is pasted on the back covers of the 2.8 million copies of the December issue of Cosmopolitan magazine, owned by the Hearst Corporation, now on newsstands.
 "The holiday season, which accounts for about 30 percent of the prestige-fragrance business, is a time when you have to break through the noise," Mr. Bousquet-Chavanne said, adding that Lauder "wanted to go beyond the traditional approach" and find "something powerful that would convey our presence in the fragrance market in a very different way."
 So far, so good, Mr. Bousquet-Chavanne said, citing a recent Thursday afternoon at the flagship Bloomingdale's store when shoppers "walking in with the catalog were three deep at the counter."
 Susan Wayne, executive vice president for marketing in San Francisco for Old Navy, also owned by Gap Inc., acknowledged that there was risk in trying something different during the crucial holiday shopping season, as Old Navy has with the introduction of Spanish-language commercials.
 "But we really felt we were ready to go," Ms. Wayne said. "We believe in the Hispanic market long term and we've had strong business momentum this year. So why wait?" Among the humorous spots, by the Vidal Partnership in New York, is one featuring the Latino actor Erik Estrada.
 David Carey, vice president and publisher of The New Yorker, part of Advance Publications, said his book-giving campaign was getting a strong response from the publishing industry. The campaign, carrying the theme "Have you booked your holiday?," features cartoons by New Yorker artists; it appears as ads in the magazine, in space donated by The New Yorker, and as posters in bookstores.
 "It has been a tough year for book publishing," Mr. Carey said, so the timing was right for "a promotion to remind the world books are great gifts.
 "We intend on doing it for some time, " he added, saying that versions of the campaign would be conducted next year on holidays like Mother's Day and Father's Day.
 Advertising -- the gift that keeps on giving.

GRAPHIC: Photos: To woo shoppers, retailers are edging into the nontraditional, in pitchmen as well as ads. Left, Carson Kressley of "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy" for Marshall Field's; right, Erik Estrada, in Spanish, for Old Navy. (pg. C1); The Home Depot's 68-page catalog features a Ridgid power drill rather than a Christmas scene.; Carson Kressley from "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy" puts his fashion advice to work for Marshall Field's in a series of holiday ads. (pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); SWEEPSTAKES (78%); HOME CENTERS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (91%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (91%); GAP INC (84%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (91%); EL (NYSE) (91%); GPS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



659 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
The U.S. And China Test Bounds Of Trade

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Washington and Beijing are talking these days as if they are in the midst of a trade war. But the words are harsher than the actions on each side, and the two governments seem more intent on keeping domestic constituencies happy than actually picking a fight.
 Indeed, with Prime Minister Wen Jiabao due to arrive in Washington in less than two weeks, the trade relationship between China and the United States seems to be falling into a pattern like that of Japan and the United States in the 1980's, experts suggest. Then, Tokyo and Washington engaged in skirmishes over everything, including cars, rice and baseball bats, all the while continuing to cooperate on strategic and financial issues. 
Likewise, China and the United States have continued to work together this year in seeking a halt to North Korea's nuclear program and in trying to stem the spread of terrorism in Asia, even as business executives brace for many more economic squabbles over the surging sales of various Chinese products in the United States. 
 Three American trade rulings in the last week and a half, and the reaction from China, have cast the two nations as wary boxers, testing each other as they try to set the parameters of what seems sure to be an enduring rivalry.
 On Monday, the Commerce Department proposed new taxes on color televisions from China, a week after it began legal proceedings to put quotas on Chinese bras, sleepwear and knit fabrics. The Friday before, the International Trade Commission approved putting tariffs on Chinese iron pipe fittings. Chinese officials and newspapers have condemned each decision as a violation of free trade principles. 
 Yet each of the American moves so far has involved less than 1 percent of Chinese exports to the United States, with the iron pipe fittings accounting for two-hundredths of 1 percent of these exports. 
 "With a trade volume of this size, there will inevitably be bumps and frictions, but by no means a trade war," said William H. Lash, the assistant secretary of commerce for market access and compliance. He added that American officials had gone to great lengths over the last several years to explain American trade laws and processes to Chinese officials.
 The Chinese reaction, in turn, has been fairly subdued. Beijing has not imposed retaliatory tariffs. Official statements have quoted junior officials criticizing American policies, in contrast with the top-level officials who have been publicly urging the United States lately to do more to discourage Taiwan from declaring independence from the mainland.
 There were reports Wednesday from Shenzhen that Chinese officials had quarantined a shipload of American soybeans, supposedly after finding a fungus in it. But Phil Laney, the China director for the American Soybean Association, said that after checking with shippers, he could find no evidence that this had actually happened.
 Executives say the jousting is a natural result of the fast growth of China's economy and exports. Goldman Sachs, in a new paper, forecasts that China's economic output will surpass America's within four decades. David L. Cunningham Jr., the president of Asian and Pacific operations at the FedEx Corporation, said trade disputes are "going to be an ongoing issue for the next 20 years, as power shifts and China re-emerges." 
 Yetthe Bush administration has blunted political pressures at home for across-the-board tariffs on Chinese imports by singling out a handful of products for tariffs and quotas. And Beijing has forestalled any domestic sentiment in favor of aggressive retaliation by talking tough even while taking little action, said Wu Guoguang, a former senior Chinese official who is now a professor at Chinese University here.
 Chinese officials have little interest in a trade war with the biggest customer for their products, but angry rhetoric now "is kind of a deterrent to the American side against a trade war," he said. Chinese exports to the United States exceed imports by nearly six to one, making it risky for China to alienate its biggest customer.
 Still, Fred Hu, a co-director of China's National Center for Economic Research and an economist with close ties to China's leaders, said that the American actions had forced Chinese officials to show their own people that they could not be pushed around easily.
 "It's very dangerous that the U.S. has been seen by the Chinese general public as self-serving and not a true free trader," said Mr. Hu, who also is an investment banker for Goldman Sachs. "It's going to cause tremendous credibility problems for the Chinese leaders" as they try to open Chinese markets to American goods.
 The United States is not alone in becoming alarmed at China's export prowess. Japan and the European Union are also engaged in a series of trade disputes with Beijing.
 If anything, some experts said, the biggest surprise is that the current backlash against Chinese exports has taken as long as it has to develop.
 China's exports have nearly quintupled in the last 10 years. During the 1980's, when Japan and South Korea were similarly criticized in the United States and Europe, Japan's exports doubled and South Korea's nearly quadrupled.
 China's reliance on joint ventures by state-owned enterprises with multinational companies seems to have moderated the international reaction. Businesses like Dell, Nike and Wal-Mart are pulling China into the global economy, in contrast to home-grown companies like Toyota, Sony and Hyundai, which lifted Japan and South Korea out of poverty.
 So while corporations like Chrysler and Ford were willing to rally opposition to imports from Japan in the 1980's, using their formidable lobbying machines and union links, most big companies today are already in China and are reluctant to insult its leaders or endanger their own footholds in a fast-growing market. Without money or lobbyists from multinationals, critics of China have been slow to coalesce or gain influence.
 "There hasn't been a really heavy hitter, a large company or companies, that has been able to be the bulldog against them," said Joan Claybrook, the president of Public Citizen, the consumer advocacy group. No industry comes close to the auto industry in influence in Washington, she said, and though Detroit was active in seeking limits on Japanese imports in the 1980's, the big domestic automakers have shown little interest in China because China still exports few cars and has become an attractive auto market in its own right.
 Together, Japan and South Korea were able to lift nearly 180 million people out of poverty through export-led growth, before that growth slowed considerably as their financial weaknesses caught up with them. Along the way, the integration of those workers into the global economy pulled down wages and increased unemployment in some industries in the West, notably auto and steel manufacturing and shipbuilding.
 China presents a much greater challenge to the global economy: how to bring prosperity to 1.3 billion people without resulting in excessive dislocations in other countries. Add India's rapid growth, and economists say that it would be a real strain on the global trading system to enrich two-fifths of the world's population through strategies heavily dependent on exporting to the richest tenth of the world, the United States and Western Europe.
 Yet if China fails -- if the bicycle does not keep moving fast enough to avoid being caught by the dragon of financial problems before a Japanese or Korean level of prosperity is reached -- then the prospects for stable growth in trade around the world could be imperiled.
 But for now, most executives are assuming that China will keep on growing. "They've become the manufacturing center of the world," said Daniel L. Vasella, the chairman and chief executive of Novartis, the pharmaceuticals giant that is Switzerland's biggest company. "It's amazing. And I'm not sure if the United States and other countries will not end up regretting it." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Bush administration is seeking restrictions on several Chinese products, like textiles from this factory in Harbin, even though such products account for only a small fraction of China's exports to the United States. (Photo by Guo Junfeng/ImagineChina via Bloomberg News)(pg. C5) Chart: "China Rising"China's exports have soared in recent years, surpassing those of one neighbor, South Korea, and gaining rapidly on those of another, Japan. Graph shows Japan, China, and South Korea exports since 1980. *Mainland China only, including exports to Hong Kong, almost all of which are re-exported. (Sources by World Trade Organization; 2003 estimates from Goldman Sachs) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (86%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); LITIGATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (70%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SLEEPWEAR & LOUNGEWEAR (67%); APPROVALS (65%); SOYBEAN FARMING (62%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%); TERRORISM (53%); FABRICS (50%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); HONG KONG (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



660 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Improvement In Finances For States 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
State government finances are improving, with fewer budget shortfalls, more control over spending and an increase in revenue growth for the first time in years, a new survey has found. 
 Still, the upswing is not strong enough to undo instantly the last three years of financial problems, the worst states have faced since World War II, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
 The latest survey by the conference, a national bipartisan group, found that 10 states had reported budget shortfalls this fiscal year, a combined $2.8 billion. A year ago, 31 states had reported a shortfall that totaled $17.5 billion. Most states begin their fiscal year on July 1. 
The report said 34 states were on target to meet or beat their revenue estimates for the first quarter of the fiscal year.
More than half the states said they were on target on the spending side of the budget, but 22 were spending more than they had budgeted. Last year, 29 states were over budget.
"It's too early to break out the sunglasses, but the fiscal storm we've endured may be breaking up," said Martin R. Stephens, a Republican who is speaker of the Utah House of Representatives and the president of the conference of legislatures.
A separate report found that state revenue from July through September grew 4.5 percent, the first overall growth after two years of declines, according to the Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany.
Tax increases accounted for much of the growth, said Nick Jenny, the author of the Rockefeller Institute report. Accounting for legislative changes and inflation, states over all saw only 0.6 percent growth.
States approved $20 billion in new or higher taxes in the last two years.
The authors took pains to warn that the positive steps could easily turn for the worse if the economy does not keep improving.
They also said that because many fill-the-gap maneuvers, like selling bonds from tobacco settlement money or raiding reserve funds, could not be repeated, next year's budgets could bring a return of spending cuts and tax increases.
"Yes, the news is better," said Corina Eckl, senior fiscal analyst for the conference of legislatures. "But the question is, Is it good? Is the lack of more bad news good news? A lot of people think it is."
Ms. Eckl said her team's interviews with state budget experts found a great deal of concern over the next budget, which most legislatures will begin considering in January. The survey did not try to quantify next year's potential budget problems.
For an example of the difficulties, consider Virginia. Gov. Mark Warner, a Democrat, warned that his state faced a $1.2 billion shortfall in its next two-year budget. Mr. Warner said lawmakers must overhaul the state's tax structure. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); TAX INCREASES (86%); TAX LAW (86%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); WORLD WAR II (57%); SECURITIES TRADING (50%) States (US); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (83%) National Conference of State Legislatures

PERSON: MARK WARNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



661 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
Building a Home for Artists in Jersey City

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
In the shadow of this city's bustling Hudson River waterfront is an enclave of early-20th-century warehouses, one of them beginning its transformation to 59 condominiums, six of which are reserved for low- and moderate-income artists. The conversion is in anticipation of a proposed designation of a cultural district, which backers argue will not only provide artists a place to live and work, but also link Jersey City's old neighborhoods with its new riverfront.
 Scaffolding veils the 1913 warehouse being converted at 140 Bay Street, where oleomargarine was once made. Many of the area's buildings are empty; others are used for storage. The stillness that hangs over the neighborhood is as startling as the view of the Statue of Liberty glimpsed from its streets. 
 The $22 million conversion, being done by Green Tree Construction of Hoboken, is carving the shuttered warehouse into studio to two-bedroom lofts with 740 to 1,890 square feet and features like oversize doors and hallways to accommodate artists' works. Prices for the market-rate units range from $259,000 to $661,550. 
There will also be 13,000 square feet of retail space, one-third of it for art-related businesses like galleries, said Vincent Wilt, a Green Tree principal. Lindemon, Winckelmann, Deupree & Martin of Jersey City designed the conversion, which is to be completed next fall.
Jersey City, home to 1,600 artists according to a study done for the city by the Washington-based Urban Land Institute, is in the process of designating this neighborhood as the Powerhouse Arts District. It is named for the landmark Hudson & Manhattan Railroad powerhouse, built in 1908, which first supplied the electricity that drove the PATH trains to Manhattan. The powerhouse building anchors the 12-block district, where theaters, restaurants and stores are also planned. 
In 1995, envisioning the neighborhood as a place where artists could also live, the city declared eight blocks a redevelopment area and christened it Waldo, for Work and Live District Overlay. That plan never progressed because developers, required to reserve at first all and later half the residences they produced for artists, "were not able to finance projects with those restrictions," said Robert Cotter, Jersey City's planning director. 
Over the last two years, however, Green Tree worked out an agreement with the city to convert 140 Bay Street. Under the agreement, said Stan H. Eason, a city spokesman, Jersey City will buy the six artists' units at $200,000 each -- Mr. Wilt said their market value would be $125,000 to $150,000 higher -- and rent them to income-qualified artists for $500 to $600 a month. In exchange, the city granted Green Tree a variance for the conversion and a 25-year tax abatement. 
Mr. Wilt said development was moving inland from the river, making new market-rate housing in the district economically feasible.
Mr. Cotter said the city was devising a new redevelopment plan that would incorporate recommendations from a report on ways to encourage development of the district, done last year by the nonprofit Urban Land Institute. Suggestions included enlarging the district to its current size; incorporating the powerhouse building, which would be redeveloped, probably as offices; encouraging developers with incentives and loosened restrictions; and including a mix of uses like offices and stores. 
As now envisioned, Mr. Cotter said, the plan, to be completed by the start of next year, will ask developers to reserve at least 10 percent of their units forlow- and moderate-income artists. In turn, they would receive an increase, not yet determined, in the number of apartments they could build.
Kathryn A. Klanderman, president of Pro Arts, a local group, called the Bay Street building "a good beginning," adding, "We are hopeful we will see others follow so the district becomes self-generating." She said she was also pleased that Green Tree worked with artists to design apartments to fit their needs.
Mr. Cotter, the city planner, said three more projects were advancing that together would produce 500 live-work residences. 
At the Bay Street conversion, Green Tree is restoring the red brick facade and decorative concrete trim of the six-story warehouse. It is also adding two levels atop the building and a four-story addition at the rear. 
Green Tree has agreed to market the remaining 53 apartments to artists for the first four months of sales, which began in October.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Plans call for this converted warehouse in Jersey City to include six apartments reserved for artists. Map of New Jersey highlighting proposed Powerhouse Arts District.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); RESTAURANTS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Housing; Art; Condominiums

PERSON: Rachelle Garbarine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Jersey City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



662 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan Legislators Step Back From Confronting China 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Friday, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
Taiwan's legislature took a half-step back on Thursday night from an immediate confrontation with China, passing a bill that would allow national referendums on constitutional and sovereignty issues only under very narrow circumstances.
 Chinese officials had tried to dissuade Taiwanese politicians from endorsing any bill to provide for referendums, but had devoted most of their criticisms to a rival measure, supported by President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan, that would have made it easy for him to call referendums. Most provisions of that bill were defeated in the legislature on Thursday night. 
 Chinese and American officials had feared that legislation permitting a referendum on Taiwanese independence from the mainland would lead to a showdown in the Taiwan Strait that neither China nor the United States wants now. 
China is trying to pay more attention to economic growth, especially in its interior provinces, while the United States has been preoccupied with Iraq and with seeking China's cooperation in trying to persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons program.
The Bush administration has reaffirmed repeatedly the principle that there is one China encompassing Taiwan and the mainland, but Chinese officials have called for the United States to do more. China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and has threatened to use military force to prevent it from becoming a fully independent nation.
Mr. Chen and his Democratic Progressive Party have tried to move Taiwan gingerly toward somewhat greater independence status and had sought a referendum bill for that purpose. But most of the provisions in the final bill came fromamendments by the opposition, which opposes full independence and has more seats in the legislature than Mr. Chen's party.
Even a narrowly written bill could still irk Beijing's leaders, by establishing a precedent for holding any referendums at all on what Beijing regards as Chinese soil.
The final bill bars referendums on changing the flag of Taiwan or Taiwan's official name, the Republic of China. The legislation also makes it extremely hard to hold a referendum to amend the Constitution and bars referendums to draft a new or completely rewritten constitution.
Following approval of the bill, lawmakers from Mr. Chen's party were so upset that they tried to schedule additional votes to undo it. They contended the law involved an unconstitutional transfer of power from the executive branch to the legislature, by allowing the legislature to call referendums but making it hard for the president to do so.
"There are certain items we find unacceptable," Hsiao Bi-khim, a member of the legislature who is the director of the party's international policy division, said in a telephone interview. She said Mr. Chen might veto the bill if it survives.
A government spokesman said the executive branch would not comment on the legislation immediately.
A provision that could still cause some dismay in Beijing is one allowing Taiwan's president to call a referendum on "national security" if the island is faced with a clear foreign threat that could erode Taiwan's territorial integrity. Even this provision did not explicitly allow a referendum on independence.
Dozens of other provisions were adopted at the suggestion of the Nationalist Party and its smaller ally, the People First Party, which favor an eventual reunification with the mainland.
Justin Chou, a Nationalist Party spokesman, said the party was "very happy with the result" of Thursday's voting. The party was not acting because of the threats from China but because of what it saw as the best course for Taiwan, he added.
There was no immediate reaction to the bill from Beijing.
Zhang Mingqing, a spokesman for the Taiwan Affairs Office of China's State Council, had warned in a televised news conference on Wednesday in Beijing that if a broad bill was passed allowing a referendum on independence with no limits, "we will make a strong reaction."
The Nationalist Party and People First Party have long resisted the passage of any referendum bill, describing such a step as unnecessary and possibly dangerous given Mr. Chen's separatist leanings. They changed their position earlier this month, favoring a limited referendum bill. 
The parties changed tack after the lead in the polls for the presidential candidate from the Nationalist Party, Lien Chan, and his vice-presidential running mate from the People First Party, James Soong, started to evaporate as Mr. Chen appealed to anti-Beijing sentiment. Polls this month have suggested that the race is too close to call.
The most important provision of Thursday's bill would make it hard for President Chen to hold a referendum to amend the Constitution, unless the amendments had already been approved by three-quarters of the legislature and the legislature scheduled the referendum.
Assembling even a simple majority of the legislature, much less three-quarters, is very hard in Taiwan's faction-ridden politics. Mr. Chen had originally pushed for a bill allowing national referendums partly on the grounds that the will of the people, expressed through a referendum, could be used to change the constitution even without a three-quarters majority of thelegislature.
Chinese officials and newspapers have accused Mr. Chen of leaning too far toward a separate Taiwan. The official New China News Agency said on Thursday that an article in a Chinese newspaper on Friday would describe Mr. Chen as "a troublemaker in international society."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Opposition legislators in Taiwan raised their fists and held posters as they celebrated the passage of legislation that would make referendums on declaring independence from China more difficult yesterday. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); VETO (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); APPROVALS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (54%) Politics and Government; Referendums; Constitutions; Elections

PERSON: Keith Bradsher; Chen Shui-Bian (Pres)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%) Taiwan; China; Taiwan

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



663 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Plan For Competition Faces Hurdles 

BYLINE:  By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
The most politically charged feature of the Medicare legislation passed by Congress -- its attempt to make the federal Medicare program compete with private managed-care plans -- is also the least likely to come to fruition on the seven-year schedule set in the bill, according to health policy experts.
 Similar plans, the experts say, have failed to find support among patients, doctors and hospitals, or even some insurers. Even people who favor the idea say the potential for trouble this time is formidable. 
 "There is really no political constituency for competition," said Robert D. Reischauer, a health policy expert and a former director of the Congressional Budget Office. 
Many people enrolled in Medicare fear that they will end up with less generous benefits in a privately run program, said Len Nichols, a vice president of the Center for Studying Health System Change, a nonprofit research group in Washington. Nor do hospitals and doctors like the idea of health insurers pushing down fees to make a profit for themselves, and health plans have balked at previous projects that threatened to squeeze their profit margins. 
In addition, many privately run Medicare plans, known as Medicare H.M.O.'s, withdrew from many areas of the country when government payments lagged, forcing millions of patients to scramble to obtain new coverage.
The bill passed by the House and Senate in the last few days calls for six-year demonstration projects in four to six cities, where private health plans would compete with the traditional Medicare program to enroll subscribers by offering a variety of new services with the goal of possibly reducing costs. 
But four previous attempts at experimenting with competition among Medicare H.M.O.'s were aborted before they began -- blocked in Congress after members heard objections from health care providers and elderly voters. 
Even some Republican senators who voted for the recent bill have adopted a "not-in-my-backyard" stance toward the pilot programs called for. Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, who helped to kill an earlier effort to try Medicare competition in Phoenix, has made clear that he will likewise oppose a test there under the current bill, and Senator Gordon H. Smith of Oregon ruled out Portland, otherwise a prime area for such a tryout, because about one-third of local Medicare enrollees are members of Medicare Plus Choice, a standard H.M.O. plan financed by Medicare.
Mr. Reischauer, who served during the Clinton administration on an advisory commission that tried to devise a pilot competition program, said the chances were slight that the experiments in the current legislation would begin in 2010, as required.
"Don't hold your breath," he said.
Supporters of the legislation envision that the health plans will offer broader benefits and better coordination of care than the existing Medicare program, in which doctors, hospitals and other providers are paid for each service or treatment and there is little incentive for anyone to take a broad view of a patient's health.
But some analysts say that private insurers will have little incentive to cut prices in competing for members because the government will pay private plans the same amount for each member that it spends on those enrolled under traditional Medicare. 
Charles N. Kahn III, president of the Federation of American Hospitals, an industry group of for-profit institutions, said Medicare should be trying new approaches "because the program faces terrific problems in the future in terms of organizing health care as well as paying for it."
But he acknowledged that "the track record of managed care in Medicare, by anybody's assessment, has to be considered mixed."
Karen Ignagni, president of the American Association of Health Plans, a trade group that lobbied on behalf of private insurers, maintains that the demonstration projects will work nonetheless because much will have changed by the time they are to begin in 2010. Health plans will have developed new types of coverage, she said, and Medicare enrollees will have more favorable experiences with managed care.
Dr. John Rowe, chief executive of Aetna, one of the largest health insurers, said he was "very optimistic" about the prospects. Aetna, which has 107,000 Medicare members, "hopes to strengthen our involvement in Medicare in 2004," he said. He expects Medicare to start permitting regional preferred-provider organizations that would offer patients more choices of doctors and hospitals. The new plans would also make coverage profitable in rural and other underserved areas by "spreading the risk across larger populations," he said.
As for the urban-area tryouts starting in 2010, he acknowledged that "programs with such a long lead time often get revised or canceled." "I think the proponents of the experiment did the right thing to include them," he added, so they can gather evidence on what works.
Tom Noland, a spokesman for Humana, which has 324,000 Medicare members, said the bill offers people under 65 and enrollees in rural areas choices of health care coverage similar to those that have "long been available to people under 65."
But under its provisions, the private plans might have trouble wooing members away from traditional Medicare. Beginning in 2006, people will be able to get coverage for prescription drugs, perhaps the biggest attraction of Medicare managed-care plans in the past, without leaving fee-for-service Medicare.
Joseph Antos, a former federal official who was in charge of Medicare experiments in the 1980's and is now the American Enterprise Institute's chief health economist, thinks that new private Medicare plans, if given the chance, would "work, sort of." A lot will depend, he indicated, on the regulations that the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid will draft and put up for comment by the public and health industry representatives.
"The legislation just describes the outline of what can be," Mr. Antos said. "The regulations will be fairly detailed proposals" about how officials there think that might come about.'
Mr. Noland of Humana also said that the regulations would be crucial. The legislation "offers a lot of opportunity for Humana," he said, "but it's too early to tell what form those opportunities might take."
Mark Lindsay, a spokesman for UnitedHealth Group, the nation's largest health insurer, said "the traditional Medicare program will remain very important" even as the bill opens more choices for consumers.
United sells Medicare supplement policies to people in traditional Medicare, under the AARP banner, and provides health coverage for the retirees of large self-insured employers.
There have been four unsuccessful attempts at price competition among Medicare H.M.O.'s, Mr. Reischauer said. The Clinton administration planned a demonstration project in Baltimore in 1996 and in Denver the next year. Then a committee of experts set up by Congress recommended similar experiments in Phoenix and Kansas City, Mo., as part of the Balanced Budget amendments of 1997. All were blocked in Congress.
"The four projects didn't involve competing against traditional Medicare, which is even more controversial," Mr. Reischauer said. 
And Medicare issues have been polarized even more since these attempts, added Mr. Kahn of the Federation of American Hospitals, a former Republican chief of staff on the House Ways and Means Committee. 
"There is now an ideological bloc in Congress that says we can't change Medicare," he said. "I think the experimentation can be done, but it's not a slam-dunk." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (97%); LEGISLATION (91%); INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); BUDGETS (69%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Law and Legislation; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Privatization; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: GORDON SMITH (58%); JON KYL (58%) Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (66%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (52%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



664 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1761 words

HEADLINE: New Light on Old F.B.I. Fight; 
Decades of Surveillance of Puerto Rican Groups

BYLINE:  By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
In 1965, the Federal Bureau of Investigation wanted to tap the home telephone of a dying Pedro Albizu Campos, then the titular head of Puerto Rico's Nationalist Party. But there was a problem: he did not have a phone.
 So while federal agents leaned on the telephone company to speed up Mr. Albizu Campos's installation order, they found out that his family and friends sometimes used a neighbor's phone, and they tapped that one. The agents were eavesdropping to prepare for a possible violent reaction to Mr. Albizu Campos's death. What were they after? "Current, precise information as to condition of subject," the agents in San Juan wrote to J. Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. "Plans to foment assassination attempts and other violence at the time of subject's death." 
 This radiogram is part of secret files on Puerto Rico's independence movement that the F.B.I. kept for decades. For the last three years, the declassified files have been trickling into a tiny office at Hunter College in New York, a few hundred pages at a time. There, amid boxes neatly stacked on wall metal racks, a researcher and a group of students working for Hunter's Center for Puerto Rican Studies are painstakingly producing a detailed inventory of the files. 
Of the 1.5 million to 1.8 million pages in the files, about 120,000 have arrived. There are many blacked-out portions. But at a time civil libertarians worry that the F.B.I. may be turning to past controversial methods to fight terrorism, the boxes at Hunter give a sense of the lengths to which the government kept tabs on an old enemy: those fighting for Puerto Rican independence.
Puerto Rico, a commonwealth of the United States, has strong pro-statehood and pro-commonwealth movements, the latter made up of those who want to keep the status quo or some modified version of it. But in the 1930's, 1940's and early 1950's, the independence movement was much more widespread than it is today, and ranged from legal political parties to violent militant groups. 
Many Americans became aware of the independence struggle when, on Nov. 1, 1950, two Puerto Rican nationalists tried to shoot their way into Blair House, where President Truman was living while the White House was being remodeled. Mr. Truman was not injured, but one of the Puerto Ricans and a White House guard were killed in the gunfire.
The F.B.I. papers arriving at Hunter so far span six decades, from 1936 to 1995. They track everything from the Puerto Rican Independence Party (still active and known as PIP) to student demonstrations and workers' strikes to bomb explosions and assassination attempts as part of an armed struggle.
They include a 1961 directive from Mr. Hoover to seek information on 12 independence movement leaders, six of them operating in New York, "concerning their weaknesses, morals, criminal records, spouses, children, family life, educational qualifications and personal activities other than independence activities." The instructions were given under the domestic surveillance program known as Cointelpro, which aimed at aggressively monitoring antiwar, leftist and other groups in the United States and disrupting them.
In the case of Puerto Rican independence groups, Mr. Hoover's 1961 memo refers to "our efforts to disrupt their activities and compromise their effectiveness." Scholars say the papers provide invaluable additions to the recorded history of Puerto Rico. "I expect that this will alter somewhat the analysis of why independence hasn't made it," said Felix V. Matos Rodriguez, director of the center at Hunter. "In the 1940's, independence was the second-largest political movement in the island, (after support for commonwealth status), and a real alternative. But it was criminalized."
The existence of the F.B.I. papers came to light during a House Appropriations subcommittee hearing in 2000, when Representative Jose E. Serrano of New York questioned Louis J. Freeh, then F.B.I. director, on the issue. Mr. Freeh gave the first public acknowledgment of the federal government's Puerto Rican surveillance and offered a mea culpa.
"Your question goes back to a period, particularly in the 1960's, when the F.B.I. did operate a program that did tremendous destruction to many people, to the country and certainly to the F.B.I.," Mr. Freeh said, according to transcripts of the hearing. Mr. Freeh said that he would make the files available "and see if we can redress some of the egregious illegal action, maybe criminal action, that occurred in the past."
The F.B.I. did not work alone. It often used information provided by the Police Department of Puerto Rico.
Discovery of the police files caused a public outcry in the 1980's in Puerto Rico and prompted hundreds of civil rights lawsuits. An official apology came in 1999 from Gov. Pedro J. Rossello, who set up a fund to compensate those who were denied jobs, harassed or discredited as a result of blacklisting.
Both the F.B.I. and the police department in Puerto Rico have made their files available to investigation subjects who claim them. One of those subjects is Ramon Bosque-Perez, a sociologist and the researcher now leading the effort at the Hunter center to preserve the F.B.I. historical trove.
Mr. Bosque-Perez was one of the authors of a 1997 book on the Puerto Rican police dossiers, known as "carpetas." He said the first inkling that he was under investigation came in the late 1960's, when he was still in high school and politically active. Two plainclothes police officers visited his mother, he said, and advised her to keep him out of trouble.
When Mr. Bosque-Perez, who later became president of the main pro-independence group at the University of Puerto Rico, claimed his surveillance files, he learned that he had been tracked through the early 1980's. His files recorded his arrest for refusing to register for the draft and his participation in public events beginning in high school, he said.
But his much bulkier police dossier, running more than 2,000 pages, he said, included such minutiae as the license plates of the cars he drove and a partial guest list of a wedding he attended.
"The extent of the invasion of privacy and of the threat to the basic right of citizens to express themselves politically was surprising," said Mr. Bosque-Perez, who said it took him 10 years to obtain his bachelor's degree because his political activities led to frequent suspensions by college administrators.
The F.B.I.files on Mr. Albizu Campos, who headed the Nationalist Party from 1930 until his death in 1965, fill two boxes with 4,700 pages, including meticulous medical records from a long hospital stay at Columbus Hospital in Manhattan (later part of Cabrini Medical Center).
"Writing most of the night," a nurse reported in her overnight notes for April, 11, 1945. "Unable to sleep."
Regarded as the father of Puerto Rico's independence movement by his followers, Mr. Albizu Campos launched a militant crusade in Puerto Rico in the 1930's to sever ties with the United States. He served prison sentences for subversion, attempted murder and conspiring to overthrow the government. It was his followers who tried to assassinate President Truman in 1950, and on March 1, 1954, shot and wounded five congressmen from the visitors' gallery of the House of Representatives.
But members of radical groups were not the only ones being watched. Individuals and groups who worked legally for the cause of independence are also in the files. One 1972 memo listed the number of meetings eight major pro-independence parties and groups had held over a period of five months.
Some of the most interesting papers track the political development of Luis Munoz Marin, Puerto Rico's first elected governor and founder of the Popular Democratic Party, both architects ofthe island's current American commonwealth status. Mr. Munoz Marin, who served four terms, started out as a young socialist and was deemed to be "anti-American" by informants who in the early 1940's reported about his mistress, his political associates and his drinking.
In 1941, when Mr. Munoz Marin was already president of the Puerto Rican Senate, an F.B.I. agent described him as "a political opportunist supported by radical politicians who desire Puerto Rico's independence from the United States."
"He has no moral character, he is absolutely irresponsible financially, but he is probably the most brilliant politician on the political horizon of Puerto Rico," the agent wrote.
In an interview, Representative Serrano said that most of the surveillance was improper and that some of the violence attributed to "independentistas" was, in fact, the work of infiltrators trying to destroy the movement. Since his Washington office began receiving the F.B.I. files in 2000, he has forwarded copies of the material to both Hunter College and the Judiciary Committee of the Puerto Rican Senate.
Kevin Wilkinson, the F.B.I. Congressional liaison who is overseeing the transfer of the documents to Mr. Serrano's office, said the files must be viewed in the context of their times -- the cold war, anti-Vietnam War protests, radical groups. "There were incidents of violence and destruction in Puerto Rico by groups that were considered terrorists, like the Macheteros," he said of one of the violent groups.
But he said that "the whole playing field" has changed since then, and that current federal guidelines and oversight would prevent the F.B.I. from taking action against people peacefully exercising their First Amendment rights.
Kenneth D. McClintock, the Senate minority leader in Puerto Rico and an advocate of statehood, noted that government persecution was not the only factor contributing to the decline of independence fervor. There were also economic and political considerations, he said. But he said of the surveillance, "Undoubtedly, it had a chilling effect on the political opposition in Puerto Rico."
Mr. Matos Rodriguez, the director of the Center for Puerto Rican Studies, one of the largest Latino archives in the United States and the only one focusing on the history of the Puerto Rican diaspora, wants to see the first batch of F.B.I. files posted on the Center's Web site, www.centropr.org, by spring. While he expects the collection to be the subject of academic study, he said it may also spark new -- and uncomfortable -- public dialogues.
"The other side of the story is the extensive network of Puerto Ricans telling on each other," he said. "This could not have happened without the collaboration of many people in Puerto Rico."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ramon Bosque-Perez, who is leading an effort to preserve a record of F.B.I. surveillance of members of the independence movement in Puerto Rico. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); Oscar Collazo, center, who tried to kill President Harry S. Truman in 1950. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US TERRITORIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ESPIONAGE (75%); ASSASSINATION (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); BOMBINGS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); TERRORISM (68%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); POLITICS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (60%) Politics and Government; Informers; Freedom and Human Rights; Archives and Records

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%) Hunter College; Federal Bureau of Investigation

PERSON: Mireya Navarro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) Puerto Rico

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



665 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: We Are Where We Shop 

BYLINE:  By Sharon Zukin; Sharon Zukin, professor of sociology at Brooklyn College, is author of "Point of Purchase: How Shopping Changed American Culture."

 BODY:
Today, according to ancient American custom, thousands of moms and dads will wake before dawn, jump into their cars and drive to the mall. There they will wait patiently in the parking lot for the doors to open. Then they will race their shopping carts through the broad, familiar aisles of our nation's most popular discount stores, filling them with DVD players, wide-screen TV's, Hokey Pokey Elmos -- something's always on sale. Before noon, if they're lucky, they will emerge triumphant from behind the cash registers with the trophies of their early-morning hunt.
 While the most coveted trophies may change from year to year, the ritual does not. During the past century, America has transformed itself into a shopping nation. Since the 1870's -- the dawn of mass-produced consumer goods -- new stores, products and promotions have continually surrounded us with visions of abundance and supplied us with the means to fulfill our dreams. 
 Low prices reflect democracy. Brand names represent our search for a better life. And designer boutiques embody the promise of an ever-improving self. Yet Americans have made a Faustian deal with the culture of shopping, and especially with bargain culture. The retail prices may be low, but the social costs are high.
Consider, for example, Wal-Mart, which is the largest company in the United States based on revenue, with annual sales last year of more than $244 billion. Wal-Mart's reputation for bringing a wide variety of goods to small towns and rural communities gives the company leverage over town councils and planning boards, which are often asked to grant zoning concessions or relax environmental standards. And Wal-Mart's frequent position as the only big employer in town allows it leeway to hire workers at low wages.
But Wal-Mart's strategies aren't exactly new. F. W. Woolworth, who opened his first five-and-dime store in 1879, succeeded by providing a wide array of common household and personal goods at standardized, low prices. During the glory years of the five-and-dime, men shopped there for hardware and stationery, women bought sewing supplies and hair ornaments, and children chose toys and Big Chief writing tablets.
Like Sam Walton, who founded Wal-Mart in 1962, Woolworth was able to keep prices low by ruthless cost cutting -- using self-service to reduce the number of sales clerks, paying them low wages and encouraging tight control over inventory. Woolworth also introduced employee stock ownership -- but only for managers, who, unlike the sales clerks, were all male. And Woolworth fiercely opposed labor unions.
Compared with consumers in other countries, Americans have benefited from these policies. Since the 19th century, the middle class has depended on low prices for consumer goods -- mainly food, clothing and, until recently, housing -- to maintain its standard of living. To a great extent, however, these low prices are encouraged not only by the market but also by the government.
Almost every president of the 20th century acknowledged the major role of consumption in the American economy. Bill Clinton supported free trade, which keeps prices low by encouraging companies to make goods in low-wage countries and sell them in the United States. More recently, politicians have joined merchants to encourage Americans to shop their way out of recession, for example, or the trauma of a terrorist attack.
Throughout his career, Sam Walton kept the motto of an earlier entrepreneur, James Cash Penney, above his desk: "Serve the public . . . to its complete satisfaction."
But Walton also expanded the chain with a methodical, state-by-state saturation of local markets -- putting smaller, locally owned stores out of business. Unlike Sears, Wal-Mart made an effort to appeal to women by featuring health and beauty products. And unlike many department stores, Wal-Mart consistently resisted going upscale. Most important, in the 1980's, Wal-Mart largely abandoned American-made goods for imports and switched from mostly generics to nationally advertised brands.
Now shoppers could find cheap designer jeans and brand-name refrigerators in the same store. This one-stop shopping offered low prices, high quality and convenience -- an ideal situation for shoppers of modest means. But it also attracted shoppers with higher income levels. Like the upper-class women who shopped at Woolworth during the Depression, they could always find something to buy.
It is social equality -- of a sort: instead of reducing differences between the classes, we are satisfied to see them shopping in the same discount store. Instead of supporting local businesses, we shop at giant chains. Instead of raising incomes, we lower prices. Americans have accepted bargain culture as our vision of democracy.
When the economy is uncertain, the appeal of bargain culture grows. But low prices are not really a bargain. They may allow us to shop more often, but they weaken our ability to pay the bill.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Geoffrey Lorenzen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); FASHION DESIGNERS (66%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (63%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); CD & DVD DRIVES (56%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Zoning; Social Conditions and Trends; Consumers and Consumption; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (86%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (86%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (86%)

PERSON: Sharon Zukin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



666 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE BASKETBALL; 
A Coach Becomes the Talk of Vermont

BYLINE:  By PETE THAMEL

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt. 

 BODY:
When Tom Brennan pulled into an old general store in the tiny town of Hancock, Vt., the man wearing bib overalls behind the counter blurted, "Whoa, hey, hey."
 "That was all he had to say," Brennan said. "I knew what he meant and he knew what he meant." 
 That salute is one of thousands Brennan has received since he coached the University of Vermont to the N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament last season for the first time in the university's history. 
In Burlington, a town of 38,889 known best as the home of Ben & Jerry's ice cream and the birthplace of the jam band Phish, Vermont basketball is now chic. Despite getting thumped by Arizona in the first round of the men's Division I tournament, 80-51, the trip thrust Brennan into the national spotlight and created an unlikely buzz around Vermont. 
"Given the economy and the situation in Iraq, there was much to be distressed about, and the Catamounts gave us something to cheer about," Mayor Peter Clavelle of Burlington said.
This fall, Vermont received a vote in the Associated Press top 25 poll and was invited to participate in the Preseason National Invitation Tournament, each for the first time. The Catamounts lost thatgame against Nevada, and a second game against Iona, but Brennan remains as effusive as ever.
He claims that around town he is still better known for his other job: co-host of Vermont's most popular morning radio show. 
Brennan is on the classic rock station WCVP-FM with Steve Cormier from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. weekdays, unless basketball gets in the way. "Corm and the Coach" crack wise on the day's news, deliver early-morning prank calls to opposing coaches in the America East Conference and crush Howard Stern and Don Imus in the local ratings. 
After the Yankees won Game 7 of the American League Championship Series, Brennan composed a poem that he read on the air, tweaking not only Red Sox fans but also one of Vermont's rivals:
How about old Grady Little? 
You wonder how can he be so bad? 
And then you remember,
"Oh yeah, he's a New Hampshire grad."
But the show transcends sports, diving into politics, television and the happenings around town. Brennan has been delivering his trademark line, "Wake up, you sleepyhead," for 11 years, but it was not until last March that he made noise nationally. 
That happened when guard David Hehn hit a 10-foot jumper in the waning seconds of Vermont's America East tournament final against Boston University. Brennan, who has a career record of 269-337, instantly became a darling.
Along with the attention came an outpouring of support from his fellow coaches, who had all pulled for Brennan and understood that he had limited scholarships (until this season) and that not having a local recruiting base had handcuffed his program.
Boston University Coach Dennis Wolff called to congratulate Brennan the day after the conference final. At the Final Four, Syracuse Coach Jim Boeheim, who was preparing his Orangemen for the N.C.A.A. final, took the time to walk across the street and congratulate Brennan.
"It's a great story," Boeheim said. "It's tough to make a run up there."
Wolff said: "He's a throwback kind of guy and a good friend. After I got over the loss, I was very happy for him." 
This season, Vermont has two players who have won most valuable player honors in the America East Conference and a schedule packed with major conference teams, including U.C.L.A. tomorrow in Los Angeles. There are expectations in Burlington, and Brennan has embraced them. 
"Nervous is when you're 3-24 and you know that you're not going to be any good next year," Brennan said. "That's when you get nervous. I really, really feel like we're playing with house money." 
To appreciate Vermont's success (it has won 20 games in consecutive seasons), it is first necessary to understand its depths.
Vermont won nine games from 1987 through 1989, said the former Catamounts star Matt Johnson, who was watching a practice recently. Back then, the university did not bother pulling out all the sections of bleachers in Patrick Gymnasium (a k a Little Lambeau), the 3,228-seat gymnasium, because so few people attended games. 
"We could thank all the fans individually for coming after the games," Johnson said. As he was speaking, Brennan walked past and said, "If it wasn't for him, I'd be selling insurance right now." 
Instead, by the mid-1990's Brennan, who was hired before the 1986-87 season, had established Vermont as a contender in the America East, helping his home-court advantage by taking coaches out in Burlington the night before games and then waking them up early to appear on his show.
"My first year in the league, he fattened me up, loosened me up and then beat me," the former Delaware Coach Mike Brey, now at Notre Dame, said. "Every other year, he woke me up at 6 a.m. I was 1-4 in Burlington in my career."
Vermont's final leap to the top of the league came after the recruitment of three key players: the juniors Taylor Coppenrath and T. J. Sorrentine and the senior Matt Sheftic, who will miss this season because of a knee injury. Coppenrath, a 6-foot-9 forward, and Sheftic, a burly 6-8 center, are both from Vermont. The serendipity of having two big and talented in-state players pushed Vermont over the top. 
In Coppenrath's hometown, West Barnet, which has a population of less than 100, his father lent game tapes to the two general stores for people around town to watch.
"People were excited," Coppenrath said. "People you'd never think about were talking about Vermont basketball."
Sorrentine, the America East player of the year two years ago, missed the magical N.C.A.A. season with two broken wrists. Sorrentine, Coppenrath and Sheftic will return next season. 
"It's awesome," Sorrentine said. "I don't know how to explain losing 11 straight my freshman year and then having the team go to the N.C.A.A. tournament."
Fortunately, Sorrentine does not have to. His coach is paid to do the talking.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A sports article on Nov. 28 about the University of Vermont basketball coach, Tom Brennan, referred imprecisely to the relative popularity of early-morning radio shows in the Burlington area, including "Corm and the Coach," with Brennan as co-host. While that program, on WCPV-FM, is popular in the Burlington area, it rates seventh -- and behind the fourth-rated Howard Stern show on WIZN-FM -- among listeners aged 12 and older in the metropolitan survey area of Burlington and Plattsburgh, N.Y., as defined by Arbitron.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vermont Coach Tom Brennan is also a co-host of the state's highest-rated morning radio show.; Brennan led the Catamounts to their first N.C.A.A. men's tournament berth last season and their first Preseason N.I.T. appearance this season. (Photographs by Alden Pellett for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); BASKETBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); MAYORS (78%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ICE CREAM (75%); WATER SPORTS (70%); POP & ROCK (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (69%) Basketball; Radio; Coaches and Managers

COMPANY: BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (70%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (83%) University of Vermont

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (70%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%)

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (77%) Pete Thamel; Tom Brennan

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) VERMONT, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2003 



667 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Rents Decline Across U.S. As Families Buy Homes
While apartment rents have continued to rise in many big cities on the coasts, including New York and Los Angeles, they are falling in more than 80 percent of the metropolitan areas.
 Low interest rates have persuaded many families to leave the rental market and to buy their first homes at the same time that developers have been putting up thousands of new rental buildings, leaving many landlords desperate to fill vacant apartments. Page A1. 

Sanctions Delayed for 10 Days
The World Trade Organization has agreed to a 10-day delay before Europe can impose $2.2 billion in sanctions against the United States in response to steel tariffs imposed by President Bush last year. Pascal Lamy, Europe's top trade official, has warned the Bush administration that if the steel tariffs are not lifted, Europe will proceed with more than $2 billion in sanctions on imports of steel, clothing, citrus fruits and other agriculture products from the United States. C2.

Disney Plays Set for Broadway
With three hits already on Broadway, Walt Disney is preparing another three productions, including "Mary Poppins" -- based on the classic P.L. Travers children's books and the 1964 movie version that starred Julie Andrews as an umbrella-toting, chore-dispensing governess -- and a musical version of "Tarzan." A1.

Nuclear Agency Plans New Rules
After 10 years of struggling to make reactor owners modify their plants to protect electrical cables from fire, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is now proposing instead to amend its own rules to retroactively legalize an alternate strategy used by many plants but not formally approved. A12.

President of Gucci Brand to Stay
Giacomo Santucci, the president of the Gucci brand within the Gucci Group, has said he will stay on despite the departure of Gucci's chief executive and star designer, an executive close to the company said. C3.

Strike Ends at Nestle Plant
A long strike at a Nestle plant in South Korea came to an end, but the fear of labor unrest continues to loom over the South Korean economy. South Korea has been roiled by strikes this year that have come even as unions face dwindling support. C3.

Halliburton Unit Is Accused of Bias
Five black veterans have accused the Kellogg Brown & Root, a unit of Halliburton with strong ties to the military, of engaging in racial discrimination. C2.

Nasdaq Continues to Gain
The Nasdaq composite index gained 1.5 percent in November, closing the month at 1,960.26. It has climbed 46.8 percent so far in 2003. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 0.25 point, to 1,058.20 yesterday, and gained 0.7 percent in November. The Dow Jones rose 2.89 points, to 9,782.46, and slipped 0.2 percent in November. C4.

Senators Seek Delay in Boeing Deal
Two United States senators urged the Defense Department to postpone finalizing a contract with Boeing to acquire 100 air-refueling tankers in light of the recent dismissals of two top Boeing executives. C4.

Bank of Ireland Picks Hewlett
Hewlett-Packard has won a seven-year computer services contract from the Bank of Ireland that is valued at $600 million. C4.

Chip Sales Strong in October
Worldwide chip sales in October were $15.4 billion, up 6.8 percent from September, according to data from a semiconductor group. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,782.46 up 2.89Nasdaq composite -- 1,960.26 up 6.9510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.33% up 0.09The euro -- $1.1987 up 0.0052The dollar -- 109.55 yen 0.57 Graph tracks weekly closes of the Nasdaq Composite since January 2003.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (88%); CHILDREN (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (70%); IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); ENERGY REGULATION (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (64%); RACE & RACISM (64%); DISCRIMINATION (60%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); AGRICULTURE (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GUCCI GROUP NV (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (55%); NESTLE SA (52%); KBR INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (55%); NESN (SWX) (52%); KBR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (52%); NAICS238110 POURED CONCRETE FOUNDATION & STRUCTURE CONTRACTORS (51%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (51%); NAICS237120 OIL & GAS PIPELINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (51%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (51%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (64%); PASCAL LAMY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



668 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Anti-American Iraqi Forces Are Tracking U.S. Troops
Bush administration officials are increasingly concerned that anti-American forces in Iraq have cobbled together a relatively effective system to track the activities of the American military. These concerns help explain the extraordinary secrecy surrounding President Bush's surprise Thanksgiving Day visit. A1

Many Iraqis found the visits of President Bush and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton irrelevant. American soldiers seemed bolstered by the visits, but the measure for Iraqis was whether life there will change as a result. A8

Terror Arrests in Europe
The Italian and German police arrested three North Africans as part of an investigation into a network that they said has been recruiting fighters for Iraq, providing new hints of an increasingly organized movement of fighters from Europe. Two other suspects were being sought. A3

U.N. Report on Israeli Barrier
Secretary General Kofi Annan declared that the barrier Israel is building in the West Bank is causing social and economic harm to Palestinians and undermining the peace effort, but stopped short of making a legal pronouncement. A6

China Changes Position on Law
Beijing shifted its response to new Taiwanese legislation on national referendums. A statement by a spokesman for the Chinese government's Taiwan Affairs Office warned against any attempt to separate Taiwan from China. A7

EDUCATION

Reformers of College Sports
The only point of agreement among the increasingly vocal, yet frustrated and fragmented, reformers of college athletics is that sometime soon, something will happen to alert America to the clash between values of commercialization and those of higher education. D1

NATIONAL A9-12

Low Interest Rates Soften Apartment Rental Market
Apartment rents have fallen in more than 80 percent of metropolitan areas across the United States as low interest rates have helped many people buy their first homes. A1

Leaks Fuel Jackson Coverage
Michael Jackson has yet to be officially charged in the child molesting case against him, but the trial before the trial is off and running, fueled by leaks from both sides. A9

Police Link 2 Ohio Shootings
At least 2 of 10 recent shootings along Interstate 270 in Columbus, Ohio, are related, law enforcement officials said. A9

Lucrative Stolen Laptop Trade
Neatly dressed thieves who walk into workplaces looking for expensive laptops or purses are a growing problem for businesses. Since laptops became commonplace in the mid-1990's, criminals have sought them in particular. A12

New Nuclear Rules Proposed
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission, after 10 years of struggling to make reactor owners modify their plants to protect electrical cables from fire, is now proposing instead to amend its own rules, retroactively legalizing an alternate strategy used by many plants but never formally approved. A12

Bush Faces New Fiscal Scrutiny
President Bush is heading into 2004 facing a growing budget deficit, frustration among some Republicans about what they describe as a lack of fiscal discipline and a challenge in assembling an election-year agenda that will not plunge the government deeper into debt, administration officials say. A10

Edwards Faces a 'Stature Gap'
Senator John Edwards of North Carolina brandishes a booklet full of policy positions at almost every campaign stop. But his candidacy is dogged by questions about his relative inexperience in government and his youthful appearance. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Manhattan Stadium Plan Moves Ahead, Slowly
State and city officials say they are inching toward an agreement with the owners of the New York Jets to split the $1.5 billion cost of building a new football stadium on Manhattan's West Side. But there are a number of unresolved issues that could delay or even scuttle the project. B1

$7 Million Ballot Question
A report being filed by the mayor's office with the Board of Elections disclosed that Mayor Bloomberg spent more than $7 million of his own money to promote his proposal for nonpartisan elections that was rejected by voters. B1

Dispute Over Lobbying
The head of the state lobbying commission and Attorney General Eliot Spitzer are at odds over the interpretation of state lobbying rules. Each side is trying to circumvent the other over several issues involving a hip-hop impresario who has been trying to soften the state's drug laws. B3

Religion Journal B6

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES A13

ARTS & IDEAS B9-26

Disney Plans 3 More Musicals
The Walt Disney Company, with three hits on Broadway, is preparing has another three musicals nearing production, each based on a Disney movie. Disney may soon dominate the theater. A1

Men Seen to Hold Most TV Jobs
Women make up 22 percent of television creators, executive producers, producers, directors, writers, editors and directors of photography, according to a study by a professor at San Diego State University. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Russian Oil Merger Suspended
Sibneft, a Russian oil producer, suspended its $13 billion merger with Russia's biggest oil company, Yukos, taking its embattled partner by surprise and roiling markets. C1

Retail Spending Disappoints
Holiday shoppers, intent on bargains, descended on America's malls, with one trade group projecting a 5.7 percent increase in spending over last year, but many retailers had hoped for more. C1

Halliburton Accused of Bias
Five black veterans have accused Kellogg Brown & Root, the engineering subsidiary of Halliburton, of engaging in racial discrimination. C2

Delay for Trade Sanctions
The World Trade Organization has agreed to a 10-day delay before Europe can impose $2.2 billion in sanctions against the United States in response to steel tariffs imposed by President Bush last year. C2

Stocks Finish a Strong Week
The Dow was up 2.89 points, to 9,782.46, 153.93 points higher than last week's close. The Nasdaq rose 6.95 points, to 1,960.26, 66.38 points above last week's close. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: America's sugar daddies; upping the campaign ante; a lead paint law we can live with.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B20
TV Listings B26
Crossword B24
Weather A11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (85%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ARRESTS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (74%); CHILD ABUSE (73%); BUDGETS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (70%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); PROPERTY LEASES (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (64%); ENERGY REGULATION (63%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); FUEL SPILLS (62%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (60%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); THANKSGIVING (56%); REFERENDUMS (51%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); CHINA (93%); TAIWAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



669 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: No Easy Road to Peace 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "The Magical Solution," by William Safire (column, Nov. 26), disparages the Geneva accord as yet another "sure-fire" solution to the violence between Israel and the Palestinians. 
No one involved in the attempts to find peace thinks that it will be easy. They do feel that finding a peace agreement is essential. 
 Ariel Sharon was elected on the promise that a forceful military approach would quell the Palestinian violence and bring security and prosperity to Israelis. The slogan used was "There is no choice." His policies have resulted in an increasing spiral of death and a crumbling economy.
In the next elections, Israelis will have a choice between Mr. Sharon's failed policies and a clear peace plan. May they have the wisdom to make the correct decision.

LEWIS REISMAN
Livingston, N.J., Nov. 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); POLITICS (66%) Elections; Politics and Government; Palestinians

COMPANY: ACCORD AS (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (91%)

PERSON: Lewis Reisman; Ariel (Prime Min) Sharon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



670 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Softens Stance Against Taiwanese Law 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
Beijing shifted its response on Friday to new Taiwanese legislation on national referendums, expressing concern about the law and repeating previous warnings to this island against seeking formal independence but stopping short of any threats.
 The official New China News Agency had initially posted a commentary on its Internet site noting that the referendum legislation removed "the imminent danger of Taiwanese independence." 
 By Friday evening, a separate brief statement was added, quoting a spokesman for the Chinese government's Taiwan Affairs Office. "We are deeply concerned about relevant things concerning 'referendum legislation' in Taiwan and are paying close attention to the development of the issue," he said, adding no specifics. 
The statement closed with a warning that any attempt to separate Taiwan from China "will not be tolerated absolutely." But in contrast with three warnings earlier this week of the possible use of force if a broad referendum law passed, the statement made no explicit threats.
Beijing has regarded Taiwan as a renegade province ever since the Nationalists lost China's civil war to the Communists in 1949 and retreated here.
The return on Friday to vague, albeit critical statements, was read by experts here as a sign of easing tension. A Chinese statement earlier this week had referred to Taiwan as a "shen sheng," or sacred, part of China, a term seldom used in recent years and viewed in Taiwan as a signal of great anger and intransigence in Beijing.
"I had goose bumps coming up when I saw it," said Su Chi, an influential Nationalist Party adviser on Taiwan Straits issues and a former minister for relations with China.
President Chen Shui-bian and his Democratic Progressive Party backed away on Thursday afternoon from previous demands by the party's pro-independence wing for broad legislation authorizing the use of referendums to pursue changes in the Constitution and sovereignty. In the end, the legislature approved a narrow version supported by the Nationalist Party and People First Party, which favor eventual political reunification with the mainland.
Politicians here said in interviews on Friday that a new consensus seemed to be emerging that the presidential campaign now getting started should be fought more on economic issues than on the potentially inflammatory sovereignty issue.
The more moderate tone follows several strong statements from American officials to Taiwanese reporters in Washington in the last week that the Bush administration does not want a crisis in the Taiwan Strait.
A senior Taiwanese government official spoke Friday of an acute wariness of angering the United States by allowing any crisis to develop with China when the Bush administration was already preoccupied with Iraq and North Korea. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%) Referendums ; Law and Legislation

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%) Taiwan; China

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



671 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Laundry in Queens Agrees to Raise Pay After 9-Hour Strike 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
A large industrial laundry in Queens, Jung Sun, agreed to a tentative contract yesterday, just nine hours after more than 100 of its workers went on strike.
 Union leaders said the workers walked out after Jung Sun insisted on a wage freeze and refused to accept a contract that was signed in recent days by 36 other New York City laundries. 
 But after workers spent much of the day picketing in front of Jung Sun's plant on 37-10 24th Street in Long Island City, the company accepted the same contract embraced by the other laundry companies. Jung Sun cleans linens for hospitals, restaurants and hotels, including the Algonquin and Trump International. 
The workers at Jung Sun, like those at New York's other unionized laundries, average about $8.60 an hour. In negotiations with the union, Unite, Jung Sun signed the industrywide contract, which provides for a raise of 30 cents in the first year, 20 cents in the second and 30 cents in the third, according to union officials. That translates into a 9.3 percent raise over the three-year agreement.
"We think this contract reflects progress for the workers in this industry, substantial progress," said Wilfredo Larancuent, manager of the laundry and dry-cleaning division of Unite, formerly known as the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees. "We granted zero concessions in this contract."
He said Jung Sun and the 36 other laundries, which employ nearly 4,000 workers, also agreed to give the workers a $300 bonus in the contract's second year and to increase spending on health insurance and pensions.
He praised the laundries for agreeing to raises, acknowledging that this may result in an increase in linen service prices for hotels and restaurants.
"We want the hotels and the restaurants to realize that laundry workers are people, too, and they deserve wage increases," Mr. Larancuent said. "They're an essential part of the city's economy."
Jung Sun had contended that it could not afford wage increases because business to hotels and restaurants fell after the terrorist attack on Sept. 11, 2001.
With 37 of the city's 38 unionized laundries signing contracts, union officials said they planned to hold negotiations with World Cleaners of Brooklyn this Monday. They threatened to go on strike unless a settlement was reached at that session. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); STRIKES (91%); INDUSTRIAL LAUNDRIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); LINEN SUPPLY (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Laundries and Laundry Aids; Labor; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Strikes

ORGANIZATION: UNITE HERE (54%)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



672 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: The Promised Land 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BROOKS; E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The history of American conservatism is an exodus tale. It begins in the wilderness, in the early 1950's, with Russell Kirk, Milton Friedman and William F. Buckley Jr. writing tracts for small bands of true believers. 
 Conservatives crashed into the walls of power during the Goldwater debacle of 1964, and then breached those walls with Reagan's triumph 16 years later. But even with Reagan in the Oval Office, Republicans were not the majority party. Democrats controlled the House, and few Reaganites actually knew how to run a government. 
 In 1994, with the Gingrich revolution, the conservatives strode closer to the center of power. But even then, they were not quite there. For the rule of exodus tales is that the chiefs who lead in the wilderness and storm the citadels do not get to govern once their troops have occupied the city. Renegades are too combative to govern well.
It was only this week that we can truly say the exodus story is over, with the success of the Medicare reform bill. This week the G.O.P. behaved as a majority party in full. The Republicans used the powers of government to entrench their own dominance. They used their control of the federal budget to create a new entitlement, to woo new allies and service a key constituency group, the elderly. 
From now on, as Tony Blankley observed in The Washington Times, if you work at an interest group and you want to know what's going on with your legislation, you have to go to the Republicans. The Democrats don't even know the state of play.
If you are the AARP, seeking a benefit, you have to go to the Republicans. If you are a centrist Democrat like John Breaux or Max Baucus seeking to pass legislation, you have to work with the Republicans.
Under the leadership of Bush, Frist, Hastert and DeLay, the Republicans have built a fully mature establishment of activist groups, think tanks and lobbyists, which is amazingly aloof from the older Washington establishment (not to mention the media establishment). Republicans now speak in that calm, and to their opponents infuriating, manner of those who believe they were born to rule.
The Democrats, meanwhile, behave just as the Republicans did when they were stuck in the minority. They complain about their outrageous mistreatment by the majority. They are right to complain. The treatment is outrageous. But the complaints only communicate weakness.
Democrats indulge in the joys of opposition. They get to sputter about fiscal irresponsibility, just as the green-eyeshade Republicans used to, as themajority party uses the power of the purse to buy votes. They get to make wild charges. They get to propose solutions that ignore inconvenient realities. They never have to betray their principles to get something done, and so they savor their own righteousness. 
Minority parties are pure but defeated; governing parties are impure but victorious. The Republicans are now in the habit of winning, and are on permanent offense on all fronts. They offer tax cuts to stimulate the economy and please business. They nominate conservative judges to advance conservative social reform and satisfy religious conservatives. They fight a war on terror. They have even come to occupy the Democratic holy of the holies, the welfare state. In exchange for massive new spending, they demand competitive reforms. 
The only drawback is that now, as the governing party, they have to betray some of the principles that first animated them. This week we saw dozens of conservatives, who once believed in limited government, vote for a new spending program that will cost over $2 trillion over the next 20 years. 
In the past three years, federal education spending has increased by 65 percent. Unemployment benefit payments are up by 85 percent.
Many conservatives are dismayed over what has happened to their movement as it has grown fat and happy in the Promised Land. A significant rift has opened up between the conservative think tankers and journalists, who are loyal to ideas, and the K Street establishmentarians, who are loyal to groups.
The good news for Democrats is that the K Street establishment will slowly win this struggle. The majority will ossify. It will lose touch with its principles and eventually crumble under the weight of its own spoils. The bad news for Democrats is that, as Republicans can tell you, the ossification process is maddeningly slow. After the New Deal, it took 60 years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States Politics and Government; Conservatism (US Politics)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (55%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



673 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: Jets Stadium in Manhattan Moves Closer, but Issues Remain 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
State and city officials say they are inching toward a tentative agreement with the owners of the New York Jetsto split the $1.5 billion cost of building a new football stadium over Manhattan's West Side rail yards.
 An announcement could come as soon as January, the officials said. Under the terms of what officials said would be a nonbinding agreement, the Jets would pay up to $800 million for a modern riverfront stadium, which would also serve as an Olympic stadium if the city wins its bid for the 2012 Summer Olympics. The city and the state, in turn, have generally agreed to pay $300 million to $400 million to build a retractable roof, the air-conditioning system and a platform structure over the rail yards on which the stadium would sit. 
 But lurking beneath the expected announcement are a number of contentious unresolved issues that could delay or even scuttle the stadium project. 
There is no agreement on how to pay for the extension of the No. 7 subway line from Times Square to the stadium, which is considered a crucial element of the West Side redevelopment. Nor is there consensus on the size and scope of a related project, the $1.5 billion expansion of the nearby Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, say state and city officials involved in those projects. Proponents of the Javits expansion contend that it is more important than the stadium to the city's economic life.
Finally, the city has yet to release its long-promised financial plan for the transformation of the West Side, including the stadium, an expanded convention center, new zoning for commercial and residential construction and parks and the subway extension, as the cost has climbed to $5 billion from an estimated $2.68 billion. The financial plan would presumably detail how the various projects could be turned into reality without tapping into the state's or city's current revenues, something the city has promised not to do.
"There are a series of questions that have yet to be answered about the financing, phasing and urban design," said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit research and advocacy group for the metropolitan region. "This is the city's most ambitious and important economic development plan in the last quarter century."
Nevertheless, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg dropped broad hints during his weekly radio program just before Thanksgiving that he hoped the city would soon strike a deal with the Jets, just as Business Week reported that a deal was imminent. But in an interview Friday, Daniel L. Doctoroff, deputy mayor for economic development and the founder of the city's Olympic bid committee, refused to set a date for any announcement.
"Progress is continuing to be made on virtually every front," Mr. Doctoroff said. "But this is an incredibly complicated jigsaw puzzle. We want to make sure that we have all the right pieces in all the right places."
In an effort to cut costs, city and state officials are considering scaling back the expansion of the Javits Center and reducing the number of stations on the subway extension, at least in the first phase. Mr. Doctoroff has said that the city's stadium obligation and the subway extension will be financed under a still unreleased plan using tax revenues from new development in the area over the next 30 years.
But the city has several reasons for wanting to move more rapidly on the stadium. The team owners, who have spent $10 million on lobbyists and designs for a stadium, have demanded that the state and the city issue "a letter of intent, or some kind of moral commitment" for the project before the team spends any more money, according to a team executive. The Jets' lease at Giants Stadium in New Jersey, their current home, expires at the end of 2008 and the team wants a home of its own for the 2009 season. That means construction has to begin soon.
Officials say the Bloomberg administration also wants to convey a sense of momentum for its Olympic bid with an announcement about the stadium, which would be used for Olympic opening and closing ceremonies. The International Olympic Committee will not select a 2012 site until the summer of 2005, but competing cities have to show some progress on their plans before then.
"It's important that decisions about the stadium get made fairly quickly," Mr. Yaro said.
The Jets and city and state officials point to the team's $800 million commitment as the largest single contribution toward stadium construction by any professional sports team. But the cost of the proposed West Side stadium is also double or triple that of the new stadiums built in Seattle, Philadelphia and Chicago, which cost $400 million to $500 million, according to the National Football League.
Many economists contend that stadiums are relatively poor public investments because they do little more than enrich the teams. But city and state officials say that the economic value of the Jets stadium is enhanced by its links to the Javits Center, whose site is between 34th and 39th Streets along 11th Avenue, just north of the rail yards. With a retractable roof, the Jets say the stadium could be used for 150 other events a year, including convention meetings and plenary sessions, concerts and other sporting events.
But there still is a great deal of controversy surrounding the stadium, its connection to Javits and other issues related to the West Side plans.
The city's stadium plan and rezoning proposal for commercial and residential development will face almost inevitable legal challenges by community groups and others who oppose the projects. Jerry Schoenfeld, chairman of the Shubert Organization, which owns half the Broadway theaters, has become increasingly outspoken about what he says are the potentially negative impacts of a stadium on the nearby theater district, Times Square and the surrounding neighborhood.
"This is all fantasy," said John Fisher, a member of the Westside Coalition, an amalgam of 35 community groups, referring to the size and complexity of the city's plans.
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has said it favors extending the No. 7 line, which would bring office workers and football fans to the West Side and spark development of the relatively low-slung neighborhood. But the agency says it has no money in its capital budget for the project, whose cost ranges from $1.6 billion to $2.3 billion. 
Peter S. Kalikow, chairman of the M.T.A., has also made it clear that his agency wants to be compensated for allowing the Jets to build over its rail yards, on the blocks bounded by 11th and 12th Avenues, between 30th and 34th Streets. But in what could be a stumbling block, Mr. Kalikow wants to be able to sell far more development rights from the yards than the city now envisions in its proposed rezoning of the West Side.
But the most public dispute reveals the fault line between stadium supporters and advocates for the expansion of the Javits Center over the pace and priority of their respective projects. It also illustrates the interlocking relationship between the stadium, the convention center and the subway line.
On Nov. 19, the board of the Javits operating corporation passed a resolution stating that the city's and state's current plans for the Javits center were "unacceptable," because they would result in a long delay.
For nearly a decade, the Javits Center's operating corporation and the hotel industry have sought to double the size of the convention center by expanding north to 42nd Street, which they said would generate an additional $600 million a year in convention, hotel and restaurant business. Robert E. Boyle, chairman of the Javits operating corporation, has expressed doubts about how much the stadium could really be used for conventions, and the agency's Web site does not even mention the plans to the stadium.
"The mayor constantly refers to travel and tourism as being an industry that is ripe for growth," said Jonathan M. Tisch, chief executive of Loews Hotels and chairman of New York City and Company, the city's convention and visitors bureau. An expanded convention center, he said, "would be an enormous catalyst to achieve that goal."
State officials tried to quell the uprising, telling reporters that the resolution adopted by the Javits board was unauthorized. They said that the planning and development of the Javits Center would be handled by the center's development corporation, which is headed by Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation.
"We could have several alternatives," Mr. Gargano said. "We're working with the governor and the mayor on a plan that will work."
One problem is that the M.T.A.'s Michael Quill bus depot lies in the path of the Javits expansion, on 11th Avenue between 40th and 41st Streets. The M.T.A., which bought and renovated the depot in the mid-1990's for about $120 million, does not want to give up the garage until a new one is built, probably under the stadium platform.
But it now appears that construction of the new $400 million garage cannot start until 2009. That would delay the Javits expansion until the garage is completed in 2013, which infuriates the hotel industry.
One possibility is that Javits would be expanded only to the Quill garage on 40th Street, until a second phase could start sometime in the future, a move that Javits supporters greet with dismay.
"We need to get this built," Joseph E. Spinnato, president of the Hotel Association of New York City, said of the convention center. "This is a moneymaker for the city and the state. But to be held hostage to any other part of the West Side development is not something that we're particularly happy about."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of the proposed Jets stadium over the West Side rail yards. (Photo by Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); LAND USE PLANNING (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); OLYMPICS (75%); THANKSGIVING (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (70%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%) New York Jets

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



674 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Apartment Glut Forces Owners To Cut Rents in Much of U.S. 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
Renting an apartment in much of the country these days can feel a little like waking up on your birthday.
 Waiting for the tenants in some building lobbies around Memphis every morning are free cups of Starbucks coffee. In the Atlanta suburbs, people who move into one garden-style apartment building receive $500 gift certificates to Best Buy, the electronics chain. In Cleveland, Denver and many other cities, landlords have been giving new tenants gifts worth $1,000 or more: one, two or even three months of rent-free living. 
 While rents have continued to rise in many big cities on the coasts, including New York and Los Angeles, they are falling in more than 80 percent of metropolitan areas across the country. Low interest rates in recent years have persuaded many families to move out of rented apartments and buy their first homes at the same time that developers have been putting up thousands of new rental buildings, leaving many landlords desperate to fill apartments. 
The portion of apartments sitting vacant this summer rose to 9.9 percent, the highest level since the Census Bureau began keeping statistics in 1956.
"I've been doing this for 30 years, and this is the worst rental climate I've ever seen," said Leonard Richman, president of the Sunshine Corporation, which manages almost 4,000 apartments in Memphis. "Rents have gone down to where they were about three or four years ago."
The rent decreases and the enticements, which have proliferated in the last year, are helping many younger adults, who are more likely to rent than other groups and who have suffered in the hiring slump of the last three years. Between late 2001 and this summer, the average rent per square foot fell 4.8 percent across the country, according to the National Real Estate Index, which is published by Global Real Analytics, a research company.
But the declines are also a worrisome sign that the nation's housing market has begun to suffer from some of the same problems of oversupply that have already hurt manufacturers, economists say. If mortgage rates continue increasing, as is widely expected, people who might have bought houses will instead rent. That could shift the burden of the excess supply from landlords onto homeowners, hastening the end of a decade of rapidly rising house prices.
"You're going to take the one bright light in the economy, and it will dim," said Mark Zandi, chief economist of Economy.com, a research company. "It's just a question of how much."
The biggest rent declines have occurred mostly in cities, like Memphis, where land is abundant but building regulations are not and where housing costs were already among the least expensive of the country's urban areas.
"In any city in the Southeast or Midwest, you'll drive around and see banners -- 'One month off,' 'Two months off,' '$2,000 off,' " said Mark Fogelman, president of Fogelman Management, which manages 16,000 apartments from Kansas to Florida.
Last month, Andrew H. Underwood, a 24-year-old employee of a local bank, moved into a high-ceilinged one-bedroom apartment in downtown Memphis with a view from the balcony of center field at the new minor-league ballpark across the street. He signed a 13-month lease, and though the apartment was listed at almost $1,000 a month, he will pay only 10 months of rent.
"It seems like everyone I talk to in the building got in on a special," Mr. Underwood said.
Buildings in less trendy neighborhoods here are resorting to frills as well as discounts. In some of Fogelman Management's buildings, employees now walk the dogs of residents who are on vacation, pick up and drop off dry cleaning, maintain free fax and Internet service and set out newspapers and Starbucks coffee each morning. The company also takes $25 to $50 off the monthly rent of residents who carry baskets of muffins, Fogelman coffee mugs and advertising fliers to their workplaces.
 "The options are pretty much endless here," said Jenny Dail, 28, who next month will move into a brick-and-wood duplex with her husband and 10-month-old daughter. At $725 a month, the duplex is larger and less expensive than their current apartment in Memphis, and they did not even have to sign a lease, leaving them free to buy a house at any point if they choose.
 In many cities on the coasts, where new construction is more difficult and where an influx of highly educated people over the last two decades has driven up home prices, rents have held up better. The average rent in both Los Angeles and New York has risen about 4 percent since last year, according to Torto Wheaton Research. Rents in Boston and Washington have declined only slightly.
 That has widened the growing gap between the cost of living in the Northeast or parts of California and the cost of living almost anywhere else. Three years ago, for example, a typical 800-square-foot one-bedroom apartment in Los Angeles cost the same as a 1,480-square-foot two-bedroom in Charlotte, N.C.; today, the Los Angeles apartment costs almost as much as 1,900 square feet in Charlotte, according to Economy.com.
 The one exception is the San Francisco Bay Area, where rents have fallen more than 20 percent over the last three years, more than anywhere else. Although homes remain expensive there, the collapse of the technology sector since 2000 has greatly reduced the number of Northern Californians in their 20's and 30's who are looking to rent expensive apartments, economists say.
 Landlords around the country blame three main forces for the drop in rents. The long economic slowdown has left many people out of work or with less income, forcing some to move in with relatives or find roommates.
 The supply of apartments has also spiked, as the coming bulge in college graduates -- the children of baby boomers -- has persuaded many developers that new buildings will soon find tenants. Meanwhile, cities across the country have spruced up their downtowns and converted abandoned office buildings, like Memphis's old cotton warehouses, into loft-style apartments.
 But the biggest drag on rents, developers say, is the sharp increase in the number of Americans who own their homes. Low interest rates have played a big role in that increase, but so has the willingness of many banks and the giant mortgage lenders, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to accept little or no down payment from families who once would have been renters.
 "Our rents have really had to come down to meet the competition," said Bruce W. Duncan, chief executive of Equity Residential, a real estate investment trust that owns buildings across the country.
 Bowden Homes, a Memphis home-building company, recently mailed a flier to some renters that included a cartoon of a monster wearing a hat with "Landlord" printed on it. "Stop Feeding the Rent Monster!" the flier read. "For Only $726 a Month You Can Own Your Own Home!"
 On the east side of Memphis, former cornfields are now filled with subdivisions where homes cost less than $150,000. Many of them advertise monthly mortgage payments of about $750, and some require no down payment. Housing analysts say that offers like these have caused a spike in home foreclosures, because some new owners have lacked the financial cushion to withstand a job loss, illness or divorce and still make their mortgage payments.
 Despite the declines in rent, the prices of apartment buildings have actually increased in the last few years, as many investors have decided that real estate investments are a better bet than the stock market. "That's the only reason a lot of folks are surviving," Mr. Richman said of building owners.
 Rents in some cities could stop their decline soon, especially if the economy continues to gain strength, apartment owners and economists say. But few analysts say they expect rents to start rising, or the free coffee to stop flowing, anytime soon.
 "We don't see recovery until 2005," said Gleb Nechayev, an economist at Torto Wheaton, which is owned by C.B. Richard Ellis, the big real estate company. "There is just too much construction. There are too many units coming onto the market."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 6, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day last Saturday showing the decline in rents for several metropolitan areas referred imprecisely to figures per square foot. They were annual, not monthly.

GRAPHIC: Photos: With apartment vacancies rising in places like Memphis, landlords have had to lower rents and even offer a month or more rent-free. (Photo by Rollin Riggs for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Andrew H. Underwood took advantage of a soft rental market in Memphis, agreeing to pay 10 months of rent for a 13-month lease. "It seems like everyone I talk to in the building got in on a special," he said. (Photo by Rollin Riggs for The New York Times)(pg. C14) Chart: "Relative Bargains"Rental rates in many of the largest metropolitan areas have come down sharply over the last year. San FranciscoApartment building rents per square foot, 2nd quarter 2003: $22.50Change from year earlier: -11.8% San Jose, Calif.Apartment building rents per square foot, 2nd quarter 2003: 19.20Change from year earlier: -9.9 Salt Lake CityApartment building rents per square foot, 2nd quarter 2003: 9.10Change from year earlier: -7.1 DenverApartment building rents per square foot, 2nd quarter 2003: 11.10Change from year earlier: -6.7 DallasApartment building rents per square foot, 2nd quarter 2003: 9.80Change from year earlier: -6.7 Kansas City, Mo.Apartment building rents per square foot, 2nd quarter 2003: 9.00Change from year earlier: -6.3 Oakland, Calif.Apartment building rents per square foot, 2nd quarter 2003: 18.10Change from year earlier: -6.2 OrlandoApartment building rents per square foot, 2nd quarter 2003: 9.10Change from year earlier: -6.2 Portland, Ore.Apartment building rents per square foot, 2nd quarter 2003: 9.50Change from year earlier: -5.9 MemphisApartment building rents per square foot, 2nd quarter 2003: 8.10Change from year earlier: -5.8 (Sources by National Real Estate Index; Economy.com)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CITIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (85%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (77%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); REAL ESTATE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); CENSUS (54%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Housing; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (76%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (91%); OREGON, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



675 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Crowds May Not Help Travel Industry 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Heading into the busiest travel day of the year -- the Sunday of the Thanksgiving weekend -- there was evidence that the long-troubled travel industry was finally enjoying a boomlet in demand.
 Outside Pittsburgh, for example, electronic signs on Interstate 80 warned motorists for miles ahead of time to expect clogged highways on the way to the airport. In Manhattan, many Hertz locations were sold out of cars for the Thanksgiving weekend by Tuesday. 
 But the commotion camouflages the fact that the industry is far from healthy. Airlines are likely to collect less money per passenger this year for domestic flights than at any time since commercial air traffic began in the 1920's -- even though the industry has been cutting capacity and packing planes full of people. 
 While a healthy holiday travel season is aiding morale, the major airlines still have not figured out how to fill planes without slashing prices, industry experts say. "The holidays help a little, but not much," said John McCorkle, a flight attendant for US Airways who writes an industry newsletter. "You're only looking at a few days of full flights."
 Kevin Mitchell, president of the Business Travel Coalition, which represents corporate travel departments and business travelers, said the Thanksgiving bounce would be welcome news if the airline industry were not reeling from a two-year slump. But business travelers, who traditionally pay higher fares, are reluctant to fly as often as they did just a few years ago, in part because planes have become more crowded as airlines sharply reduce the number of flights to save money.
 "If this were a typical couple-of-year stretch that we were in, I'd say all this sounds great," he said. "But in this context, you still have downward pressure on demand because of the perceived ugliness of travel."
 The news for airlines is not entirely bad. According to the Air Transport Association, the airlines' trade group, domestic revenue per mile -- expressed as one paying passenger traveling one mile -- has risen in each of the last four months.
 But the average revenue this year through October was only 11.92 cents a mile on flights within the United States, down 1.4 cents from the 10-month period in 2002. If the industry cannot pick up the revenue pace through the end of the year, the airlines will end up at their lowest level of revenue per mile since 1987 -- and that is before adjusting fares for inflation. After adjusting, average revenue per passenger mile is on a pace to decline for the eighth consecutive year.
 In 2000, the industry's record travel year, revenue per mile was 14.05 cents.
 Despite this weekend's holiday rush, which is set to be repeated in a few weeks, Mr. McCorkle doubts that revenue will improve much in November and December. "Keep in mind that the vast majority of folks are traveling on advance-purchase tickets, and therefore they are not buying the higher walk-up fares" that would significantly increase revenue, he said.
 The drop in revenue per mile comes despite the airlines' well-publicized efforts to cut capacity by retiring old planes and eliminating routes. That has resulted in heavily packed planes and more rides in middle seats than many passengers would prefer.
 But that situation may be about to reverse itself. In recent months, a wave of airlines, including JetBlue, Atlantic Coast Airlines and others, have announced plans to purchase more planes, which could bring back the capacity that was wiped out over the last year.
 Before that happens, the industry is looking past the holiday season with hope for a decent start to 2004. Mr. Mitchell said airlines were bound to have a better first quarter than in 2003, when fears about a war in Iraq, a weak economy and the first warning signs of SARS combined to dampen bookings. 
 Recent good economic news, including an estimate that the economy grew at an annual rate of 8.2 percent in the third quarter, should be a boost to business travel, especially in segments of the economy that have been suffering, he said.
 "Technology companies are going to get their people back on the road fast, if they believe people are willing to listen," Mr. Mitchell said. "The first and second quarters could be pretty darn nice, if this recovery has the kind of legs that people believe it does."
 Even so, that does not mean revenues will rise accordingly. This past year, businesses increasingly have shifted to low-fare carriers, attracted by cheaper tickets and expanded schedules.
 That pressure on prices could well increase in 2004, with the debuts of new low-fare carriers like Ted, a unit of United Airlines, and Independence Air, formed by Atlantic Coast Airlines, and with the expansion of service by established airlines. Southwest, for example, plans to begin service to Philadelphia.
 An economic recovery, combined with the public's weariness with staying close to home, may help compensate. John Showers, owner of the Inn at New Berlin, a bed-and-breakfast in New Berlin, Pa., said he was sold out by Monday for Thanksgiving weekend, and was enjoying his best fall since the terrorist attacks of 2001. Though guests are not spending as much as they once did in the inn's gift shop, crowded with glittery ornaments and handmade ceramic mugs, they seem happy to stay in the inn's 10 rooms and dine in its restaurant.
 "People want to indulge themselves," said Mr. Showers, who credits a new Web site design for helping to attract customers from as far away as Sweden to his Victorian-era inn, three hours west of Manhattan.
 He added, "They're tired of war, they're tired of the economy, and they want to forget it and have fun."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Passengers waited in long lines Wednesday at the United Airlines terminal at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. Planes are more crowded, but that is partly a result of a reduction in flights, and the more crowded planes could be deterring some business passengers. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (87%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%) Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Industry Profiles; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Jetblue Airways; Atlantic Coast Airlines

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



676 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Strike Threatened at Chilean Copper Mine 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Unions at a Chilean mine owned by Codelco, the world's biggest copper producer, plan to strike next week because the company has failed to meet their demands for pay increases.
 About 900 workers at Andina, in the Andes Mountains in central Chile, voted this week to strike after the company rejected unions' demands for a 5 percent salary increase, said Hector Zelaya, a director of the mine's biggest union. 
The mine is Codelco's third-biggest division and a strike would halt output, he said. 
 "We're willing to negotiate to reach an agreement," Mr. Zelaya said in a telephone interview. "But if that doesn't happen, we'll strike."
 Unions have said they will strike at midnight on Thursday if no agreement is reached. Codelco asked that the strike, which had been scheduled for Monday, be delayed, said Antonio Varas, a Codelco spokesman at Andina. The company has increased workers' wages to compensate for inflation, but has not offered them more than that this year.
 Andina accounts for 16 percent of Codelco's output, and a strike would reduce supplies of copper.
 A wage increase would raise costs at Codelco, which is owned by the Chilean government, eroding part of the profit from a 30 percent increase in copper prices this year in New York. The company will also negotiate wage contracts next month with unions at Chuquicamata, one of the world's largest copper mines, Mr. Zelaya said.
 Almost 82 percent of employees at Andina are represented by the two unions negotiating the wage increases, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); COPPER MINING (91%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COPPER MARKETS (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%) Copper, Brass and Bronze; Labor; Strikes; Wages and Salaries; Production

COMPANY: EMBOTELLADORA ANDINA SA (92%)

ORGANIZATION: CODELCO ; Corporacion Nacional Del Cobre De Chile (Codelco)

TICKER: ANDINA-A (SGO) (92%); AKO.B (NYSE) (92%); AKO.A (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHILE (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) Chile; Andina (Chile)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



677 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: They're Off and Shopping, but Seeking Sales 

BYLINE:  By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
Holiday shoppers, intent on bargains, descended on America's malls yesterday, but spent only slightly more than they did last year, according to reports from retailers and analysts. 
 The weather did not help, with seeping skies or drenching rains -- and an occasional dusting of snow -- throughout the Northeast and Midwest. Still, shoppers, expecting early-bird specials, lined up at discounters like Target and Wal-Mart, waiting for $9.99 CD players and $44.99 DVD players. But by 11 a.m., most of the specials had ended -- and cars were pulling out of the lots. 
 After a surge in economic growth in the third quarter, some retailers clearly were hoping for a record-breaking opening day for this year's gift-giving season. At American Girl Place in Chicago, workers had strung ropes outside, as if expecting huge crowds. But shortly after noon, there was no line, and the number of shoppers swinging shopping bags along nearby Michigan Avenue seemed much like that of a normal Saturday to merchants interviewed there. 
 Over all, the turnout on Black Friday (the industry term for the day after Thanksgiving, when results for the year, hopefully, cross from red into black) was deemed "good, but not spectacular," by Tracy Mullin, president of the National Retail Federation, a trade group based in Washington. 
 "It's a return to normalcy," she said yesterday. "We usually expect a 4 to 6 percent increase, and we are projecting 5.7 percent for the holidays. After what we've seen today, there's no reason to change our estimate -- in fact, even with the messy weather, there were a lot of people carrying shopping bags." Last year, shoppers spent only 2.1 percent more than they did in 2001.
 Sales for the entire holiday season were predicted to be stronger than last year's -- the average consumer will spend $671 this year, compared with $648 last year, according to federation estimates -- but Americans are still spending conservatively, Ms. Mullin said. Other experts blamed everything from unseasonably warm November weather, which hurt sales of sweaters and winter jackets, to the uncertainty of United States involvement in Iraq, to, of course, yesterday's rainstorms.
 Ms. Mullin said yesterday afternoon that she would stick by her group's estimate on Wednesday of a 5 percent increase in mall traffic from last year, "and we all know what a disaster last year was." More definitive numbers on sales, in stores and online, will not be available until later in the weekend. 
 Some shoppers, like Omar Forbes, 26, who lives in the Bronx and works for a trucking company, were ecstatic over the early specials. Maneuvering a shopping cart full of $44.99 DVD players into the checkout line at Best Buy, Mr. Forbes said he shopped yesterday because he was looking for bargains: "If a name brand is on sale, I hop on it."
 Yet even in the sale-packed morning hours, not everyone was thrilled.
 At a Best Buy on West 23rd Street at 8 a.m., Rose Castro could not be persuaded to buy a Sony stereo on sale for $199. "This is not a sale," Ms. Castro announced to her son, Marcus, 18, with an aside to a reporter: "He's going home to bed."
 Many shoppers at department stores found bargain offerings to be far less spectacular than in the past, even at stores like Macy's, which traditionally run big sales the day after Thanksgiving. In Boston, Richard Wine, 71, responded to full-page advertisements from Filene's and Macy's, but said he found "there aren't as many things on sale this year; business must be better." At the Mall at Tuttle Crossing in Dublin, Ohio, stores did not seem to be discounting as much, according to a spokesman for Taubman Centers Inc., which owns the mall.
 At Marshall Field's in Chicago, 17-year-old Jodi Cunningham, asked what she was looking for, had a one-word answer: "Deals!" Jodi, who was shopping with her mother, Terri Cunningham, said, "We always shop the day after Thanksgiving." 
 Mrs. Cunningham said she would not spend more money than last year. "So far," she said, "the deals aren't good enough." 
 At Bloomingdale's, Michael Gould, the chain's chief executive, said yesterday's advertised discounts were "mainly for home furnishings." For this holiday season, Mr. Gould has reduced the number of promotional sales significantly this month and next, looking for less cluttered, more upscale surroundings. Bloomingdale's traditional sale the Monday and Tuesday before Thanksgiving was eliminated this season, he said.
 As for yesterday, "We didn't open our doors early, and we didn't have any early-bird specials," he said. 
 At least one expert was intrigued by the department stores' restraint.
 "I was surprised they were not more aggressive," said C. Britt Beemer, president of America's Research Group, a polling firm. Even yesterday morning, shortly after the department stores opened, "there were only two or three people at the cash register," said Mr. Beemer, who said he had pollsters talking to shoppers at a dozen malls nationwide. 
 Another factor may be the lack of what Ms. Mullin called "a really cool toy," a problem that analysts said spread to other merchandise, too. 
 "There is no must-have item in any category," Mr. Beemer said. "And the lack of a hot toy not only negatively impacts toy sales by 20 percent, it impacts the rest of the marketplace because parents can stop shopping earlier, and won't buy as much, period."
 Retailers accustomed to an enormous spike in sales on Black Friday may be disappointed when the weekend sales statistics are released. While the economy has been rocky for the last couple of years, Americans have continued to spend, particularly in the third quarter of this year. Food and retail sales rose 6.4 percent in August through October, compared with the period in 2002.
 Thus, hopes for the unleashing of pent-up consumer demand may turn out to have been unrealistic. Predictions of a glorious Christmas 2003, which were rampant after an excellent September, dwindled when much less robust October figures were released earlier this month.
 Several analysts pointed out yesterday that even if a stronger demand should develop before Christmas, some stores may not be able to accommodate it: the stores have been diligently working on reducing their inventories. The advantage is clear: In a bad holiday season, they won't have to put racks of clothes on sale. But if this Christmas suddenly takes off, they may not have enough in stock.
 A few experts did predict an even better holiday season than the trade group expects. Carl Steidtmann, the chief economist with Deloitte, the consulting firm, projected as much as a 7 percent increase in retail sales throughout the country this holiday.
 Mr. Steidtmann pointed to what he sees as the beginnings of job growth -- the yardstick, he said, that "most people translate to mean how the economy is going: if they feel secure in their jobs." Last month, the Labor Department reported 270,000 more jobs in October than in September. And consumer confidence seems to be rising: on Tuesday, the Conference Board, a business research organization, said its index of consumer confidence jumped 10 percent in November.
 And in New York at least, there are always those year-end bonuses. The day before Thanksgiving, the New York Federal Reserve estimated that securities industry bonuses would be 20 percent higher than last year's.
 Yesterday, some merchants were already playing down the importance of Black Friday.
 "It's not even one of my top 10 business days," said Mr. Gould of Bloomingdale's.
 For those who rely on the generosity of the public, it was not a big day either.
 Yesterday morning, Kathy Partridge, a volunteer for the Toys for Tots charity in the Georgia Square Mall in Athens, compared this year's haul of donated toys unfavorably with last year's.
 "By 10 a.m. last year, we had 12 of these filled up," she said, pointing to a 4-foot-high cardbox box, where shoppers deposited new toys for needy children. This year, the box held only 15 toys at 10 a.m.
 The toys included two Care Bears, stuffed animals that were being given away at the local KB Toys store with purchases of $100 or more. The bears smiled up from the depths of a box that was not even a third full.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Before dawn yesterday, shoppers seeking bargains were lining up outside the Best Buy electronics store in Davenport, Iowa. But the crowds thinned early in many areas yesterday, and some shoppers said the early-season specials weren't good enough. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times); (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C1); Judi Biagi, who shopped with relatives, watched their purchases yesterday at Marshall Field's in Chicago. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CHRISTMAS (79%); THANKSGIVING (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); WEATHER (77%); CD & DVD DRIVES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TRUCKING (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Christmas; Sales; Consumer Behavior

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (82%) National Retail Federation

PERSON: Tracie Rozhon

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); DAVENPORT, IA, USA (73%) MIDWEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



678 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Move Over Starbucks, Juan Valdez Is Coming

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY

 BODY:
How about a nice large cup of coffee, light on the guilt?
 The Colombian Coffee Federation, which represents more than 500,000 Colombian coffee growers, is planning to open its first coffee shops -- all bearing the name Juan Valdez, after the federation's signature character -- in the United States by early 2004. Gabriel Silva, the president of the federation, which is based in Bogota, says the coffee growers have been "too passive" in claiming a larger piece of the $8.4 billion specialty coffee industry. 
 "In a cup of coffee that you get at a coffee shop, between 1 and 2 cents goes back to the farmer," Mr. Silva said, referring to Colombian growers. "We need to build our own solutions and take the destiny in our hands and really fight for our share of the industry." 
 Coffee growers are facing a difficult market. Per-capita consumption has been in decline since 1963 with the only growth area the specialty coffee shops, led by Starbucks, according to the International Coffee Organization in London. The price of coffee beans has also declined significantly from a high of about $1.20 a pound five years ago because of a global oversupply of coffee beans from countries like Vietnam and Brazil. In Colombia today, the average coffee grower gets only about 68 cents for a pound of coffee, Mr. Silva said. 
 Industry trade groups have tried to stem coffee farmers' losses by encouraging coffee producers to destroy oversupply and raise prices. They have also encouraged food companies to buy so-called fair trade coffee, which aims to guarantee what its advocates say is a living wage to poor coffee farmers in developing countries. 
 But even with Starbucks buying fair-trade coffee at an average of $1.20 a pound, Colombian coffee growers make only about a penny from each cup of coffee sold, Mr. Silva said. The average Starbucks' latte costs $2.25 to $3 a cup; a mocha costs $2.45 to $3.25. 
 By selling its own coffee at its own coffee shops, the federation, which represents both small and large coffee growers, plans to return 4 to 5 cents for each cup of coffee sold. Each of the federation's 560,000 farmers will also have an ownership stake in the shops, Mr. Silva said. The profits from the retail operation will go back to the federation, which said it would put marketing dollars behind the Juan Valdez brand and work to improve Colombia's coffee-growing regions by building roads, schools, health centers and housing. 
 "It's certainly interesting," John Glass, a restaurant analyst at CIBC World Markets, said of the coffee growers' plan. "I'm sure they can capture, to some degree, some more integrated profit if they vertically integrate it. The example would be Exxon Mobil. They own gas stations. They take it out of the ground, and they sell it."
 The first Juan Valdez coffee shop is scheduled to open in New York, where the federation owns property on 57th Street and Lexington Avenue. The federation also plans to open three more flagship stores in Boston, Washington and Seattle. 
 The Juan Valdez trademark, which was created by DDB Worldwide Marketing in 1960's, is probably most familiar from a series of television commercials featuring the character standing in American supermarket aisles. The character was suspended in 2001, after coffee bean prices dropped significantly and the federation could no longer bankroll the ad budget for Juan Valdez. 
 But last summer, Juan Valdez made a comeback. The federation paid $1.5 million to buy him a cameo appearance in the Jim Carrey movie "Bruce Almighty." The federation plans to spend about $20 million on its coffee shops, but did not say how much of that would go for advertising and marketing. It will spend another $9 million this year and next to promote its marketing program for 100 percent Colombian coffee. The Sawyer Miller unit of the IPG Group is spearheading the federation's marketing campaign. Future Brands, another IPG unit, will work with the company on branding.
 The stores will largely be modeled after five coffee shops that the federation operates in Colombia. There, they are testing product mix, pricing and the intricacies of running a retail operation. The stores, which are relatively spartan, serve nine different blends of coffee and are decorated in neutral browns and beiges, accented with wooden chairs that do not encourage patrons to linger. Although prices of the Colombian coffee have yet to be set for stores in the United States, Mr. Silva said he expected them to be lower than Starbucks'. 
 "Starbucks sells an experience," Mr. Silva said. "It's almost like a social place where you go there and meet your friends and read the paper and have some milk with coffee. They are not maximizing the potential of the pure coffee experience. Our stores are going to be much more down to earth -- less opportunities for social interaction. It's not going to be a gathering place; it's going to be a place to get superior coffee, the best coffee in the world."
 The federation's plan promises to be a delicate balancing act, as the group will be directly competing with its primary consumers, packaged-goods companies that market 100 percent Colombian coffee as an ingredient in brands like Folgers and coffee shops, especially Starbucks, which controls 38 percent of the domestic specialty coffee shop market.
 Officials at Starbucks, which has recorded 12 consecutive years of same-store sales growth despite the slumping economy, said they supported the Colombian coffee growers' efforts and would continue to buy coffee beans from them. Starbucks officials said the company was a "significant buyer" of Colombian coffee, but they declined to say how much coffee they purchased from Colombia, which is the second-largest coffee-producing nation in the world, after Brazil. 
 "We're not worried," said Dub Hay, Starbucks' senior vice president for coffee. "We're well aware of what they're going to do; we think there's room for everyone."
 A representative of Dunkin' Donuts, which says it sells more cups of coffee a day than any other retailer, expressed support for the growers' efforts, along with a little confusion about the identity of the coffee shops' namesake. "Is that the guy with the horse?" asked Jon Luther, the chief executive of the restaurant division of Allied Domecq, which owns Dunkin' Donuts. 
 The federation has enlisted McKinsey & Company, a management consulting firm, to help develop its retail plan for its United States stores. McKinsey has been advising the federation on the creation of its coffee shop business model and the rollout of the stores.
 But the federation's learning curve will be steep as the group will have to figure out how to transfer its skills as coffee growers to retail sales, analysts said.
 "There's so much more to it," said Mitchell J. Speiser, a restaurant and food service analyst at Lehman Brothers, about the federation's plans. "It's site location; it's branding. It's the right management team. It's hiring the right people. Just on paper, having real Colombian coffee and creating a retail shop around it, they do win the authenticity factor, but it takes a lot more than that to create a successful brand and a successful retail chain."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bags of Juan Valdez coffee. The Colombian Coffee Federation, which represents more than 500,000 Colombian coffee growers, is planning to open its first coffee shops -- all bearing the name Juan Valdez, after the federation's signature character -- in the United States next year. (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. C3) Chart: "$3.75 Retail, Pennies for Farmers"Coffee growers earn almost nothing from the $3.75 people pay on average for a double cappuccino at the specialty coffee shops that now dot American cities. Where the $3.75 $0goes.035 -- Coffee $0growers.175 -- Coffee millers, exporters, importers and $0roasters.40 -- $0Milk.07 -- Cost of the $1cup.35 -- Labor costs at the coffee $1shop.29 Shop rent, marketing and general $0administration.18 -- Initial $0investment.25 -- Shop owners' profit (Source by Specialty Coffee Association of America)(pg. C1) Chart: "More Than Starbucks"Though Starbucks is far and away the largest of the retail coffee shop chains, it does have competition in the fast-growing industry. COFFEE SHOP CHAINS: StarbucksNO. OF STORES: 3,5402001 SALES, IN MILLIONS: $2,218 COFFEE SHOP CHAINS: Diedrich'sNO. OF STORES: 2782001 SALES, IN MILLIONS: 112 COFFEE SHOP CHAINS: Coffee BeaneryNO. OF STORES: 1982001 SALES, IN MILLIONS: 56 COFFEE SHOP CHAINS: Caribou CoffeeNO. OF STORES: 1702001 SALES, IN MILLIONS: 80 COFFEE SHOP CHAINS: Barnies CoffeeNO. OF STORES: 1252001 SALES, IN MILLIONS: 60 COFFEE SHOP CHAINS: Seattle CoffeeNO. OF STORES: 1212001 SALES, IN MILLIONS: 49 COFFEE SHOP CHAINS: Tully'sNO. OF STORES: 1142001 SALES, IN MILLIONS: 36 COFFEE SHOP CHAINS: OtherNO. OF STORES: 8,8032001 SALES, IN MILLIONS: 4,062 Graph tracks coffee shop chain sales from 1997 through 2001.(Source by Mintel)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (97%); COFFEE FARMING (93%); COFFEE & TEA (91%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); CONSUMPTION (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%); GAS STATIONS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (50%) Restaurants; Coffee; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Restaurants

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SPECIALTY COFFEE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (55%) STARBUCKS CORP (SBUX); COLOMBIAN COFFEE FEDERATION ; Colombian National Coffee Federation; Starbucks Corp

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%); XOM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: Sherri Day

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%) Colombia

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



679 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing The Americas: Canada: Economy Grows 1.1% 

BYLINE:  By Bernard Simon (NYT)

 BODY:
 The nation's gross domestic product grew by an annualized 1.1 percent, adjusted for inflation, in the third quarter after shrinking by 0.7 percent in the previous three months, the national statistics agency reported. 
The latest number was about half of what analysts had expected, and reflected a sharp drop in inventories, weak exports to the United States and shrinking factory output. Exports fell for the fourth consecutive quarter, partly because of the strong Canadian dollar. In spite of the weak growth report, analysts expect the Bank of Canada to leave its base interest rate unchanged at 2.75 percent when it reviews monetary policy on Dec. 2. Bernard Simon (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); TRENDS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); STATISTICS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); INVENTORIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (85%); MONETARY POLICY (85%); CENTRAL BANKS (85%); EXPORT TRADE (84%); INTEREST RATES (51%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Gross Domestic Product

PERSON: Bernard Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



680 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Politics Rescue Euro From Stability Agreement 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
When the European Union suspended the fiscal rules that underpin the euro this week, some political leaders here warned that it would undermine the stability of the currency.
 They were right: it kept going up. 
 On Friday, the euro reached a high of $1.20 against the dollar. It has risen 2 percent since the decision on Tuesday to give Germany and France more time to cut their deficits, and nearly 40 percent since February 2002, when Germany's tide of red ink first emerged as a problem. 
 The gap between Europe's politicians, particularly those in small countries, and the currency markets can be explained partly by the peculiar nature of the agreement that governs the monetary union.
 Although it is known as the stability and growth pact, critics said the agreement had become the enemy of economic growth in Europe over the last two years, when Germany and France found themselves with stagnating economies, rising unemployment and restive populations.
 The pact, which limits the deficits of its 12 members to 3 percent of their gross domestic product, would have forced Germany and France to undertake draconian budget cuts at the very moment that economists say they need expansionary fiscal policies to revive anemic demand.
 The decision by Germany and France to resist such cuts was praised by investors, even as it drew criticism from the European Commission, the European Central Bank, and officials in the Netherlands, Austria, Finland and Spain, which opposed letting the two malefactors off the hook.
 "Some people are trying to make the case that this will open the door to fiscal profligacy," said David Mackie, the chief European economist at J.P. Morgan Chase in London. "That's simply not the case. Germany and France were acting out of desperation, not malice."
 Paul de Grauwe, an economics professor at the University of Leuven in Belgium, said: "The fact that the stability pact disintegrated, from an economic point of view, is good news. It was a bad idea."
 To be sure, the galloping euro is being driven by other factors, not least the trade and budget deficits in the United States. The increase on Friday was also fueled by the remarks of a German official, who said that the government was not concerned by the pace of the currency's rise.
 If anything, the resilience of the euro shows that the debate over Europe's fiscal rules is less about economics than politics. The failure of Brussels to impose even a modicum of discipline on Germany and France drove home the split between the euro zone's small countries, which must abide by the rules, and its two giants, which can behave with near impunity.
 "This is the way Europe works," Mr. Mackie said. "Germany and France, because of their size and closeness, drive the agenda."
 That became evident as Europe's foreign ministers gathered on Friday near Naples to hash out differences over the European Union's proposed constitution. A meeting called to address issues like voting rights, the size of the European Commission -- its executive body -- and whether to mention the word God in the charter became instead a forum to air grievances about the conduct of Germany and France.
 "This is not business as usual," said the Dutch deputy foreign minister, Atzo Nicolai, after demanding that the ministers debate the decision to allow Berlin and Paris to keep breaking the rules.
 Experts on the European Union said the lingering ill will would aggravate the David-and-Goliath battle over voting rights. Under the draft constitution, those rights, which had been weighted to favored midsize countries like Spain and Poland, would be changed to reflect population size, reinforcing the position of France, Italy, Germany and Britain.
 "Before this, Spain didn't have a moral case to keep the old system," said Daniel Gros, director of the Center for European Policy Studies in Brussels. "They now have a moral case, supported by smaller countries."
 The unraveling of the fiscal rules, he said, would also focus more suspicion on the informal alliance of France and Germany, which has made many crucial decisions, including the timetable for eliminating agricultural subsidies, that have implications for the rest of the European Union.
 "Until now, there was a moral case for the Franco-German axis," Mr. Gros said. "They used to be mortal enemies. If they can make up, it's good for all of Europe. Now, they've lost that completely."
 Some politicians fault Germany and France for not owning up much earlier to their probable violation of the stability pact. Given the questions that were raised about the pact last fall -- the European Commission's president, Romano Prodi, famously labeled it stupid -- Berlin and Paris could have led a reappraisal of the rules, rather than simply wait to flout them.
 "Their political handling of it was very bad," said Daniel Cohn-Bendit, who represents France in the European Parliament. "If they had tried to do something a year ago, it would have been much easier."
 Even now, economists are busy thinking of ways to rewrite the pact. Professor de Grauwe has proposed far more elastic rules that would eliminate numerical targets on deficits and would allow countries to set what they judge to be a proper level of national debt, within certain limits.
 The deficit cap of 3 percent, however, is enshrined in the Maastricht treaty of 1991. Changing it would be a huge undertaking, which almost no one wants. It is likely, experts said, that this week's drama will be remembered less as a watershed than as one more jolt on the road to European unity.
 "Europe only goes forward," Mr. Cohn-Bendit said. "You have a drama, and it goes forward. You have another drama, and it goes forward again."

GRAPHIC: Graph "CURRENCIES" tracks the euro to the dollar, since June 2002. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); EURO (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); TRENDS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Budgets and Budgeting; Currency; Gross Domestic Product; Finances

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%) European Union

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (94%); BELGIUM (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); SPAIN (79%); FINLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Europe; Germany; France; Europe

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



681 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: No Escaping The Red Ink As Bush Pens '04 Agenda 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
President Bush is heading into 2004 facing a growing budget deficit, frustration among some Republicans about what they see as a lack of fiscal discipline and a challenge in putting together an election-year agenda that will not plunge the government all the deeper into debt, lawmakers, analysts and administration officials say.
 The legislative victories chalked up by the White House and the Republican-controlled Congress this year, including a new round of tax cuts and the final approval this week of a Medicare prescription drug benefit, came with a price tag that further weighed down a budget already saddled with the costs of fighting terrorism and stabilizing Iraq. 
 The deficit, projected a few months ago to be around $475 billion for the fiscal year that started on Oct. 1, now seems likely to hit $500 billion, up from $374 billion last year. The White House's goal of cutting it at least in half within a few years will be hard to achieve despite the economic rebound and the growth in tax revenue it is expected to generate, budget analysts in the government and on Wall Street say.
Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former Bush administration official who is now director of the Congressional Budget Office, said bringing the deficit down to some $250 billion in the next five years "is going to be very hard to do" even if the economic recovery remains strong and unemployment falls sharply. 
"The thing I would caution is that economic growth is not going to be enough" to solve the fiscal problem, Mr. Holtz-Eakin said in an interview.
It is not clear whether the deficit will be enough of an issue next year to hurt Mr. Bush's chances of re-election. But at a minimum it is limiting the White House's options as the administration looks at new policy proposals, from further tax cuts to new spending.
To avoid criticism that it is making the deficit even worse, the administration is focusing attention primarily on initiatives that would have little or no budgetary cost in the next few years, officials said. These include new tax-free savings accounts, which could be set up in a way that would actually generate additional tax revenue for several years before creating substantial revenue losses down the road. They also include very long-term proposals like an overhaul of Social Security.
With the economy growing again at a robust pace and starting to generate new jobs, Democrats, despite their own advocacy of increased spending on many programs, see the deficit as the most politically compelling evidence of economic mismanagement by Mr. Bush.
Saying the economic rebound had been "built on a foundation of reckless and irresponsible tax cuts and record-setting levels of debt," one Democratic presidential candidate, Howard Dean, issued a statement this week asserting that the White House's fiscal policy would ultimately come back to haunt the country.
"This president's approach," Dr. Dean said, "is the equivalent of mortgaging your house to get spending money for the weekend."
At the same time, Mr. Bush is coming under intensifying pressure from conservatives in the Republican ranks who want him to do more to choke off what they see as an orgy of spending since he took office.
Although Mr. Bush has had some success at slowing growth in spending on programs that receive annual appropriations, overall government spending -- including money for the war in Iraq, farm subsidies, medical research and other undertakings -- has grown at rates that have given some Republicans heartburn.
"I would be in favor of the administration being much tougher, taking the toughest possible stance on fiscal discipline," said the chairman of the House Budget Committee, Representative Jim Nussle of Iowa.
Brian M. Riedl, a budget analyst at the conservative Heritage Foundation, said government spending per household in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 was $20,301 -- the highest level since World War II, he said, even after adjustment for inflation. (His analysis showed that the figure peaked in 1944 at $26,445, as measured in current dollars.)
Though the administration has said the spending increases are largely a result of a need to strengthen the military and protect against terrorism at home, most of the new spending since 2001, 55 percent, has gone to programs with no link to national security, Mr. Riedl said.
"The Republican Party," he said, "has grown addicted to federal spending as a means to re-election."
Administration officials said they still expected to be able to reduce the deficit through a combination of spending restraint and increased revenue flowing from a healthier economy. "There's no doubt that both features will be important to getting the deficit down," said N. Gregory Mankiw, the chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers.
But White House officials said the fiscal pressure would restrict them somewhat over the next month as they make final a budget proposal for next year, an exercise that will yield what amounts to Mr. Bush's election-year agenda.
"To some extent," Mr. Mankiw said, "the goal of spending restraint puts a constraint on policy proposals."
Despite the shadow of the deficit, Mr. Bush is likely to set out plans for further tax cuts and other new programs, even if he has to rely on budget sleight of hand. One of the biggest ideas under consideration is a big expansion of tax-free savings and investment accounts. 
Such a plan could reduce federal revenue by billions or even tens of billions of dollars a year in the long run. But it might actually bring in additional revenue for a few years, as taxpayers sold stocks and other financial assets, incurring capital gains in the process, to raise cash to deposit in the accounts.
Mr. Bush is also maintaining pressure on Congress to extend or make permanent the many elements of his previous tax cuts that will otherwise expire at various points over the next decade. Compliance by Congress, the Congressional Budget Office estimates, would reduce revenue by nearly $1.4 trillion in the next 10 years.
In addition, Congress has deficit-increasing ideas of its own that the White House has supported or at least not opposed. The energy bill that stalled in the Senate before lawmakers recessed provides tax cuts totaling $24 billion over the next decade. And House Republicans, pushing for an overhaul of taxes on international corporations, want legislation that would grant them $60 billion more of tax breaks in that period.
In the long run, the government faces rising interest costs from the increasing level of debt it is amassing. (Debt held by the public, the portion of the total national debt generated by year-to-year budget deficits, currently stands at around $4 trillion.) Only a few years ago, when the nation was awash in budget surpluses, both parties pledged to pay off the debt held by the public. Such a step would have made it easier for the government to address a problem now just over the horizon: the prospect that Social Security and Medicare will not be able to pay full benefits to the baby boomers as they retire.
Mr. Bush is considering a new push next year on behalf of his plan to overhaul Social Security through the creation of private investment accounts, a change that would require large though temporary infusions of cash. But any effort to promote his approach will run into questions about whether it is fiscally feasible given the likelihood of large long-term budget deficits.
Both the White House and the Congressional Budget Office are updating their deficit projections and will make them public in January or February, just when the presidential campaign is getting under way in earnest.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, shown arriving back in Waco, Tex., early yesterday after his trip to Iraq, is nearing some intense budget decision-making. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MEDICARE (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (55%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (55%); TERRORISM (55%) Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) Richard W Stevenson; Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



682 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: America's Sugar Daddies 

 BODY:
Sugar growers in this country, long protected from global competition, have had a great run at the expense of just about everyone else -- refineries, candy manufacturers, other food companies, individual consumers and farmers in the developing world. But now the nation's sugar program, which guarantees a domestic price for raw sugar that can be as much as three times the world price, needs to be terminated. It has become far too costly to America's global economic and strategic interests.
 The less defensible a federal policy is on its merits, the greater the likelihood that it generates (or originates from) a great deal of cash in Washington, in the form of campaign contributions. Sugar is a sweet case in point. The Fanjul brothers, Florida's Cuban-American reigning sugar barons who preside over Palm Beach's yacht-owning society, were alone responsible for generating nearly $1 million in soft-money donations during the 2000 election cycle. Alfonso Fanjul, the chief executive of the family-controlled Flo-Sun company, served as Bill Clinton's Florida co-chairman in 1992 -- and even merited a mention in the impeachment-scandal Starr report, when Monica Lewinsky testified that the president received a call from him during one of their trysts. Meanwhile, brother Pepe is equally energetic in backing Republicans, so all bases are covered. 
 The Fanjuls harvest 180,000 acres in South Florida that send polluted water into the Everglades. (A crucial part of their business over the years has been to lobby not just against liberalization of the sugar trade, but against plans to have the sugar industry pay its fair share of the ambitious $8 billion Everglades restoration project.) The Fanjuls had been Cuba's leading sugar family for decades before Fidel Castro's takeover. Crossing the Straits of Florida, they bought land in the vicinity of Lake Okeechobee, which feeds the Everglades, and imported platoons of poorly paid Caribbean migrant workers. Their business was aided by the embargo on Cuban sugar. The crop is protected from other competition by an intricate system of import quotas that dates back to 1981.
The government does not pay sugar producers income supports as it does many other kinds of farmers. Instead, it guarantees growers like the Fanjuls an inflated price by restricting supply. Only about 15 percent of American sugar is imported under the quota rules, and while the world price is about 7 cents a pound, American businesses that need sugar to make their products must pay close to 21 cents. Preserving this spread between domestic and world sugar prices costs consumers an estimated $2 billion a year, and nets the Fanjuls -- who have been called the first family of corporate welfare -- tens of millions annually. The sugar exporters who are able to sell to the United States also benefit from those astronomical prices. The Dominican Republic is the largest quota holder, and one of the big plantation owners there is -- surprise -- the Fanjul family.
The sugar situation hurts American businesses and consumers, but its worst impact is on the poor countries that try to compete in the global agricultural markets. Their farmers might never be able to compete with corn or wheat farmers in the United States, even if the playing field were leveled. But they can grow cotton and sugar at lower prices than we can, no matter how advanced our technology. Our poorer trading partners bitterly resent the way this country feels entitled to suspend market-driven rules whenever it appears they will place American producers at a disadvantage.
In fairness, the United States is not alone in distorting the sugar trade, and the European Union's massively subsidized exports of beet sugar make it the biggest culprit. The American sugar lobby uses that fact as a shield, arguing that the crop not be included in any regional trade deals until distortions are addressed by all countries at the World Trade Organization. But quotas are set between trading partners, not on a global level. Right now the United States is negotiating the creation of a hemispheric free trade area that would benefit many United States industries, including other agricultural sectors. It is ridiculous for the sugar lobby to argue -- as it does vociferously -- that sugar should not be included in the agreement even though it is one of the few products that some Latin American republics can hope to ship to the American market. 
So far the Bush administration has rightly rejected the sugar lobby's push to keep the commodity off the table. The danger, however, is that American trade negotiators might still prove far too deferential to sugar industries when hammering out the trade deals' specifics. For instance, any move to phase in elimination of sugar quotas over a period longer than a decade (as was done in the North American Free Trade Agreement) would undermine any promise a trade deal might hold for poor farmers in Latin America. The strength of the protectionist sugar lobby in Washington -- which unites Southeastern cane growers and Midwestern beet farmers -- was apparent in the success of Senator Mary Landrieu of Louisiana last year in bashing Nafta's modest sugar provision during her re-election bid.
If the sugar trade were liberalized, world prices would start creeping up and domestic prices would fall, which would benefit both the developing world and the American economy. The industry itself cites "alarming" studies that if the United States imported an additional two million metric tons -- roughly the amount Central America exports -- domestic prices would be cut in half. But that is no argument for opposing trade liberalization. That is an argument for the handful of individuals who control the sugar business in this country to start thinking about a new line of work, and be grateful for the long run they had.

Harvesting Poverty: Editorials in this series remain online at nytimes.com/harvestingpoverty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUGAR FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); SUGAR MARKETS (89%); SUGAR MFG (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (85%); FOOD PRICES (79%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (79%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); LOBBYING (75%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (75%); FAMILY (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (69%); LAKES (68%); MIGRANT WORKERS (64%); WATER POLLUTION (64%); LAND RECLAMATION (63%) Sugar; Editorials; Surveys and Series; International Trade and World Market; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sugar

COMPANY: SUNOCO INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (69%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (69%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); FIDEL CASTRO (53%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); CUBA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



683 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Share Prices Are Flat in Light Post-Holiday Trading

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks finished essentially flat yesterday in very light post-Thanksgiving trading, as the market struggled to find direction with no economic news.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.89 points, or 0.03 percent, to close at 9,782.46. 
 Broader stock indicators were narrowly mixed at the end of yesterday's abbreviated trading session. The Nasdaq composite index gained 6.95 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,960.26. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 0.25 point, to 1,058.20. 
 For the week, the Dow finished 1.6 percent higher, the Nasdaq advanced 3.5 percent, and the S.&P. gained 2.2 percent. It was the first winning week in three weeks.
 For the month, the three main gauges finished mixed, with the Dow slipping 0.2 percent, the Nasdaq gaining 1.5 percent, and the S.&P. rising 0.7 percent.
 The drift in stocks during yesterday's session reflected a day with almost no market-shaping news. The exceptions were President Bush's surprise trip to Iraq and the dollar's drop to a new low against the euro, continuing a recent trend. The dollar was also lower against most other major currencies.
 The news on the dollar would normally be expected to push stocks lower, and it exerted some downward pressure. But almost always edges higher the day after Thanksgiving, with so many people taking the day off that there is usually little selling momentum, said Todd Clark, head of listed equity trading at Wells Fargo Securities in San Francisco.
 "We're basically seeing the weak dollar get shrugged off in favor of more of the seasonality factor here," Mr. Clark said.
 The flat day in stocks came after fourconsecutive sessions of gains on Wall Street, capped by modest increases on Wednesday, the last trading day before the holiday.
 With most traders and investors taking the day off, the stock market closed at 1 p.m. 
 Shares of Johnson & Johnson fell 41 cents, to $49.29, after the company's announcement that it had suspended trials of an anemia drug, Procrit, because some patients had developed blood clotting.
 On the day regarded as the kickoff to the holiday shopping season, shares of Wal-Mart Stores fell 6 cents, to $55.64.
 Shares in Toys "R" Us rose 42 cents, to $11.74.
 The pharmaceutical maker Schering-Plough was up 69 cents a share, to $16.07, after the company said its chairman and chief executive, Fred Hassan, had bought $4.7 million of its stock.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Plunge
By Reuters
 Treasury prices sagged yesterday, sending short-term yields near their highs for the year, as a holiday-thinned bond market was caught in the backwash of a sinking dollar.
 The latest slide in the dollar to lifetime lows against the euro has revived concerns that the risk of foreign exchange losses might scare foreign investors away from United States assets. A lower currency is also seen as a boost to United States manufacturing activity, which recent data suggests is already strengthening quite markedly. 
 The 10-year Treasury note declined 21/32, to a price of 99 12/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.33 percent from 4.24 percent on Wednesday.
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 29/32, to 103 19/32. The bond's yield edged up to 5.13 percent from 5.07 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TRENDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); EURO (66%); ANEMIA (65%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Stock Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%); TOYS 'R' US INC (51%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (63%); WMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (51%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (51%)

PERSON: FRED HASSAN (75%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



684 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Trade Sanctions Against U.S. to Be Delayed 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization has agreed to a 10-day delay before Europe can impose $2.2 billion in sanctions against the United States in response to steel tariffs imposed by President Bush last year, an administration official said on Friday.
 The decision was reached in Geneva on Thursday after the European Union and other nations that had complained about the tariffs joined with the Bush administration in seeking a delay, the official said. The earliest date that Europe can impose sanctions will now be Dec. 15. 
 This gives Mr. Bush breathing room to make a decision about lifting the tariffs that will be important both economically and politically.
 Two weeks ago, the W.T.O. rejected an appeal of the decision made last July in a case brought by Brazil, China, the European Union, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, Norway and Switzerland.
 Pascal Lamy, Europe's top trade official, has warned the Bush administration and Congress that if the steel tariffs are not lifted, Europe will proceed with more than $2 billion in sanctions on imports of steel, clothing, citrus fruits and other agriculture products from the United States.
 Adding to the pressure, Japan said on Wednesday that it, too, would place tariffs on American imports if the Bush administration maintains the steel tariffs.
 The loss of jobs, especially manufacturing jobs, is proving to be a powerful issue in the coming elections. The 20-month- old steel tariffs, which the government calls safeguards, have been credited with helping the American steel industry consolidate and save jobs in industrial states. 
But the tariffs, which have raised the price of imported steel as much as 30 percent, have also been blamed for the loss of jobs by American manufacturing companies that use steel. The manufacturing companies say the tariffs have raised their costs, cut their profits and forced them to delay expansion and lay off employees. 
 With the election nearing, President Bush must choose between continuing to help the steel industry and the unions that support the tariffs or respecting international trade laws that would help him advance regional and global trade agreements.
 For his part, Mr. Bush said after losing the appeal that because he had imposed the tariffs to help the steel industry get back on its feet, he would make his decision after "reviewing the extent to which the industry has been restructured."
 Several leading steel companies have suggested a compromise to Mr. Bush that would reduce the tariffs and their duration in hopes of appeasing the Europeans. 
 Terrence D. Straub of the United States Steel Corporation, said it was "hard to tell if this delay means anything."
 "The president wanted more time and they agreed to that, which they should have," he said, referring to W.T.O. officials.
 Among the states that will be affected by the president's decision is Pennsylvania. Mr. Bush will attend a fund-raising event in Pittsburgh on Tuesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (94%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); APPEALS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PRICE CHANGES (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); AGRICULTURE (52%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Steel and Iron; International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff); Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Protectionism (Trade); Steel and Iron

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) European Union

TICKER: X (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (85%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); PASCAL LAMY (58%) Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); JAPAN (92%); BRAZIL (79%); NORWAY (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2003 



685 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1790 words

HEADLINE: Most Popular Travel Vehicle: a Whim 

BYLINE:  By BARRY ESTABROOK; BARRY ESTABROOK writes frequently for the Travel section.

 BODY:
FOR travelers who have put off making holiday reservations, there's some early cheer: as late as the week before Thanksgiving, rooms were still available at popular winter resorts -- on the ski slopes and on the beaches. At a time when most hotels are usually booked solid, late planners could even find bargains on the Web. "There are still plenty of opportunities for any number of cruises and resorts," said Karen Crager, public relations manager for 11thHourVacations.com, a site serving late bookers. "But if you are looking at a specific travel date, I would advise you to book soon to get the maximum amount of choice."
 In the Caribbean, popular resorts like Little Dix Bay on Virgin Gorda and Curtain Bluff in Antiguawere, as usual, booked solid between Christmas and New Year's. But there was still space available at the Ritz-Carlton Rose Hall in Jamaica and at all 17 Sandals and Beaches properties. Skiers hoping to get into The Lodge at Vail after Dec. 26 were out of luck, but there were rooms at the nearby Inn at Beaver Creek. Thanks to some cancellations, Thunderbird Lodge in Taos had space throughout the holidays. 
 "A few years ago, you would never think of getting Christmas space in November because it was all sold out," said Kevin Matier, director of Caribbean product for Travel Impressions, a tour operator that sells through travel agents only and develops packages for American Express Vacations. "Although the Christmas holidays have filled up quite a bit, some hotels still have space."
 Travelers who have found themselves procrastinating lately when it comes to firming up vacation plans are in good company. A telephone survey of 1,300 American adults conducted in November 2002 by the Travel Industry Association of America indicated that nearly two-thirds of leisure travelers -- about 83 million people -- had started planning at least one trip taken in the previous year within two weeks of the departure date. A quarter of those truly left on a whim, deciding one or two days ahead. 
 "The trend toward last-minute travel had been building for quite some time," said Cathy Keefe, a spokeswoman for the Washington-based association, which represents all components of the travel business. "But it really took off after Sept. 11 and continues to be strong."
 Acknowledging that the genteel days of clients' locking in vacation plans several months in advance are fading, the travel industry has begun to cater to the urge to make arrangements at the 11th hour. Through Web sites and electronic newsletters, virtually all airlines offer deeply discounted fares, frequently making them public only a few days before departure. 
 Site59.com, 11thHourVacations.com, Hotwire.com and LastMinuteTravel.com are among the Internet sites that appeal to vacationers who decide to get away on the spur of the moment. Even the carriage-trade tour company Abercrombie & Kent (www.abercrombiekent.com) has recently started a Signature series of vacations designed for spontaneous journeys to places like the Galapagos, China and Botswana.
 And although waiting until the last minute involves the risk of not finding an airplane seat or a hotel room, it can also bring rewards: considerable savings.
 "The best way to get what you want is to be flexible," said Gayle MacIntyre, director of marketing communications for the Web site LastMinuteTravel.com, which offers a wide range of travel services in all price ranges including flights, hotel rooms, package tours and cruises. "Travelers should adopt a broad view: 'I want a beach and sunny, warm weather.' If you come to our site with that attitude, you could find yourself going to Mexico, the Caribbean or Hawaii, but you will end up with something."
 That was the experience of Ann Maine, editor in chief of Traditional Home magazine, who lives in Des Moines and describes herself as the Queen of Spontaneity. Because of a busy schedule, she put off booking her family's spring-break vacation in 2002 until a week before school recessed. "I called up my travel agent and said, 'All I want is blue water, sun and a beach,"' she said. Although most tropical hotels were booked solid, Ms. Maine was able to find rooms at a Beaches resort in Jamaica.
 The content of LastMinuteTravel's site tends to be dynamic, Ms. MacIntyre said, and changes throughout the day. "When members of the industry realize they have availability, they can get offers up on the site in minutes for travelers who are seeking opportunities," she said. "A resort may be sold out now, and then people cancel."
 Donatella Bennett might be considered something of an accidental last-minute tourist. During summer 2002, her daughter decided to go to camp three weeks before the session was to begin. Ms. Bennett, a personal trainer from Frederick, Md., decided to seize the opportunity to take a quick vacation with her fiance. "We wanted to get out of the country, and the total cost of the trip had to be under $2,000," Ms. Bennett said. She went to 11thHourVacations.com and found a package that fit the bill: a week for two in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, for $1,500, with air fare. It was a much better rate than that paid by many of the more-disciplined guests at the hotel who had booked months in advance.
 Although they cater to those who postpone planning, LastMinuteTravel.com and 11thHourVacations.com do not discriminate against the better-organized traveler by limiting how far ahead clients can book. 
 For those seeking a truly spur-of-the-moment getaway, Site59.com offers air and hotel packages (including taxes and fees) that can only be reserved 3 to 14 days before departure. The company specializes in trips of three to five days spanning weekends. Its Web site allows customers to depart from 76 cities across the United States to both internal and international destinations. 
 This month, for instance, the site offered 94 international air-hotel packages from New York that included five nights in Toronto beginning at $333 a person, in double occupancy, three nights in London beginning at $469 and three nights in San Juan for $310.
 While many last-minute travel purveyors gear themselves toward bargain hunters, Abercrombie & Kent's Signature itineraries, recently expanded to 18 destinations on all continents except Antarctica, are designed for last-minute travelers with a taste for luxury, and budgets to indulge that taste. 
 The company says it has reserved first-class or deluxe space in hotels at the most desirable times of year in each destination. English-speaking drivers are on call, and they also serve as guides for the company's clients, taking them to the area's must-see sights. With one phone call, a client can find out if there is availability and, if so, book the services already set aside. 
 "The driving force behind the Signature series was that, even among our clients, we recognized that there was this trend of booking at the last moment," said Pamela Lassers, a spokeswoman for Abercrombie & Kent. "This way, all the groundwork has already been done before they call."
 Among the Signature offerings is a 14-day trip to India, with a cruise on Lake Pichola, an elephant ride to the Amber Fort in Jaipur, a visit to a tiger reserve and a sunset tour of the Taj Mahal. Departures are between Jan. 9 and 21, and the cost -- not including air fare -- begins at $4,955 a person, double. A similarly deluxe 11-day Signature trip to Italy beginning Jan. 5 is $8,215 a person.
 In August, Tony Hepburn, a lawyer in Nassau, the Bahamas, cancelled plans for a trip to northern Africa at the last minute, fearing terrorism. It would have been the third year in a row that Mr. Hepburn and his wife saw their vacation plans to Africa thwarted, so with about a month to spare, they booked a Signature trip to southern Africa through Abercrombie & Kent that included stopovers in Cape Town, Robben Island (whereNelson Mandela was imprisoned), the Singita game reserve and Victoria Falls. He booked Atlanta-to-Cape Town flights at Travelzoo.com, a site that offers last-minute deals. "If we'd done it ourselves, it would have been hit or miss," Mr. Hepburn said. "They had everything arranged for us. I don't normally book late, but it worked out fine."
 But even as late booking becomes the norm, there are some signs that the golden era for last-minute travel may be passing, particularly in popular destinations such as the Caribbean, where two years ago the hardest choice a procrastinator had to make was which enticement to go for: cash rebates, deep discounts at all-inclusive resorts, free extra nights at hotels or free flights. Now it may be tough to get a room during holidays and school breaks and even tougher to get a reasonably priced flight.
 "There was a lot of extra capacity in airlines," said Mr. Matier, of Travel Impressions. "When you have a situation where there is excess capacity, it pays consumers to wait. That trend is starting to reverse."
 Alec Sanguinetti, director general of the Caribbean Hotel Association, said that the improvement in the economy and not having the prospects of war have helped bookings throughout the Caribbean for the coming holiday and winter season. "The booking window narrowed considerably after Sept. 11," he said. "But for the first time since the terrorist attacks, we are noticing that people are reserving further out this winter." 
 Two years ago, the Web site of Mr. Sanguinetti's organization, at www.caribbeanhotels.org, had a page where 50 member hotels offered discounts and incentives. That page is now down. "The rates are firming up," he said. "We are not seeing the discounting that was going on."
 It's also getting harder to find a low-cost, last-minute airline ticket, according to Tom Parsons, president of BestFares.com.
 "Since Sept. 11 we have had it very easy," he said. "There were super-cheap fares, and we could usually find them without booking very far in advance. There are still bargains -- especially to Europe -- but the number of opportunities is diminishing greatly. To get them, you have to scope out not where you are going next weekend, but where you are going four months from now."
 But to some die-hard last-minute travelers, accepting an element of uncertainty is part of the allure. Carl Schmehl, a Manhattan-based theater and special events producer, took six last-minute vacations this year. "You are always a little afraid that you won't get a room or an airline reservation, especially as the time when you want to leave gets closer," Mr. Schmehl said. "But if you can really hold out, you can get the best deals." Mr. Schmehl says he is toying with the idea of getting away to Las Vegas over Christmas. But he isn't sure. Something else may come up. There's still time.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 7, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about last-minute travel misstated the deadline for reserving trips via the Web at Site59.com. It is up to three hours before departure, not three days.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Thomas Fuchs) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); RESORTS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); SKIING (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); TOUR PACKAGES (78%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); BEACHES (77%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%); TRENDS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); AIRLINES (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); HOTWIRE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%) TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSN OF AMERICA 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (50%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: ESTABROOK, BARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



686 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Susan Burger, Michael Ranis

 BODY:
Susan Burger and Michael Bruce Ranis were married last evening by Rabbi Yael B. Ridberg at the Pratt Mansion in New York.
 Mrs. 
Ranis, 37, is a marketing and public relations consultant in Bronxville, N.Y. She graduated from the State University of New York at Binghamton and received a master's degree in speech and language pathology from Syracuse University. She is the daughter of the late Helen and Matthew Burger, who owned Burger's Market, a deli and dry goods store that was in Middletown, N.Y. 
 Mr. Ranis, 43, is a trial lawyer on the staff of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in New York. He graduated from Yale and received his law degree from Harvard. He is a son of Prof. Rachel Ranis and Prof. Gustav Ranis of Woodbridge, Conn. His mother is a professor of sociology at Quinnipiac University in Hamden, Conn. His father is the Frank Altschul professor of international economics at Yale and the director of university's Center for International and Area Studies, which promotes study of international relations throughout the school's academic departments. 
The bride's previous marriage ended in divorce. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); SOCIOLOGY (67%); LAWYERS (67%); SPEECH THERAPY (56%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (57%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (57%)

PERSON: BURGER, SUSAN (SUSAN RANIS); RANIS, MICHAEL BRUCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



687 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: THE GUIDE 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA DELATINER

 BODY:
Best Bet
In 1996 at one of his readings, Graham Everett, a poet, was asked by two musicians in the audience if they could set some of his poems to music. Flattered by the request, he "of course, said 'yes,"' recalled Mr. Everett, 56, of Sound Beach. 
 Eventually he and the musicians -- Janene Gentile on bass and Demoy Shilling on guitar -- formed the group Middle Class. He writes the lyrics to their songs. The name is a nod to the group members' economic class, Mr. Everett said, and their middle age. Since 2001, Raymond Kruse has joined them on drums. The three musicians are from Miller Place. 
 Everyone in the ensemble has day jobs. Mr. Everett is a professor of general studies at Adelphi University; Ms. Gentile is the director of the North Shore Youth Council; Mr. Shilling is a machinist at Stony Brook Hospital; and Mr. Kruse teaches in the Sachem school district. And so Middle Class performs only about six times a year at libraries, bookstores or experimental music venues.
On Friday night at 8, the group will appear at the Walt Whitman Birthplace on Old Walt Whitman Road in South Huntington. Information: (631)427-5240. 

A Film Preview
Jim Sheridan, the writer and director of "My Left Foot" and "In the Name of the Father," previews his latest film, "In America," at the Cinema Arts Center on Park Avenue in Huntington today.
The film is a contemporary Irish immigrant saga and will be shown at 10:30 a.m. Afterward is a question-and-answer session with Mr. Sheridan, and then an Irish luncheon. Information: (631)423-7611.

Pulling Strings
Ridotto, the music and theater company, today presents Manuel de Falla's opera for marionettes, "El Retablo de Maese Pedro ("Master Peter's Puppet Theater")."
The work will be performed by the Puppet Company with Steven Widerman, director and master puppeteer. Thomas Tirino accompanies on the piano; the music is by the Cuban composer Ernesto Lecuona.
The show is at 4 p.m. at the Old First Church on Main Street in Huntington. Information: (631)385-0373.

Dishing With Divas
Two celebrated divas from the 1940's meet up with "Dixie Carlyle," a fictitious Hollywood radio star created to preside over living history programs at local sites.
In Centerport at the Vanderbilt Museum on Little Neck Road, Dixie oversees "The Big Broadcast of 1942 -- U.S.O. Ho, Ho, Ho Holiday Tour." Frances Langford is the guest, chatting with her host and singing the hits of the period. The shows are at 10 a.m. on Sundays with brunch through Jan. 4, and at 7 p.m. with a dessert buffet from Dec. 27 through Dec. 30. Information: (631)854-5550.
At the Educational and Cultural Center on Main Street in Stony Brook, the setting is Dixie's house for "Home for the Holidays With Judy Garland." The two gossip over the news of the day and talk about the singer's career and, of course, pause for Judy to sing. These shows offer high-tea luncheons, and are at 11:30 a.m. on Wednesdays and Saturdays, and at 12:30 p.m. on Sundays, through Jan. 4. Information: (631)689-5888.

Free Choices
TODAY -- In a one-man show, David Houston performs "A Christmas Carol" at 2 p.m. at the Copiague Library on Deauville Boulevard. Information: (631)691-1111. In Northport, "Miracle on 34th Street," gets the radio-play treatment from Voices at 2 p.m. at the library on Laurel Avenue. Information: (631)261-6930.
WEDNESDAY -- Ron Kuby, a lawyer, and Ruth Wedgwood, a law professor, appear in "Balancing Freedom and Security: A Debate on Civil Liberties in Post-9/11 America" at 2 p.m. at Nassau Community College's College Center in Garden City. Information: (516)572-7153.
SATURDAY -- The EAB Christmas Tree, Long Island's answer to Rockefeller Center's symbol of the holiday, will be lighted at 5:30 p.m. at the EAB Plaza in Uniondale. While the 78-foot-tall, 7 1/2-ton Douglas fir is the star of the evening, there is also music and ice skating. Information: (516)683-0339.
The Massapequa Philharmonic Orchestra performs works by Bruch, Tchaikovsky and Wagner at 8:30 p.m. at Berner Middle School on Carmans Mill Road. Rachel Lee, 15, is the violinist, and George Garrett Keast is guest conductor,. Information: (516)795-4071. BARBARA DELATINER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); WRITERS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (86%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); OPERA (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); FILM (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); THEATER & DRAMA (65%); THEATER (58%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



688 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: The Man Behind the Surplus (Remember?) 

BYLINE:  By David Warsh; David Warsh, the editor of EconomicPrincipals.com, has been named the J. P. Morgan International Prize fellow at the American Academy in Berlin for spring 2004.

 BODY:
 IN AN UNCERTAIN WORLD
Tough Choices From
Wall Street to Washington.
By Robert E. Rubin
and Jacob Weisberg.
Illustrated. 427 pp. New York:
Random House. $35.
 AFTER his unexpected victory over George H. W. Bush in the 1992 election ("It's the economy, stupid"), president-elect Bill Clinton convened a big meeting of his advisers in Little Rock. Everything at that moment seemed up in the air, the proverbial three-ring circus. Did the economy need stimulus+from government spending? Or deficit reduction? Gradually, the countless promises of the campaign gave way to a few flesh-and-blood appointments: Senator Lloyd Bentsen to the Treasury, old pals Rob-ert Reich to the Department of Labor and Ira C. Magaziner to the health care task force as chief of staff to Hillary Rodham Clinton, Laura D'Andrea Tyson to the Council of Economic Advisers and, as director of the soon-to-be-created National Economic Council, the inconspicuous investment banker Robert E. Rubin. He would become, to begin with, assistant to the president for economic policy.
A decade later, Bentsen is virtually forgotten, but Rubinomics has become a noun in common use, denoting a set of economic policies either praised or blamed as the essence of the Clinton presidency. Narrowly construed, Rubinomics signifies soaring prices for stocks, real+estate and other assets, low inflation, declining unemployment, increasing productivity, a strong dollar, low tariffs, the willingness to serve as global crisis manager and lender of last resort and, most of all, a huge projected federal budget surplus -- huge, that is, before the stock market bubble burst and the recent mild recession began. The 1990's presented the longest business expansion in history. That made Robert Rubin the best-known Treasury secretary since Andrew W. Mellon -- a tax cutter who made his political reputation while serving Presidents Warren Harding, Calvin Coolidge and Herbert Hoover through the 1920's.
In fact, there are similarities. Both men were quite wealthy, so they knew a good deal about the rich. Mellon made his fortune in Pittsburgh by starting companies (Alcoa, Gulf Oil, Carborundum and Koppers). Rubin made his on Wall Street by rearranging them, first as a specialist in deal arbitrage, later as a co-chairman of Goldman Sachs. Each made his reputation in international finance with a deft refunding of foreign debt (Mellon in Europe, Rubin in Mexico.) The "lean elegance" that distinguished Mellon in any large gathering of officials was noted by Walter Lippmann. Robert Rubin had those qualities too, and he was only 54 when he went to Washington, a dozen years younger than Mellon.
But just because you come from money doesn't mean you necessarily think that wisdom comes from money, too. By most accounts, Mellon believed that big businessmen should run the country with a view to keeping taxes fair and low and not much else. Rubin believed that government has a central role to play not only in economic housekeeping but in the melioration of poverty as well. Hence this gem of book. It was written with Jacob Weisberg, himself the author in 1996 of "In Defense of Government," and now editor of Slate. 
As "In an Uncertain World" compactly relates, Rubin was born in New York City in 1938. He grew up in Miami Beach. His paternal grandfather, Morris Rubin, made a small fortune in Florida real estate during the 1920's, then lost much of it in the land bust that preceded the crash. He arrived at his son's graduation from Columbia Law School in 1930, disheveled for having driven through the night from Miami with a pistol in the glove compartment, debating whether to shoot himself or show up. (He achieved cheerful equanimity thereafter.) Rubin's maternal grandfather was a big-shot Brooklyn lawyer. So no one was astonished when Bob Rubin sailed through Harvard College,+the London School of Economics and Yale Law School, or when he married wisely and joined a Manhattan law firm. The big surprise was the leap to investment banking; the partnership at Goldman in 1971 was, Rubin says, "a very low probability bet."
Politics was always an ambition, but Rubin learned something about timing during his 26 years on Wall Street. He declined to be considered for an opening under Alfred Kahn,+the+inflation+czar in the Carter administration, because "the job wasn't positioned to work, in terms of either its staffing and authority within the administration or its conceptual approach." Fifteen years later, the conditions were right. And some of the most interesting passages in "Living in an Uncertain World" describe Rubin's approach to consensus building. When+he+joined the Clinton adminstration he formed a lasting alliance with the economist Lawrence Summers, who was widely considered to have somehow finished out of the money when he took a less-than-visible job at Treasury rather than as the administration's chief economist. Summers, too, had navigated the shoals, starting four years earlier as economic adviser to the Dukakis campaign. Two years later, the 73-year-old Bentsen retired from the Treasury: Rubin became secretary; and Summers began his rise. He succeeded Rubin in 1999. 
It would seem difficult to argue with Rubin's economic performance. What's not to like? The book describes the solution of one barely+manageable problem after another -- the initial budget deal, the Mexican crisis, avoiding a government shutdown over+the debt ceiling, the Asian financial crisis, the insolvency of the giant Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund. Indeed, the level of sheer talent among Clinton administration economic policy officials in those years is astonishing. 
Yes, there are three frequently heard complaints about Rubinomics. Those on the right consider that the budget balancing begun by Bush and continued by Clinton produced a halting recovery, and that only after Newt Gingrich established Republican control of the House of Representatives with his "Contract With America" was the budget balanced and the real bull market begun. Those on the left argue that the Treasury secretary from Goldman Sachs made the world safe enough for investment bankers, but that globalization too often proceeded on unfavorable terms for nearly everyone else. And those who saw the value of their portfolios collapse in 2001 may feel that Rubin and Greenspan and Summers -- The Committee to Save the World," as a famous Time magazine cover+had+it -- somehow created the bubble. 
(A fourth complaint, that the administration botched the United States' relationship with Russia, is not mentioned in the book. A government lawsuit, demanding $120 million from Harvard University for the fraud it alleges was committed by the leaders of an+economic mission to Moscow under the general supervision of Rubin and Summers, is awaiting a finding by Judge Douglas Woodlock in United States District Court in Boston. Summers today is president of Harvard; Rubin is a member of its small governing corporation.)
To the critics of his budget balancing, Rubin replies that the 1993 tax increases affected only the top-earning 1.2 percent of all Americans -- but that the gain in business confidence from the demonstration of fiscal discipline was incalculably large. Long-term interest rates began declining almost immediately, and continued to fall until they reached levels not seen since the 1950's. To the anti-globalization critics, he acknowledges that capital often flowed too freely during the 90's in the "reach for yield." But his discussion of the fine points of improving financial architecture in anticipation of the next fiscal crisis is persuasive: no matter how much was learned, "future financial crises are almost surely inevitable and could be even more severe." As for the bubble, Rubin disclaims responsibility: "A Treasury secretary serving as a market commentator and hoisting a green, red or yellow flag depending on his current view is a genuinely bad idea." Besides, by the time the Nasdaq went crazy, Rubin had already returned to New York and a top job at Citigroup. 
Certainly there are some striking similarities between the 20's and the 90's. Joseph Stiglitz, an internal critic of Clinton administration policies even more vocal than Reich (Stiglitz was a member, then chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers), recently published a book called "The Roaring Nineties: A New History of the World's Most Prosperous Decade" that deliberately evokes the comparison. But there is a big difference. The crash in October 1929 deepened into the Great Depression. Andrew Mellon stayed on too long and was hounded from the stage. Robert Rubin would almost certainly be invited back to Washington by a future Democratic administration -- to manage the nation's central bank.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (87%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RECESSION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); US DOLLAR (65%); PRICE INCREASES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); ALCOA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (91%) ARKANSAS, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



689 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 86

LENGTH: 2537 words

HEADLINE: Necessity Is the Mother Of Invention 

BYLINE:  By Pagan Kennedy; Pagan Kennedy is a frequent contributor to the magazine and last wrote about biodiesel fuel.

 BODY:
Striding down a hallway at M.I.T., Amy Smith has a bucket in one hand and a length of string in the other. The brain behind such creations as the phase-change incubator, she is on her way to the Charles River to retrieve some dirty water for her next class. As she lopes along, Smith describes the ordeals of testing water in remote villages. Her words spurt out. She's a woman on fast-forward, and she does not so much talk as download information. 
 We reach the massive front doors of M.I.T.'s main building, and she pushes out into the crisp air and roar of traffic. Without interrupting her disquisition on water-testing, she perches sidesaddle on a banister. Elegantly poised, she slides down the handrail, still talking. 
 She lands on the sidewalk with a practiced leap. "You slide faster in the winter," she says, "when you've got a wool coat on." 
If you're an inventor and you ride the banister below the pillared entrance of a university, there's a good chance of coming off as way too cute, like Robin Williams playing an inventor in a Disney movie. But Smith can get away with this kind of flourish. She is, after all, one of the brightest minds in a movement that sets out to prove that the best technology can be cheap and simple. The banister is a perfect example: it requires less energy than the stairs, and it's free.
In a culture that hails mobile phones and plasma-screen televisions as the great innovations of our time, Smith is gloriously out of step. She designs medical devices and labor-saving machines for people who live at the far end of dirt roads in Africa. Her inventions cost anywhere from a few hundred dollars to a few pennies. "You can't understand how important a grain mill is," she says, "until you've spent three hours pounding grain and gotten a cup and a half of flour." It is this kind of understanding -- of tedium, of tired muscles, of hunger pangs -- that Smith brings to her work. 
An hour later, in Smith's "D-lab" class, students gather around a huge, black-topped slab of a table. It's the first semester of design lab, and these undergrads are learning about the politics of delivering technology to poor nations, how to speak a little Creole and the nitty-gritty of mechanical engineering; during the midsemester break, they will travel to Haiti, Brazil or India. There, they will act as consultants in remote villages, helping locals solve technical problems. Oh, yes, and the students will also test village drinking water for dangerous bacteria.
Today, Smith is training them to do that. Using a small pump, the students draw the Charles River water through a filter. Smith points to a piece of the testing rig -- what looks like a silver barbell. "This test stand costs $600," she says. "Personally, I find that offensive." When the students work in the field, she says, they will be using a far cheaper setup -- one that she patched together herself for about $20, using a Playtex baby bottle. "You can do a lot more testing for the same amount of money."
Now the students have made cultures of Charles River water in petri dishes. The next step is to incubate the petri dishes for an entire day at a steady temperature. But how do you pull that off in a lean-to in Haiti, with no electricity for miles around? Again, Smith has a solution. She passes around a mesh bag of what appears to be white marbles. The "marbles" contain a chemical that, when heated and kept in an insulated environment, will stay at a steady 37 degrees Celsius for 24 hours. The balls are the crucial ingredient in one of Smith's inventions -- a phase-change incubator that requires no electricity. The design won her a 1999 Collegiate Inventors award. She says she hopes that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will soon endorse her incubator. "From there it's not a big step to go to the Red Cross," she says. One day it could be a key piece of equipment at rural health clinics, where doctors depend on intermittent electricity or none at all. Smith has founded a company to handle the exigencies of getting her incubators up and running and out into the field. "I have 6,000 of these balls on their way here from China as we speak," she says.
Now, Smith wants to demo a bacteria test in the dark. She asks a student to cut the lights. He flips a switch. For a moment, nothing happens, and then the room vibrates with a mechanical hum and panels close over a bank of skylights in the ceiling. All crane their necks to watch. The panels move in menacing slo-mo, like something out of a James Bond movie. A few people giggle, as if they have suddenly become aware of the contradictions thrumming in this room -- they've come to one of the best-financed technical institutes in the world to learn how to work with Playtex baby bottles. 
A few weeks from now, Smith will give them one of their toughest lessons in the gaps between first world and third. The students will spend a week surviving on $2 a day in Cambridge -- the equivalent of what the average Haitian earns. Last year, Jamy Drouillard, who was a teacher's assistant for Smith's class, performed the assignment along with his students. Drouillard grew up in Haiti, but that didn't give him any special edge. He laughs, remembering his chief mistake. "I bought a bunch of Ramen noodles, a packet of hotdogs, a bunch of spaghetti and some ketchup," he says. "It got sickening after Day 3. Actually, before Day 3. I should have mixed and matched instead of buying five boxes of spaghetti. In Haiti, people come up with creative ways of varying their food intake." He said the assignment drove home Smith's point quickly: living at subsistence level requires enormous creativity. The African farmwoman who finds a way to make a scrap of land yield enough cassava root for her family is as much an inventor as any M.I.T.-trained engineer.
Last year, at an academic dinner with a plentiful buffet, Smith pulled out crackers from her pocket and nibbled while colleagues feasted around her; she was sticking to the $2-a-day assignment in fellowship with her students. 
In the late 1980's, as a Peace Corps volunteer, Smith was stationed in Ghanzi, then a backwater of Botswana, down a dirt road that could take as long as three days to travel. "Nobody wanted to live there," she says. "You got sent there for punishment if you did badly in a job." 
Smith grew up in a comfortable, academic family. Her father taught electrical engineering at M.I.T.; her mother taught junior-high math. At the dinner table, the family would chitchat about ways to prove the Pythagorean theorem. In her first couple of years in the Peace Corps, she missed the kind of people she had known growing up in the orbit of M.I.T. -- people willing to engage, for instance, in passionate discussion about the innards of a motor. "I'd run into development workers who had no clue about engineering. They wouldn't understand that there was a way you could solve a problem."
In 1987, Smith returned home to Lexington, Mass., for her mother's funeral. Wandering through a supermarket after the service, she marveled at the lunacy of her own country: an entire aisle just for soup? It seemed impossible to bridge the gap between America and Botswana.
About a year later, Smith was gazing out the window of her room, studying the expanse of the Kalahari Desert pocked by thorn bushes. Suddenly, she says, she understood the arc of her life: she would learn how to be an engineer and bring her skills to a place like this. So she applied to graduate programs and ended up back at M.I.T. in 1990. 
Sometime after she got there, a professor suggested that she try to solve a problem that bedevils people who live in rural Africa. It involves the hammer mill, a no-frills, motorized grain mill that women use to grind sorghum or millet into flour. The hammer mill can do a job in just a few minutes that might otherwise take hours, which makes it a hotly coveted item in developing nations. But there's a built-in flaw: the mill uses a wire-mesh screen. When that screen breaks, it cannot easily be replaced, because parts like that are scarce in Africa and not easy to fabricate. So for lack of a wire screen, grain mills often end up in the corner of a room, gathering dust. 
What was needed was something that could not only match the efficiency of the hammer mill but also use materials available to a blacksmith in Senegal. A group of M.I.T. students had come up with some ideas, but Smith, who had ground sorghum by hand in Botswana, knew they weren't fast enough. So she devised a system based on an elegantly simple element: air. She redesigned the machine to use the air passing through the mill to separate particles. The smaller ones -- aka flour -- get carried out while the larger ones stay behind. The resulting machine would cost a quarter of what its predecessors had and use far less energy.
For her work as an inventor, including the screenless hammer mill, Smith becamethe first woman ever to win a Lemelson-M.I.T. Student Prize. Past recipients of the high-profile award for inventing include David Levy, who patented not only the smallest keypad in the world but also a surgical technique that speeds the splicing of severed blood vessels.
Smith's entire life is like one of her inventions, portable and off the grid. At 41, she has no kids, no car, no retirement plan and no desire for a Ph.D. Her official title: instructor. "I'm doing exactly what I want to be doing. Why would I spend six years to get a Ph.D. to be in the position I'm in now, but with a title after my name? M.I.T. loves that I'm doing this work. The support is there. So I don't worry." It was a good thing that she won the Collegiate Inventors award in 1999, she says, because back then she was stretching a three-month graduate-student stipend to last for a year and didn't know how she'd pay her rent. The $7,500 prize came just in time.
Likewise, the inventors who most inspire her will never strike it rich. "There are geniuses in Africa, but they're not getting the press," she says. She gushes about Mohammed Bah Abba, a Nigerian teacher who came up with the pot-within-a-pot system. With nothing more than a big terra-cotta bowl, a little pot, some sand and water, Abba created a refrigerator -- the rig uses evaporation rather than electricity to keep vegetables cool. Innovations that target the poorest of the poor don't have to be complicated to make a big difference. The best solution is sometimes the most obvious.
Smith, of course, aims to design such hidden-in-plain-sight tools and deliver them to the needy. But she also wants to change people's understanding of what it means to be an inventor. To this end, she is a co-founder of the Ideas (Innovation Development Enterprise Action) competition at M.I.T.; students work with a community partner to solve a problem for the disenfranchised. Last year's winners, for instance, included a team that developed a kit for removing land mines so that farmers in places like Zimbabwe no longer have to improvise with hoes and rakes.
Success in the Ideas competition, as well as in the kind of design that Smith pursues, requires humility, because your masterpiece may end up looking like a bunch of rocks or a pile of sand. And since you'll be required to do extensive fieldwork to understand the problem you're solving, it also demands the skills of a crack Peace Corps volunteer, someone who remains cheerful even when the truck breaks down, the food runs out and you're the one who has to sleep next to the goat.
Women have the advantage here, unlike other branches of engineering. "I know how to be self-deprecating," Smith says. "The traditional male engineer is not taught that way." That engineer, were he trying to figure out an agricultural problem in Botswana, might consult with men, but that wouldn't get him very far. "In Africa, the women are the farmers. Women invented domesticated crops. If you're talking to the right people, they should be a group of elderly women with their hair up in bandannas."
As improbable as it may sound, Smith's brand of invention is moving into the mainstream. That is because her clients -- the disenfranchised in Africa, Haiti, Brazil, India -- are increasingly able to secure loans. The concept of microfinance, which first took off in the 1970's in Bangladesh, has gathered force throughout the developing world, giving impoverished people the capital they need to start small businesses and buy materials. According to Elizabeth Littlefield of the Consultative Group to Assist the Poor, a microfinance group within the World Bank, the integration of tiny loan-making operations into mainstream banking could bring billions of new consumers into the global marketplace over the next few decades. There have already been some surprising strides made. In India, for example, banks have set up solar-powered kiosks in out-of-the-way villages, giving clients access to financial services in places where there is not even electricity. But what will they invest in? The rural poor will need machines designed for their needs. And that will, in turn, create demand for new kinds of technologies.
In a barbecue pit near the M.I.T. student center, pale blue smoke streams out of a trash can and twists in the direction of the tennis courts. It smells of caramel. Shawn Frayne, a gangly guy with a shock of black hair, sticks a lighter down into the can. He's trying to get a fire going. He holds up one of his finished products -- a piece of charcoal that looks like a jet-black hamburger patty. It's made out of the parts of the sugarcane that aren't edible -- that is, trash. These humble wads could help to solve a number of problems in Haiti: poor people would be able to make their own charcoal rather than having to pay for the prefab variety, forests would no longer have to be cut down to make wood charcoal and local entrepreneurs could use the recipe to set up small businesses.
Frayne graduated from M.I.T. last year. He didn't like school much, except for Smith's design class, to which he is so devoted that he volunteered to put finishing touches on several inventions the class started last year. "I learned in an economics class that if someone has a good idea and they can implement it in a third-world country, they can dramatically change the economy of the country," Frayne says. "I was surprised by how much technology can affect the well-being of a people." 
Smith herself stands by, trying to keep the wind from whipping her blond hair into her face. "We're working on a portfolio of designs like this charcoal that we can show to the Peace Corps or to N.G.O.'s, groups that are trying to help people start up small businesses," she says. 
Frayne ducks down, pointing to the base of the trash can. "If we were in Haiti, we'd use dirt to seal up the bottom of the can," he says. "But I couldn't find any dirt around here, so I used duct tape."
Smith nods approvingly. "In Cambridge, duct tape is the equivalent of dirt," she says. She loves duct tape and all it stands for. She knows how to make a hammock and a kaleidoscope out of duct tape. It's a very useful material, no doubt, but if she were on her $2-a-day budget, she'd probably have to buy it on layaway. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: This letter S, called an asymmetrical S-hook, has an exaggerated lower half suggestive of Art Deco forms.; Right: Amy Smith, center, with students and inventions (from left: phase-change incubator, grain mill and sugarcane charcoal). (Photograph by BaerBel Schmidt); The marblelike balls that make Smith's incubator run without electricity.; Charcoal briquettes made from sugarcane waste. (Photographs by Amy Smith) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (76%); ENGINEERING (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); BACTERIA (64%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (64%); MEDICAL DEVICES (63%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (63%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (62%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Science and Technology; Biographical Information; Third World and Developing Countries

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%) Massachusetts Institute of Technology

PERSON: Pagan Kennedy; Amy Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



690 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut; 
New Offices, a 12 Mile Move, a $40 Million Tax Break

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: NORWALK 

 BODY:
Plans by the developer of an office and residential complex on Route 7 in Norwalk to lure a large tenant away from its present quarters in Stamford to one of two new office buildings he is building have brought criticism of the state economic development program that underpins the move.
 The developer, Building and Land Technologies of Norwalk, plans to lease one of the buildings now under construction to Diageo, a worldwide liquor, wine and beer company based in London. Its American offices are currently in Stamford. 
 Building and Land Technologies has been a strong player in the development of the Route 7 corridor. Its 20-acre Merritt on the River complex is immediately south of Merritt 7, a long-established six-building office park, and has direct access to the Merritt Parkway, the Route 7 connector to Interstate 95 and to a Metro-North stop. 
Diageo's building there is to have 275,000 square feet, and the other tower, being built on speculation, will have 360,000 square feet. 
The complex also has a 300,000 square-foot 227-unit apartment building, opened last year. Two other structures -- the former Caldor Building and the former Hewitt Building -- were renovated as first class office buildings in the past two years by Building and Land Technologies. 
Once the new towers are completed, Merritt on the River will have about 1.45 million square feet of commercial and residential space.
The criticism has been ignited by a tax package of $40 million approved for Diageo by the state's Department of Economic and Community Development. The city of Stamford considers the amount excessive for a company moving a dozen miles to Norwalk and promising to increase its employees from 700 to 1,000. 
While dismayed over losing a prized tenant, Mayor Dannel Malloy of Stamford said he had no quarrel with the company's right to move wherever it chooses. But "the amount of the state's incentive for job growth of only 300 is unheard of -- bizarre," he contended. "I don't think you could find a deal like this in any other state."
The package, which also includes economic growth requirements, could be overturned or amended if either house of the State Legislature acts by Dec. 8.
Diageo now occupies 140,000 square feet at the Landmark Building, Stamford's tallest, where its lease expires in two years, and another 260,000 square feet spread among four additional Stamford sites. In a three-year regional search for quarters where it could consolidate its scattered employees, including a small number in White Plains, the company looked at and rejected two sites in Stamford: one opposite the International Paper Building at Tresser Boulevard and Atlantic Street and the other just north of the train station and Interstate 95. 
The move to Norwalk would cost Stamford a negligible amount in direct revenues, Mayor Malloy said, since Diageo does not own the properties it occupies. "We collect perhaps $130,000 annually in personal property taxes for furniture, computers and other equipment," he said. But the city's office vacancy rate, now around 19 percent, is expected to rise by another percentage point or two with a Diageo move. 
Norwalk's vacancy rate of around 23 percent could go one way or another, depending on the leasing of the second of the two new office towers. But it would gain $21.5 million in property and personal property tax benefits over 10 years, according to the city's mayor, Alex Knopp. "The move would be a positive development for our local economy," he said, "accelerating an existing trend toward viewing Norwalk as a first class headquarters district."
UNDER Connecticut's three-year-old Urban Reinvestment Act, companies are granted tax breaks based on the number of jobs they are projected to create and the new state tax dollars they generate. "We estimate that Diageo could generate $56 million in new state revenues over 10 years," said Oley Carpp, managing director of the office of business recruitment at the state's Department of Economic and Community Development. "We came up with $40 million after due diligence on what it might cost them to stay in Connecticut rather than go to New York," which is what Diageo had said it might do.
UBS Warburg, which moved from out of state to Stamford, "got something like this," he said, "about $120 million over 10 years." 
Bombarded with objections to the package, Moira Lyons, a Democrat from Stamford who is speaker of the House, has referred the matter to the Finance Committee for a recommendation on whether the full Legislature should consider it. "The statute needs to be changed," Ms. Lyons said. "In the spring session the Legislature could determine whether this type of economic development is appropriate -- moving companies around the state. Only those coming in from another state get this much tax break."
Robert Genuario, a Republican state senator from Norwalk, does not think there will be a reversal in this case. "This was not a special program designed for Diageo," he said. "The tax credits existing in the state statute can be applied for by any company expanding in the state. The administration evaluates the proposal, and if it complies with the criteria, it offers the credits."
The credits do not kick in until the third year of a 10-year period, at rates of 10 percent of the projected total tax benefit for four years, and 20 percent for the remaining three years. If growth does not occur, there are "clawback" provisions, Mr. Carpp said. "They lose $4,000 for every job under 1,000 in any year, once the credits are in force. If employment drops to 500, we will revoke all credits in that year." 
There are other penalties that would come into play if Diageo does not meet certain levels of corporate tax payments or of income tax payments by its employees.
Real estate professionals have been reluctant to talk about the Diageo deal and the controversy surrounding it, largely because Building and Land Technologies is a client. Michael Gordon, director of business development for Stamford and White Plains at Cushman & Wakefield in Stamford, said: "As far as Fairfield County is concerned, it's nice that Diageo is staying in the county. The region won't suffer, but Stamford in the short term will.
"The state has to be as aggressive as possible, looking at it from the standpoint of keeping Diageo here. If it was convinced that Diageo would leave Connecticut, it was a wise thing for the state to prevent it."
Jeffrey Dunne, senior vice president of tristate investments for CB Richard Ellis, said: "The state has to take a hard look as to whether it is going to be providing these packages for in-state moves. Once you do it, you have to look at the next one and the one after that. Does it make economic sense? Are we setting a dangerous precedent?"
State Senator Andrew McDonald, a Democrat from Stamford, maintains that Diageo has no need for the tax credit package. "The entire cost of the project is $107.1 million," he said, "$60 million for site development and construction; $25.5 million for interior build-outs; $15.8 million for furniture and equipment; and $5.8 million for communications installations."
The developer, he said, "couldn't get financing without a firm commitment, and Diageo has committed to a 15-year lease with no contingencies. The lease is not dependent on the state tax breaks, so why are we giving away $40 million in a particularly difficult economic climate?" 
The two parties to the lease and Joe Garvey of Tampa, Fla., who was Diageo's broker, all declined to comment.
According to Mr. Carpp, additional benefits to Diageo on top of the $40 million state corporate tax package are a $1.8 million state sales tax exemption on a portion of construction materials and the extension of Norwalk's Enterprise Zone to the Diageo site. This status generates an 80 percent break on local property taxes. The company would pay 20 percent of what it normally would, the state will pay Norwalk 40 percent, and the city would absorb the remaining 40 percent.
Diageo, whose corporate ancestry can be traced to London in 1749, was formed in 1997 through the merger of Grand Met and Guinness. Its 126 beverage brands include Smirnoff, Seagrams and Johnnie Walker.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Work has begun on two new office buildings that are being developed at the Merritt on the River complex by Building and Land Technologies. Map of Connecticut highlighting Norwalk and surrounding areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); BEER & ALE (71%); BREWERIES (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%) Alcoholic Beverages; Relocation of Business; Tax Credits; Property Taxes; Relocation of Personnel; Alcoholic Beverages; Labor

COMPANY: DIAGEO PLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Building and Land Technologies; Diageo Plc; Diageo Plc

TICKER: DGE (PAR) (57%); DGE (LSE) (57%); DEO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%) SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES; 

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (50%) Eleanor Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Stamford (Conn); Norfolk (Conn); Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



691 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Newark; 
Developers Plan to Repopulate the Downtown Area

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
FOR more than 17 years, the old Hahne & Company department store has sat vacant on two blocks of prime real estate on Broad Street in downtown Newark, defying multiple attempts to convert it to another use. But lately, a new owner, the Cogswell Realty Group, has cleaned up the exterior and installed new windows, planning to convert it and the adjacent Griffith Building into 223 rental apartment units.
 Other developers also plan residential projects in the downtown area, including converting office buildings, building new mixed-use towers along the Passaic River shoreline and adding residential structures at the city's colleges and a new "urban village" of midrise and high-rise housing in an area that might or might not become the home of a new sports stadium. 
 In all, these projects could add more than 6,000 housing units in Newark's downtown, giving it the first sizable resident population in generations, said Arthur R. Stern, the president of Cogswell, which is based in New York.
The hope is that if people live in the city, rather than fleeing to the suburbs after work or school, it will encourage the development of restaurants and other retail services that are largely lacking now. 
"Newark has been a ghost town after 5 p.m.," said Sharpe James, the city's mayor. "To have a viable city, you need to have a viable downtown and we are trying to make downtown into a neighborhood." He said that while corporations had moved offices into downtown or expanded their presence in recent years, there had been no parallel growth in a full-time residents.
A big part of the reason, Mr. Stern said, is that there was no housing suitable for the people working in the area. "There is zero supply," he said. He said Cogswell was planning to spend $180 million to convert the Hahne-Griffith complex and a nearby office building at 1180 Raymond Boulevard to residences.
Demand for housing is coming not just from office workers. Educational officials say students at what were largely commuter colleges in the city are increasingly demanding to live on campus and in the process producing a more livable city. 
"With our housing and the projects on Broad Street, we could convert this into a 24-hour-a-day community," said Steven J. Diner, provost and chief operating officer of Rutgers University's Newark campus. He said it could be argued that Newark, although its roots were industrial, is now the most college-oriented town in the nation, with more than 40,000 undergraduate and graduate students in a city of 275,000.
IN addition to Rutgers-Newark, the cluster of educational institutions in what is known as the University Heights part of the city includes the New Jersey Institute of Technology, the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey and Essex County College. State plans to merge Rutgers University, the New Jersey Institute of Technology and the University of Medicine and Dentistry would produce a university offering a full range of undergraduate and graduate studies.
Rutgers-Newark is planning a new undergraduate dormitory that would house 600 students -- construction is expected to begin this summer -- and it is considering apartmentlike graduate housing that would fill a full block.
"We want retail all around on the first floor," Dr. Diner said of the graduate housing. "There is no reason why we could not have a Barnes & Noble or Borders bookstore there with a coffee bar." 
For nonstudents, the new developments could offer housing prices and rentals at less than half the cost in Manhattan and less than in parts of Jersey City and Hoboken.
And with the restoration of the PATH line to Lower Manhattan, Newark residents would be a station stop or two away from locations on the Hudson River. The main northeast line of Amtrak also runs through Newark and is about a 15-minute ride into Pennsylvania Station in Midtown Manhattan. 
"Newark has a wonderful transportation infrastructure left over from the 19th and early 20th centuries," Dr. Diner said. "And we have the Art Deco buildings that were not torn down and replaced because of Newark's condition."
Newark's condition is a polite way of describing a city whose industrial base dwindled or moved away, whose population declined from more than 400,000 in the 1960's to its current level and that was battered by bloody riots in 1967. Indeed, some of the educational institutions drawing all those students today were expanded or moved into the city after 1967 to provide an economic base.
This is a good strategy for economic development in a postindustrial era, said Peter Smirniotopoulos, an urban planner and faculty member at Johns Hopkins University. 
"In a knowledge-based economy, colleges and universities will be the factories of the 21st century,"he wrote in the November issue of Urban Land magazine. Rather than stay confined to their own campuses, he said, "colleges and universities should be better integrated into the cities and towns where they are located."
RUTGERS-NEWARK is a few blocks north of Broad Street but is separated from the New Jersey Performing Arts Center and a growing arts area to the south by a dead zone two blocks deep and six blocks wide that includes the Hahne and Griffith Buildings, a surface parking lot and old retail buildings that will probably be demolished.
If they are successfully turned into residences, it would join the two areas into a community, real estate officials said.
The fact that people were willing to go to work in the rehabilitated office buildings on Broad Street in the city's core suggested there was a pent-up demand for housing, said Larry Regan of Regan Development. His company is converting an office building that was completed in 1906 at 9 Clinton Street, just south of Broad Street, into 63 one- and two-bedroom apartment units that will rent for $1,000 to $1,600 a month.
"There has been no new housing or rehabilitation in 15 to 20 years, and we are convinced that there are a lot of people who want to live near where their jobs are," Mr. Regan said.
"The cultural amenities of the city could produce a live-work neighborhood, and that could lead to more restaurants and retail amenities on the commercial side." 
Matrix Development, which had largely been an industrial developer in the state's midsection, is planning a mixed-use development, including 400 to 500 housing units, stores, a hotel and possibly an office building along the Passaic River.
Richard F. X. Johnson, the company's senior vice president for development, said the residential and retailing components would be built first, with the units becoming available in the fall of 2005.
He said communities upstream were working to clean up the contaminated Passaic River, which was the area's main transportation link before the 19th century. A riverfront park is being built north of the Matrix development and water events like rowing competitions are planned in the area.
Mr. Johnson said the developers of the individual projects were working together to create an attractive community that would benefit them all.
"It is not enough for us to be successful," he said. "Arthur has to be successful and the others as well if this is going to work."
Not everything is rosy, of course. For one thing, the public schools are widely seen as struggling to provide an adequate education for the city's children. That situation will probably have a lot to do with the types of people who might be interested in living downtown, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers.
"The market will be for people in the pre- and post-children phases," he said. "The maturing baby boomers are 57 this year and that means lots of empty nesters. And the echo boomers are 20-somethings interested in an urban lifestyle."
In addition, he said, the efforts to prevent the sprawl of housing over the countryside in the state are beginning to work, redirecting development back into cities. "There is a basic shift on housing," he said. "This may be part of that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Hahne & Company department store and the Griffith Building behind it are to hold 223 apartments. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); MAYORS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); DENTISTRY (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); SUBURBS (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (54%) Housing; Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Cogswell Realty Group; Hahne's Department Stores

PERSON: John Holusha

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



692 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: The Index of Missing Economic Indicators; 
The Productivity Paradox

BYLINE:  By Stephen S. Roach; Stephen S. Roach is chief economist for Morgan Stanley.

 BODY:
Despite the economy's stunning 8.2 percent surge in the third quarter, the staying power of this economic recovery remains a matter of debate. But there is one aspect of the economy on which agreement is nearly unanimous: America's miraculous productivity. In the third quarter, productivity grew by 8.1 percent in the nonfarm business sector -- a figure likely to be revised upwards -- and it has grown at an average rate of 5.4 percent in the last two years.
 This surge is not simply a byproduct of the business cycle, even accounting for the usual uptick in productivity after a recession. In the first two years of the six most recent recoveries, productivity gains averaged only 3.5 percent. The favored explanation is that improved productivity is yet another benefit of the so-called New Economy. American business has reinvented itself. Manufacturing and services companies have figured out how to get more from less. By using information technologies, they can squeeze ever increasing value out of the average worker. 
 It's a great story, and if correct, it could lead to a new and lasting prosperity in the United States. But it may be wide of the mark.
First of all, productivity measurement is more art than science -- especially in America's vast services sector, which employs fully 80 percent of the nation's private work force, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. Productivity is calculated as the ratio of output per unit of work time. How do we measure value added in the amorphous services sector?
Very poorly, is the answer. The numerator of the productivity equation, output, is hopelessly vague for services. For many years, government statisticians have used worker compensation to approximate output in many service industries, which makes little or no intuitive sense. The denominator of the productivity equation -- units of work time -- is even more spurious. Government data on work schedules are woefully out of touch with reality -- especially in America's largest occupational group, the professional and managerial segments, which together account for 35 percent of the total work force.
For example, in financial services, the Labor Department tells us that the average workweek has been unchanged, at 35.5 hours, since 1988. That's patently absurd. Courtesy of a profusion of portable information appliances (laptops, cell phones, personal digital assistants, etc.), along with near ubiquitous connectivity (hard-wired and now increasingly wireless), most information workers can toil around the clock. The official data don't come close to capturing this cultural shift.
As a result, we are woefully underestimating the time actually spent on the job. It follows, therefore, that we are equally guilty of overestimating white-collar productivity. Productivity is not about working longer. It's about getting more value from each unit of work time. The official productivity numbers are, in effect, mistaking work time for leisure time.
This is not a sustainable outcome -- for the American worker or the American economy. To the extent productivity miracles are driven more by perspiration than by inspiration, there are limits to gains in efficiency based on sheer physical effort.
The same is true for corporate America, where increased productivity is now showing up on the bottom line in the form of increased profits. When better earnings stem from cost cutting (and the jobless recovery that engenders), there are limits to future improvements in productivity. Strategies that rely primarily on cost cutting will lead eventually to "hollow" companies -- businesses that have been stripped bare of once valuable labor. That's hardly the way to sustained prosperity.
Many economists say that strong productivity growth goes hand in hand with a jobless recovery. Nothing could be further from the truth. In the 1960's, both productivity and employment surged at an annual rate of close to 3 percent. In the latter half of the 1990's, accelerating productivity also coincided with rapid job creation.
In fact, there is no precedent for sustained productivity enhancement through downsizing. That would result in an increasingly barren economy that will ultimately lose market share in an ever-expanding world.
That underscores another aspect of America's recent productivity miracle: the growing use of overseas labor. While this may increase the profits of American business -- help-desk employees or customer-service representatives in India earn a fraction of what their counterparts in the United States do -- the American worker does not directly share the benefits. The result is a clash between the owners of capital and the providers of labor -- a clash that has resulted in heightened trade frictions and growing protectionist risks. There's nothing sustainable about this plan for productivity enhancement, either.
In the end, America's productivity revival may be nothing more than a transition from one way of doing business to another -- a change in operating systems, as it were. Aided by the stock market bubble and the Y2K frenzy, corporate America led the world in spending on new information technology and telecommunications in the latter half of the 1990's.
This resulted in an increase of the portion of gross domestic product that went to capital spending. With the share of capital going up, it follows that the share of labor went down. Thus national output was produced with less labor in relative terms -- resulting in a windfall of higher productivity. Once the migration from the old technology to the new starts to peak, this transitional productivity dividend can then be expected to wane.
No one wants to see that. For all their wishful thinking, believers in the productivity miracle are right about one critical point: productivity is the key to prosperity.
Have we finally found the key? It's doubtful. Productivity growth is sustainable when driven by creativity, risk-taking, innovation and, yes, new technology. It is fleeting when it is driven simply by downsizing and longer hours. With cost cutting still the credo and workers starting to reach physical limits, America's so-called productivity renaissance may be over before Americans even have a chance to enjoy it.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Joshua Gorchov) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); WORK WEEK (66%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Labor; Productivity; Computers and the Internet; Working Hours

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

PERSON: Stephen S Roach

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



693 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: The Index of Missing Economic Indicators; 
The Unemployment Myth

BYLINE:  By Austan Goolsbee; Austan Goolsbee is professor of economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
The government's announcement on Tuesday that the economy grew even faster than expected makes the current "jobless recovery" even more puzzling. To give some perspective, unemployment normally falls significantly in such economic boom times. The last time growth was this good, in 1983, unemployment fell 2.5 percentage points and another full percentage point the next year. That's what happens in a typical recovery. So why not this time? Because we have more to recover from than we've been told.
 The reality is that we didn't have a mild recession. Jobs-wise, we had a deep one. 
 The government reported that annual unemployment during this recession peaked at only around 6 percent, compared with more than 7 percent in 1992 and more than 9 percent in 1982. But the unemployment rate has been low only because government programs, especially Social Security disability, have effectively been buying people off the unemployment rolls and reclassifying them as "not in the labor force."
In other words, the government has cooked the books. It has been a more subtle manipulation than the one during the Reagan administration, when people serving in the military were reclassified from "not in the labor force" to "employed" in order to reduce the unemployment rate. Nonetheless, the impact has been the same.
Research by the economists David Autor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Mark Duggan at the University of Maryland shows that once Congress began loosening the standards to qualify for disability payments in the late 1980's and early 1990's, people who would normally be counted as unemployed started moving in record numbers into the disability system -- a kind of invisible unemployment. Almost all of the increase came from hard-to-verify disabilities like back pain and mental disorders. As the rolls swelled, the meaning of the official unemployment rate changed as millions of people were left out. 
By the end of the 1990's boom, this invisible unemployment seemed to have stabilized. With the arrival of this recession, it has exploded. From 1999 to 2003, applications for disability payments rose more than 50 percent and the number of people enrolled has grown by one million. Therefore, if you correctly accounted for all of these people, the peak unemployment rate in this recession would have probably pushed 8 percent. 
The point is not whether every person on disability deserves payments. The point is that in previous recessions these people would have been called unemployed. They would have filed for unemployment insurance. They would have shown up in the statistics. They would have helped create a more accurate picture of national unemployment, a crucial barometer we use to measure the performance of the economy, the likelihood of inflation and the state of the job market.
Unfortunately, underreporting unemployment has served the interests of both political parties. Democrats were able to claim unemployment fell in the 1990's to the lowest level in 40 years, happy to ignore the invisible unemployed. Republicans have eagerly embraced the view that the recession of 2001 was the mildest on record. 
The situation has grown so dire, though, that we can't even tell whether the job market is recovering. The time has come to correct the official unemployment statistics to account for those left out. The government agencies that can give us a more detailed and accurate picture of the nation's employment situation -- the Census, the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Bureau of Economic Analysis -- need additional funds and resources from Congress to do their jobs. 
Otherwise, announcements about a rebounding economy will continue to show only half the picture. Take the revised numbers released by the Commerce Department on Tuesday. They showed that output in the third quarter grew at a rate of 8.2 percent, an extraordinary pace, and productivity grew even faster. Almost no one noted, though, that Social Security also announced the latest data on disability applications. Almost 200,000 people applied in October -- up 20 percent from the previous month -- tying the highest level ever. Despite the blistering growth of the economy, the invisible unemployment problem continues.
We didn't have a mild recession and a jobless recovery. We covered up a deep recession and will need a sizable bit of recovery just to get us back to the point the unemployment rate suggested we already were. As the Red Queen said to Alice in "Through the Looking Glass": "Here, you see, it takes all the running you can do to keep in the same place. If you want to get somewhere else, you must run at least twice as fast as that!" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); STATISTICS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Labor; United States Economy; Social Security (US); Handicapped; Recession and Depression; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

PERSON: Austan (Prof) Goolsbee

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



694 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Future Shock; 
A $400 Billion Purchase, All on Credit

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IN a perfectly equitable world, would the government have passed legislation that would give older Americans a prescription drug care plan that will cost $400 billion over 10 years? 
 To some economists, the prescription-drug benefit approved by Congress last Tuesday looks like Robin Hood in reverse. After all, there are millions of American workers who don't have any health insurance at all, yet for now, at least, the government has chosen to expand the Medicare program for older Americans. 
 But although some economists on the left and right might wring their hands, younger workers don't seem to be complaining. According to polls, members of the post-boomer generation are actually more enthusiastic than their elders about this new legislation. Their feeling is partly due to a desire to see their parents and grandparents save money on drugs, which ultimately redounds to their own benefit. And a lot of these younger adults -- like members of Congress who voted for the bill -- probably haven't quite focused on who will pay for the program or how. 
The Republican champions of the drug plan say it will help hold down health-care costs by letting private companies compete with Medicare and introducing some means-testing, but critics on both the left and right warn that costs could rise faster than projected. For now, until a tax or some other revenue source is found, all the benefits will be financed by borrowing. It's not that the poor elderly don't need help paying for drugs. The question among economists is who should be paying.
"Given the demographics, paying the elderly their Social Security and medical benefits will effectively bankrupt the next generation and gravely damage the economy," said Laurence J. Kotlikoff, the chairman of the economics department at Boston University. "The elderly need insurance against drug costs just as they need insurance against other medical costs. But the elderly as a group should be paying the costs of this insurance, not leaving the bill to the next generation."
The rate of poverty used to be higher than average among the elderly, but over the past four decades it has been reduced by two-thirds and is now lower than the national average. Meanwhile, the number of younger adults without health coverage has been increasing recently, especially among Latinos. Last year, according to the Census Bureau, the number of uninsured Americans rose by six percent, reaching nearly 44 million. 
Yet younger workers, far from begrudging the elderly universal insurance, have repeatedly told pollsters that they favor adding new drug benefits to Medicare.
In the University of Pennsylvania's National Annenberg Election Survey taken shortly before Congress' vote on the drug plan, adults under 50 favored the legislation by 43 percent to 38 percent. In contrast, the respondents between 50 and 64 opposed the legislation, 49 percent to 39 percent, and among those over 65 the margin of opposition was wider still, 49 percent to 33 percent. The national telephone survey, conducted among 860 adults between November 19 and 23, has a margin of error of 3 percent.
The opposition from the older Americans is due in large part to the concern, especially prevalent among those over 65, that Medicare could be jeopardized by the new competition from private companies. That problem looms less large to younger workers because they're accustomed to private health plans -- and to less than ideal insurance. In polls comparing retirees on Medicare with workers on private insurance plans, the retirees have consistently expressed more satisfaction with their health insurance.
So why don't the young workers already struggling to pay for their own adequate health care worry about the cost of new benefits for the elderly? 
"People always tend to believe that the government can find a pile of money somewhere to pay for new benefits," said Robert Blendon of the Harvard School of Public Health, an expert on public opinion about health issues. "The issue of cost would have traction with young voters only if they were proposing to finance the prescription-drug benefit by raising the payroll tax, but that proposal is not on the the table right now."
The idea of providing prescription drug benefits to lower-income Medicare recipients appeals to a range of economists, from Martin S. Feldstein, a chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under Ronald Reagan, to more liberal colleagues like Uwe E. Reinhardt of Princeton University. But despite the means-testing in the new bills, many economists fault it (and the rest of the Medicare system) for providing too much help to the affluent.
"There is, to be sure, something unfair about a gas station attendant paying payroll taxes to support well-to-do elderly people," Dr. Reinhardt said. But it is not necessarily unfair, he added, for tomorrow's workers to provide higher benefits for retirees, since the country's gross domestic product will also be higher thanks to the legacy of those retired workers.
"Younger generations in the future will have benefited from productivity gains that are based in large part on knowledge they did not pay for," Dr. Reinhardt said. "They will have a much larger G.D.P. 20 years hence out of which to finance health care for the elderly."
Some economists, though, fear that the costs of supporting the elderly will prove too much for future workers. "Young people will not be willing or able to stand the tax load," said Victor Fuchs, an emeritus professor of economics at Stanford and, at 79, a Medicare beneficiary. "Baby boomers will feel betrayed because they were promised these benefits and they supported the previous generation. The intergenerational tensions could really get horrendous."
For now, though, there's no sign of a rebellion, and little political risk. "Some young adults worry about the costs of these programs and fear there'll be no money left for them, but they don't vote on the basis of those issues," said Dr. Blendon of Harvard. "The top issues for the young are jobs and schooling. Older voters are the ones who care about Medicare, and that's why politicians pay attention to them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new drug bill will help the elderly pay for prescriptions, but it's unclear who will pay for the plan. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGING (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); GRANDPARENTS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); POVERTY RATES (61%); CENSUS (50%) Medicine and Health; Public Opinion; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicare; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Aged; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (58%) John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



695 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOWER EAST SIDE; 
A Plan for Five Vacant Lots Gets Plenty of Vacant Stares

BYLINE:  By STEVE KURUTZ

 BODY:
It has taken the city more than 35 years to develop five city-owned plots, acquired as part of a 1965 urban renewal plan, near Delancey and Grand Streets. But now that Lower East Side residents have heard what's planned for the area, some wouldn't mind delaying it for another 35 years. 
 The five sites were originally part of the Seward Park Urban Renewal Area, a federal program in which several tenements were torn down to make way for low-income housing. Some lots were developed, but five remained vacant. 
 Earlier this month, however, officials from the Housing Preservation Department and the Economic Development Corporation met with community members to unveil a plan to develop the sites. Under the plan -- part of Mayor Bloomberg's pledge to provide affordable housing -- 300 low-income apartments and 100 middle-income apartments would be built on three of the sites. The other two would be for commercial use.
 Many neighborhood residents felt blindsided. 
 "This concerns something that's in our front yard, but we were never informed," said Steve Danenberg, president of Seward Park Housing Corporation, a co-op of roughly 5,000 residents, many of whom oppose the plan. "We found out through a newspaper," he added, referring to an article published in The Villager.
 Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the Economic Development Corporation, said the plan was in its early stages and was meant to stimulate discussion. 
 Even so, the issue has divided the community. Those against the proposal argue that the Lower East Side already has a disproportionate amount of public housing. They contend that to build more units squanders undeveloped land in a blossoming community. 
 "We're considered the hot new neighborhood of Manhattan," said Benjamin Mittman, a third-generation Lower East Sider. "It's a dream come true. This site should be dedicated 100 percent to commercialization to enhance the community. The current plan is a step backward." 
 Mr. Danenberg said he does not oppose low-income housing, in general, but is against it in this case. "I'm in favor of a plan that proposes economic development," he said, "which would bring jobs to the community." 
 Harriet Cohen, co-chairwoman of the Seward Park Area Redevelopment Coalition, an organization that has lobbied to build affordable housing, disagrees. "Anything that's being built now is way beyond the reach of people living in the community," she said. "We've always said mixed income, but there should be an emphasis on low, because that's the housing that we've lost." STEVE KURUTZ

GRAPHIC: Photo: A housing proposal was a hot itemat a community board meeting earlier this month. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%) Housing

ORGANIZATION: Housing Preservation and Development Department (NYC); Economic Development Corp (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%) Steve Kurutz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; Lower East Side (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



696 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: City's Bad Luck Takes Another Spin 

BYLINE:  By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: GARY, Ind., Nov. 26 

 BODY:
This city, with its sputtering smokestacks that line Lake Michigan and its shuttered, boarded, barred downtown, has tried everything to save itself -- a theme park, a beauty pageant, murals, baseball, basketball, gambling.
 Then this summer, the city's most famous son came home for the first time in forever, stopping by his childhood house, which was not that much bigger than the black limousine he rode up in. 
 He had an idea to help his struggling hometown build a performing arts center, where actors, dancers and musicians would draw paying crowds and where students would perfect their arts -- a Juilliard, he told city officials, in Indiana. And when the city's lawyer asked what he had in mind, a skyscraping building or a broad, sprawling campus, he gave the best answer -- both.
Perhaps this, at last, could help save downtown Gary: The Michael J. Jackson Performing Arts Center. 
Just five months later, though, the plans appear murky. Representatives for the city and for Mr. Jackson say they remain fully committed to the notion of a center, but people who live here say they know that Mr. Jackson may be too busy fending off criminal charges to worry about resuscitating Gary.
Truth is, even before Mr. Jackson's legal troubles, many here did not really expect that the center would ever be built. In Gary, where so many plans have come along, it is hard to stake much on another revival plan. 
"Oh sure, it'd be nice," said Christine Equihua, who has spent all of her 40 years in this city and who says she loves it dearly, despite the crime and unemployment, for the reason other people adore other places -- it is where she is from. 
"A performance center would be real nice," Ms. Equihua went on. "But not in Gary. It won't happen in Gary. Stuff like that never does."
Along Broadway, the wide, main thoroughfare through downtown, artists have painted murals on the boards that cover abandoned storefronts -- just one in the long list of ways Gary has tried to spruce up its sagging image. In paint, Gary can be what it wishes it were.
Across the front of a former furniture store is a scene that might have come from a gleaming showroom: a couch, a stool, a table with a chess game. The boards on an old jewelry shop show long jewel cases and a giant diamond ring. And painted on the shuttered Palace Theater is a scene from some elegant memory: a ticket seller in a bow tie and a crowd of customers, some in slinky gowns, milling in a lobby.
Across the street on a recent afternoon, Clarence Ford surveyed the place and thought back four decades, when he watched cowboy movies and cartoons at the Palace and bought ice cream from vendors who wandered the plush rows.
"People just didn't know how to live together, though," Mr. Ford said. Created as a steel mill city in 1906, Gary fell on hard times in the 1960's. Richard G. Hatcher, one of the nation's first black mayors of a major city, won election and white flight swept Gary. The mill jobs shrunk. 
"To me, this isn't really a downtown anymore at all," Mr. Ford said. "For a downtown, you have to have stores."
If stores would not come, city leaders lately have tried new measures to bring Gary back: casino gambling, a Continental Basketball Association team called the Steelheads, and a minor league baseball team called the RailCats, who played last spring in a new $45 million stadium downtown, United States Steel Yard.
Though some doubters have scoffed at the price of the stadium, claiming that the cash might have been better spent on more police protection, drug abuse treatment or job-training programs, Mayor Scott L. King said the baseball team lured 140,000 people to Gary last season, and that the basketball team would likely attract 100,000 this winter.
"It's a difficult economic puzzle, but we're starting to see some positive results," Mayor King said. "It used to be that people would laugh at you -- or worse -- if you said you were going to downtown Gary on a Friday night."
The city also brought the Miss USA pageant here, for a time anyway. Though a huge banner for the 2002 pageant is still on the side of a boarded-up Sheraton Hotel, down the street from City Hall, the pageant is gone. Gary passed on being host for another year after Mayor King decided that the bill was too high.
Still, Mayor King said, the attention the city received in the two pageant years had given Gary, which has long struggled with a high homicide rate, a more positive image. 
"People were hearing the name Gary without the phrase 'ax murderer' behind it," he said.
Mayor King said he had been pondering the notion of a performing arts center since taking office, but the notion was jump-started by Mr. Jackson's decision to put his name, energy and fund-raising abilities behind it.
In June, Mr. Jackson returned to Gary for the first time in decades. He had lived here until he was 11. As the Jackson 5 took off, the family left the steel city.
Mr. Jackson has a complicated relationship with his hometown. He is a legend, whose image is even on the murals on the boarded-up stores downtown. But he has angered some by seeming to confirm all the cruel things outsiders say about the place. "A lot of people say he got big and turned his back on Gary," said Donte Whittington, who lives here.
All seemed forgiven, though, when he returned in June and rode to City Hall, where Mayor King presented him with a key to the city and they announced their mutual plans for downtown. Though a memorandum of understanding for the Michael J. Jackson Performing Arts Center was signed, plans were still in an early phase. There was no price tag, no opening date.
The idea, said Jewell Harris Jr., a lawyer from Gary who has represented the city in the meetings since the June announcement, was that the city would supply the land and Mr. Jackson would help raise the money, through his name and celebrity connections. It was unclear whether Mr. Jackson, whose financial situation is shaky, might also supply some money of his own.
"He was so excited about this project," said Mr. Harris, who met with Mr. Jackson four months ago in Miami as the two parties began preparing to establish a foundation to oversee the plans. "He wanted the school part of it to rival any school in the country. I knew that he was serious when he said he even would want to come teach a class from time to time."
Last week, a spokesman for Mr. Jackson said that he was now concerned with defending himself against accusations that he molested a 12-year-old boy, but that there was no reason to suspect that the Gary project would not proceed, once "other things kind of get taken care of."
"He is committed to Gary, and he is committed to the performing arts center," the spokesman, Stuart Backerman, said. "His name and his involvement would be the basis for raising the funds."
City leaders, meanwhile, said they hoped Mr. Jackson would stick with the project, but that its future did not depend on him alone. "This idea has been a vision for the city even before Michael Jackson," said LaLosa Burns, the spokeswoman for Mayor King, "and it will be something that the city will continue to pursue."
Perhaps, but not everyone believes that this grand vision will ever actually be realized. 
Janine P. Bray, 51, lives in a small, neat home with an American flag out front, just across the way from the simple one-story house where Mr. Jackson once lived.
The notion of a big arts center is sweet, Ms. Bray said, but she smiles politely and laughs a bit when asked whether she believes it will happen. "No, no, he's spending too much for his legal protection to worry about us so much," she said.
Ms. Bray has seen her share of plans for Gary come and go.
In the mid-1990's, there was another mayor and another idea: a $2 billion rock 'n' roll amusement park with a Jackson family museum, a hotel, stores and Mr. Jackson's modest childhood home at the center of it all. When a new administration came into power, though, a dispute emerged over the plans, and the notion was left behind.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary, Ind., has temporarily turned to imagination to help spruce up its sagging downtown. Artists have painted murals on the boards that cover empty stores to depict what the stores once sold. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CITIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); BASEBALL (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); CHILD ABUSE (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); FILM (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); TICKET SALES (71%); LAWYERS (71%); DANCERS (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); RETAILERS (66%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); FINE JEWELRY (63%); FURNITURE STORES (60%); THEATER (56%) Culture; Sex Crimes; Child Abuse and Neglect

PERSON: Monica Davey; Michael Jackson; Scott L (Mayor) King

GEOGRAPHIC: GARY, IN, USA (95%) INDIANA, USA (95%); LAKE MICHIGAN (88%) UNITED STATES (95%) Gary (Ind)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



697 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: A West Texas Hamlet Adjusts to Being Split by Redistricting 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: SONORA, Tex., Nov. 29 

 BODY:
To folks in this hamlet on the western edge of Texas Hill Country, redistricting seemed an issue for cities like Houston, Dallas or San Antonio.
 That was until state lawmakers divided Sutton County between two United States congressmen, splitting a place where natural gas fuels the economy and where hunters fill the main drag each autumn. 
 "It's an absolute absurdity," said John Tedford, the Republican Party chairman for the county. "With just 3,000 people here, it's just absurd." 
The Texas Legislature approved a Congressional redistricting plan in October that split many Texas counties. The plan must still clear the federal Justice Department and court challenges.
A critical deadline looms: the state's March 9 primary election.
Republicans redrew Congressional lines to put more members of their own party in Congress, including one boundary down the middle of Sonora, Sutton County's seat.
Henry Bonilla, a Republican, represented the 1,200 residents in the northeast half of the county for 11 years. They are now in a newly drawn district, probably anchored in Midland, 180 miles away. The other half of the county remains in Mr. Bonilla's district.
"It's always been my contention that if it ain't broke, don't fix it," said Mallie Turner, a retired natural gas well operator.
Under the new map, Mr. Turner and his wife move from Mr. Bonilla's district.
"I don't know who will represent us," Mr. Turner said. "He may be good as gold, but I'm more than pleased with Henry Bonilla to represent us and this district." 
Many residents praise Mr. Bonilla's representation of Sonora's ranching and natural gas industries.
"A lot of ranchers in Sonora really liked him," said John Creek, a former high school football coach and government teacher, as he prepared his father's ranch for the first day of deer hunting season. "He's done a lot for agriculture and for our county." 
Like many in Sonora, Mr. Turner and Mr. Creek describe themselves as independent, but say they tend to vote mostly Republican.
Others in Sonora are not concerned with the impending Congressional district changes.
"As long as there's a roof over their head and three square meals on the table, they're not going to gripe," Mr. Creek said. "Most people are worried about taking their kids to soccer practice. They're not worried too much about this."
The Sutton County split was a last-minute move during a series of marathon map-drawing sessions as Republicans sought a compromise over the shape of a West Texas district.
State Senator Todd Staples, a lead Republican map-drawer, said dividing Sonora was an unavoidable consequence of the requirement that the Congressional district contain exactly 651,619 residents, with no deviation. It is federally required that districts be evenly divided according to census figures.
"Realistically, it could have been one of a hundred different towns where the boundary eventually stopped," Mr. Staples said. "In this instance, it just happened to be in Sutton County."
Mr. Staples said the split was probably drawn "in the wee hours of the morning, as we analyzed the map." He said Sutton County was not a political target.
Sutton County must pay to bring all four precincts in line with the new districts before the March primary, a job that will cost the county an estimated $1,500, the county clerk, Veronica Hernandez, said.
Sutton and other counties with new boundaries must scramble to meet an array of election filing and ballot deadlines. Counties need time to print ballots, mail new voter registration cards and alert voters of new polling places.
"Once you add in everything, we're looking at at least $5,000," said Judge Carla Garner, a Sutton County Democrat. "That's a considerable amount we didn't budget for."
The county will probably use money earmarked for a local improvement project, Judge Garner said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REDISTRICTING (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); SPORT HUNTING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); SOCCER (62%) Elections; Gerrymandering; Finances; Reapportionment

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%) House of Representatives (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Texas; Sutton County (Tex); Sonora (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



698 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 3185 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
When Grandparents Step Into the Child Care Gap, Money Can Be Scarce

BYLINE:  By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
Vaughn Bennett, 17, practices his lyrical poetry with a friend on the steps of his grandmother's three-bedroom duplex apartment in Brooklyn. They aspire to be like the many rap artists whose skills have lifted them from poor neighborhoods to luxury lifestyles.
 But Vaughn's dreams go much deeper. He hopes to one day ease the burdens of his grandmother and guardian, Esther Bennett. 
 Perhaps it is just the generation gap, but to Ms. Bennett, 77, the promises of rap seem like big talk. 
"If I push one way, he'll go the other," she said, sitting at her dining room table.
Yet on the subject of her grandson, Ms. Bennett softens quickly.
"He's been a good kid," she said, one with top grades and a chance for a scholarship to the City University of New York. "The toughest time -- right now, since he turned 17. It is a difficult age."
The fine lines in her face show her worry. It was about the same age, Ms. Bennett recalls, that his mother's problems began.
Ms. Bennett said drugs took hold of her daughter while she was in her teens and led her to suffer a nervous breakdown in her 20's. She was hospitalized and medicated for manic depression.
In her 30's, still hanging around a careless crowd, she became pregnant with Vaughn, Ms. Bennett said.
Because her daughter was living at home, the responsibility for Vaughn fell on Ms. Bennett's shoulders. He might have wound up in foster care, she said, but to her that would have been out of the question. So, when Vaughn was 4, she went to court for uncontested legal custody.
Now he is one of about 300,000 children living in grandparent-headed households in New York State, according to the 2000 census. Nationally, that figure is 4.5 million, a 30 percent increase from 1990 to 2000. In the state, 143,014 grandparents serve as primary caregivers for children under 18, and there are 2.4 million such grandparents nationally.
Across the country, growing numbers of older adults who probably thought they had left such responsibilities behind are once more being called upon to guide youngsters through the milestones of childhood, from late-night feedings and diaper changes to puberty and first dates. They are sheltering the children, getting them to school and medical appointments, and trying to keep them out of trouble. They are filling the child-care gap as the children's own parents wrestle with problems like substance abuse, mental illness, jail time, money woes, domestic violence and divorce.
It is a challenge for some grandparents more than others. Census Bureau figures show that in 1999, 19 percent of the grandparents serving as primary caregivers to their grandchildren were living in poverty. For these grandparents in particular, like Ms. Bennett, the pitfalls are many. For them, programs like The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund can offer critical support and relief.
In some respects, Ms. Bennett was fortunate in her second go-round as a parent. Her daughter was willing to give up custody, which is often not the case. Legal battles between grandparents and their troubled children can get complicated, said Amy Goyer, coordinator for AARP's grandparent information center. Unless grandparents are recognized as primary caregivers by the states where they live, they often cannot register children for school or get medical care or government assistance.
Ms. Bennett has had an easy time in that sense, but she is still under financial strain. She has had to keep working at a time when most people her age have retired.
A factory where she was a seamstress for 33 years went out of business, she said. "Now I work at a bus company. I am a matron. I want to quit, but my finances are not allowing me."
Without that pay to augment the $771 she receives from Social Security each month, she would never be able to afford her $1,000 rent and other necessities.
In her case, finances have been complicated by medical realities. She has dealt with the pain of watching her husband die of cancer and her mother and aunt succumb to Alzheimer's disease. What is more, she recently underwent treatment for breast cancer.
Her own health concerns compounded her problems. For eight months, chemotherapy and radiation treatments kept her out of work and without a paycheck.
With little savings, Ms. Bennett could have sunk into an economic and emotional morass of the sort that afflicts so many grandparents thrust back into guardianship roles. 
Instead, she sought help from her family and through the Brooklyn Family Care Center, a beneficiary of the Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens, one of seven charities supported by the Neediest Cases.
Grisel Petre, a social worker, drew on funds from the Federal Emergency Management Agency for one month's rent, and tapped the Neediest Cases Fund to cover a $500 co-payment for cancer treatment.
Ms. Petre also recognized that Ms. Bennett needed more information about resources for parents and suggested that she join a Catholic Charities support group for grandparents, Grandmothers As Mothers Again, also known as GAMA. 
The group's meetings are a kind of intergenerational respite -- while grandparents share their experiences and learn about their rights, grandchildren can take advantage of the community center. The children can play games, take part in activities and practice skills, like how to use computers. 
Ms. Petre provided Ms. Bennett with literature on the group, and Ms. Bennett says she hopes to attend meetings after her health improves. 
Ms. Bennett is also learning not to be too hard on herself over her family's situation. She knows she has tried her best and sacrificed everything for her family.
Still, the sacrifices never seem to end.
"I am tired," she said. "I keep thinking I am too old for this. I have had a tough life. But here I am. I'm still surviving."

Turning for Help
Cases like Ms. Bennett's are familiar to all the charities supported by the Neediest Cases. Each agency's social workers have access to money from the fund to respond to a medical crisis, buy desperately needed furniture or pay for clothing, food and rent. 
With the help of groups like GAMA, grandparents learn from one another how to become advocates for their grandchildren and themselves. 
"It is a relief for grandparents to be with other people who are going through the same problems," said Deitrich Barber, program coordinator of GAMA at the Brooklyn Catholic Charities' Dr. White Community Center. 
Last month, Ms. Barber and her GAMA group were a part of the first grandparent rally in Washington for improved legislation to support kinship care. About 850,000 people attended, according to AARP. The rally helped grandparents make strides toward getting bills passed that would provide assistance subsidies, housing and respite-care programs, said Ms. Goyer of AARP.
A grandparents program at Public School 5 in Washington Heights, Abuelas en Accion, is supported by the Children's Aid Society, another Neediest Cases charity. P.S. 5 provides comprehensive in-house health and social services for the entire family. As a result, social workers meet weekly with grandparents to help address their own needs and their grandchildren's. Social workers also work in association with the children's teachers at the school. "This is a key aspect of this program," said Richard Negron, director of community schools for the Children's Aid Society. "It allows social workers to intervene at different points when necessary." 
Many families in Washington Heights provide a different spin on the challenges of grandparent-headed households. In a community with such a large, ethnically diverse immigrant population, some grandparents serve as principal caretakers of children whose parents remain in their native country.
"There are added stresses for any grandparent coming from another country -- there is the language barrier, and cultural differences, and bureaucracies," Ms. Goyer said.

An Immigrant Story
Many grandparents are uninformed, but immigrant grandparents may have it worse. They also feel more isolated, Ms. Goyer said, which makes community centers even more important for them.
This was the case with Margarita Bordyug, 63, of Brooklyn, whose limited English and resources hindered her quest to find her grandchildren after her daughter and son-in-law died in Ukraine.
It took help from community agencies -- among them the Edith and Carl Marks Jewish Community House, a beneficiary of UJA-Federation of New York -- to bring about a reunion. The UJA-Federation of New York is another charity supported by the Neediest Cases.
The last time Ms. Bordyug saw her daughter, Alla Kolesnichenko, and Alla's husband, Yevgeniy Kolesnichenko, was in Kiev a decade ago. Back then, they had all been given refugee status to come to the United States. But things were not that simple. 
Ms. Bordyug said: "My daughter and her husband were sick. They had cancer." It was a result, she said, of their assistance in the cleanup of Chernobyl. 
Still, Ms. Bordyug was certain that the couple and their children, Dmitriy, now 17, and Maria, now 13, would soon follow her to America.
She was mistaken. And before long, unanswered phone calls to Ukraine offered an ominous clue to the couple's fate. She learned from her former husband, who was still living in Russia, that Alla and her husband had died from their cancers. It was the spring of 1996; Ms. Bordyug's daughter was only 26 years old. 
At that point, grief set in for Ms. Bordyug. So did panic. Where were her grandchildren? 
Tirelessly, she worked with her ex-husband in Russia, and her son, who had accompanied her from Ukraine, until they found the children in a dilapidated orphanage. 
To get them to America, they turned to the Marks center. There, Lyubov Mikityansky, associate director of the immigrant services department, and Svetlana Ismailov, a social worker, referred her to a lawyer at the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society. The lawyer, Slava Osterostrov, meticulously went over each document and told Ms. Bordyug which government offices to go to. Ms. Bordyug's daughter-in-law, who speaks English, often accompanied her to translate. 
When the children arrived at Kennedy International Airport on Sept. 15, 1996, "it was everything to me," said Ms. Bordyug, speaking mainly through a translator. "Dmitriy said, 'Grandmother, when I saw you I didn't think my heart could take it.' "
Then only 10 years old, he put out his small hand, which held a bagel and sausage he had gotten on the plane. It was all he could muster for a present.
As for being a parent the second time around, Ms. Bordyug says some things never change. "Children are children," she said.
But other things do change, sometimes drastically. The difference this time, she says, is in her own capabilities. "When I was young I was working," she said. "Now I can't. If I could, we would be in a totally different situation."
Over the years, her health has deteriorated. She has lupus, heart disease, asthma, diabetes, high blood pressure and emphysema.
She frets over how long she will live, and her capacity to provide for two growing children.
Today, she and Maria, known as Masha, share the bedroom, while Dmitriy sleeps in the living room on a broken couch. They cannot afford much more on the $1,229 they receive each month through a $639 Social Security check, $465 in public assistance for the children and $125 in food stamps. They struggle just to pay their $826 in rent and cover their other living expenses. 
Ms. Bordyug's son, who works for a moving company, contributes when he can, but on his wage he barely has enough money for his wife and their own 19-year-old son. Dmitriy sometimes gets his cousin's hand-me-downs. 
Buying clothes, especially for the winter, puts added strain on the family. So a recent phone call from Ms. Mikityansky of the Marks center was a welcome surprise. 
"She never asks for anything," Ms. Mikityansky said of Ms. Bordyug. "If I don't ask, she would never tell me." In the past, the center has helped send the grandchildren to summer camp and provide the family with furniture and food. This time, Ms. Mikityansky was able to offer $400 from the Neediest Cases for clothing. 
"The next thing we are working on is a computer for the children," Ms. Mikityansky said. "Without it, they are behind the other kids in school."
Ms. Bordyug says the struggle to cover the basics for her grandchildren is frustrating. She wants them to go to college, but has no means to send them. 
Ms. Bordyug has only one possession from Ukraine that has even sentimental value, a picture of her daughter and son-in-law. "Masha is like looking into a mirror," said Ms. Bordyug, pointing to the image of Alla, a lovely, round-faced blond woman, standing beside her husband as a newlywed. Alla was 19 then.
Ms. Bordyug began to cry. It is up to her, she knows, to give her grandchildren the future her daughter never had.

Rescue by Trailer
The same love and devotion for grandchildren is the reason Mary Caryl Fairbank, 66, uprooted her life.
In 1994, Ms. Fairbank's daughter, Susan, now 41, was found to have Hodgkin's disease. Since then, she has been in and out of hospitals. 
And when the ambulance comes, her children know it is time to head to their grandmother's two-bedroom trailer home, on a lot close to where they live in Wingdale, N.Y. There, Kathryn Donahoe, 13, Garry Mayes III, 9, and Rachel Mayes, 4, find space to sleep, joining their brother Michael Mayes, 2, who lives there full-time. 
Rachel knows her visit means Mommy is sick again. Garry and Michael do not really understand, their grandmother says, but Kathryn, known as Katy, is aware of her mother's health problems. 
"It is just good to know that we have somebody to go to and rely on," Katy said.
That somebody, Ms. Fairbank, moved to Wingdale, in Dutchess County, from Pelham, in Westchester, after one too many emergency phone calls.
"It just became too much -- driving an hour and a half," Ms. Fairbank said. 
She quit her job as a receptionist, sold her late husband's mutual funds -- her only savings -- and bought a secondhand trailer home for $25,000 in 1997. 
The trailer has been outfitted for children. The kitchen is fenced off to prevent tiny hands, like those of little Michael, from getting burned or cut. 
To bring in some money, Ms. Fairbank also cares for other children who live nearby, but her empathy for those under financial strain makes it hard for her to charge more than $10 a day. Young families just starting out cannot afford more, she said.
In the beginning, her new life was an adjustment. 
Her first winter in Wingdale, Ms. Fairbank's heater broke down. The chill quickly filled her trailer home. She bundled Rachel and Michael, who were staying with her, in snowsuits. 
When the plumber arrived to see if the heater could be repaired, she prayed. She knew she could not afford a new one. 
He gave her bad news candy-coated with helpful advice. The heater was shot, but he knew of an agency that might help her. That afternoon she called Community Action, nearby in Dover, N.Y. 
The following morning a man came to her home and installed a new heater. It was such a fast exchange, she says, she was not sure what to make of it.
"I clutched Garry on my lap, afraid of what he was going to tell me I owed," she said.
It was free. 
Not one to take charity, Ms. Fairbank said she was stunned.
The next month, without any warning, her water heater broke. When she reached out for help again, Community Action referred her to the county's Office for the Aging. By the end of the afternoon, her daughter's boyfriend had picked up a new water heater, which he installed that day.
"The next thing you know, I was getting tons of phone calls from people asking me what I needed," Ms. Fairbank said. 
They brought food, set up doctor's appointments and paid for her eyeglasses.
In October, she was told about a grandparents-as-caregivers meeting in Dover at St. Charles Catholic Church, sponsored by Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, which is also supported by the Neediest Cases Fund. While the children took part in the Halloween festivities, Ms. Fairbank met a new friend, Patricia Healey, senior program development consultant at the Catholic Charities office in Poughkeepsie.
Ms. Healey asked Ms. Fairbank about her family and their needs, like food, clothing and shoes. 
As Christmas approached, Ms. Fairbank received unexpected bags of donated gifts. A bleak holiday was suddenly filled with joy, she said. 
Ms. Fairbank has tried to stay ahead of her bills, relying largely on what she receives from Social Security. Feeding her grandchildren took priority over other expenses, she said, but soon there was just not enough money. In July, she was almost $1,200 behind in rent on the lot for her trailer. 
When an old schoolmate called to tell her about a high school reunion, their conversation turned to Ms. Fairbank's troubles. The schoolmate reached out to mutual friends. Their donations, and $383 in Neediest Cases money from the archdiocese, helped head off an eviction.
Today, Ms. Fairbank's work as a second-time parent continues. So, too, does the daily struggle to provide a stable, loving home for her grandchildren. Next year, she says, the trailer may need a new roof.
Meanwhile, she simply tries to make her rent and manage her other bills. She has become a more frugal cook. It is, for her, a "one day at a time" existence.
"You know what makes it all worth it?" Ms. Fairbank asked. "Katy said to me the other day: 'Grandma, you know why I like hanging out with you? Because I love you so much.' "

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,589,374.67
Recorded Tuesday: 11,995.00
Total: $2,601,369.67

Last year to date: $2,806,236.95

CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Sunday with an article about Mary Caryl Fairbank and other grandparents who raise their grandchildren and receive help through donations to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund gave an incorrect spelling in some copies for the surname of three of her grandchildren. They are Rachel, Michael and Garry Mayes III, not Mays.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vaughn Bennett, 17, and his grandmother, Esther Bennett, 77, outside their home in Brooklyn. Ms. Bennett, one of 2.4 million grandparents nationwide serving as principal caregivers for grandchildren, has had custody of Vaughn since he was 4. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times); Margarita Bordyug, 63, shares her apartment in Brooklyn with two grandchildren, Maria Kolesnichenko, 13, and her brother, Dmitriy, 17. Ms. Bordyug helped arrange for the children to come to the United States in 1996 after their parents died of cancer. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Mary Caryl Fairbank, 66, left, with her daughter, Susan Fairbank, 41, and grandchildren Michael Mayes, 2; Rachel Mayes, 4; Garry Mayes III, 9; and Kathryn Donahoe, 13, in Wingdale, N.Y. The elder Ms. Fairbank provides much of the children's care. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDPARENTS (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); CHILD CARE (88%); MENTAL ILLNESS (87%); CHILDREN (86%); RAP MUSIC (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (65%); CENSUS (65%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

PERSON: Kari Haskell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



699 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: RESOURCES; 
Oil Experts See Long-Term Risk To Iraqi Underground Reserves

BYLINE:  By JEFF GERTH

 BODY:
As the Bush administration spends hundreds of millions of dollars to repair the pipes and pumps above ground that carry Iraq's oil, it has not addressed serious problems with Iraq's underground oil reservoirs, which American and Iraqi experts say could severely limit the amount of oil those fields produce.
 In northern Iraq, the large but aging Kirkuk field suffers from too much water seeping into its oil deposits, the experts say, and similar problems are evident in the sprawling oil fields in southern Iraq. 
 Experts familiar with the Iraqi oil industry have said years of poor management damaged the fields, and some warn that the current drive to rapidly return the fields to prewar capacity risks reducing their productivity in the long run.
"We are losing a lot of oil," said Issam al-Chalabi, Iraq's former oil minister. He said it "is the consensus of all the petroleum engineers" involved in the Iraqi industry that maximizing oil production may be detrimental to the reservoirs. 
A 2000 United Nations report on the Kirkuk field said "the possibility of irreversible damage to the reservoir of this supergiant field is now imminent."
American officials acknowledge the underground problems, but figuring out how to address them is a quandary for the United States. The Bush administration and the Iraqis are banking on oil revenues to help pay for Iraq's reconstruction, and American officials say aggressively managing the reservoirs is crucial to keeping oil and revenue flowing. But so far, American officials have steered clear of delving below ground, partly, they say, out of fear of adding to suspicion in the Arab world that the United States invaded Iraq to control its oil.
The above-ground versus below-ground debate also raises the question of whether the American-led reconstruction effort is intended just to repair damage from the war or to improve conditions beyond what they were before the invasion.
When Wayne Kelley, a Texas oil engineer, and other experts asked about attending to Iraq's oil reservoirs during a government conference for contractors in July, Army Corps of Engineers officials said their mission was restoring war-damaged facilities, not "redeveloping the oil fields," according to a transcript of the meeting.
But in a recent interview, Rob McKee, a former top executive with ConocoPhillips who took over last month as senior oil adviser for the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad, said that while some might overstate the underground problems, he believed that the reservoirs did demand attention.
"It's bad," Mr. McKee said in a telephone interview, "but it will not be catastrophic and especially overnight." Still, he said, it is crucial to collect data, and do engineering on the problem.
Wendy Hall, a spokeswoman for Halliburton, the Houston oil services and engineering company managing the Iraqi oil-repair job, said Iraq's present production levels and the administration's future oil goals "cannot be sustained without reservoir maintenance."
Thamir Ghadhban, a senior adviser to the Iraqi oil minister, Ibrahim Bahr al-Uloum, disputed that view and predicted that production would return to prewar capacity of three million barrels a day by the end of 2004; current production is at slightly more than two million barrels a day. At the same time, he said in an interview, "we should do much more than we have in the past" to maintain the reservoirs. "We definitely have to put more money into it and bring in consultants," he said.
The Army Corps of Engineers has already set aside $1.7 billion for maintaining Iraq's oil supply, and the money has been split between paying for imported fuel and fixing the Iraqi pipes, pumps and transfer stations, officials say. About $2 billion has been approved for oil infrastructure repairs next year, including about $40 million to begin the study of the reservoirs. But managing the reservoirs could be a long and expensive process involving complicated computer simulation and changes in extraction techniques.
This work is particularly important, oil experts say, because while Iraq sits on one of the world's largest deposits of oil, most of it is drawn from two older fields, Rumaila in the south and Kirkuk in the north.
The complications in Iraq are common in aging fields, whose management is a balance of geology, physics and economics. Engineers often compare oil reservoirs to a bottle of soda, which has a high level of energy when full but loses energy as it is depleted. Engineers use a variety of methods to maintain the pressure needed to bring the oil to the surface, including injection of gas or water into the fields.
Pumping oil too quickly can upset the balance, leading to more gas and water migrating into the wells and ultimately making extraction of oil uneconomical. Oil experts said Saddam Hussein demanded high production, but United Nations economic sanctions precluded Iraq from acquiring the sophisticated computer-modeling equipment and technology required to manage older reservoirs properly. As a result, despite the ingenuity of Iraqi engineers, the fields have suffered.
Oil experts working for the United Nations found that some reservoirs in southern Iraq "may only have ultimate recoveries of between 15 percent and 25 percent of the total oil" in the field, as compared with an industry norm of 35 to 60 percent.
Before the United States-led invasion, the Iraqis sought outside help in managing its reservoirs. "Kirkuk was of particular concern and particular urgency," said Maury Vasilev, senior vice president of PetroAlliance Services, a Russian oil-field company that held discussions last year with Iraq's Oil Ministry. He said that because of the water content in the wells, "there was a question of how much oil they could recover."
More recent estimates of Kirkuk's condition are also bleak. Fadhil Chalabi, a former top Iraqi oil executive now based in London, said Kirkuk's expected recovery rate had dropped to 15 percent from 30 percent. An American oil executive said Iraqi engineers recently told him that they were now expecting recovery rates of 9 percent in Kirkuk and 12 percent in Rumaila without more advanced technology.
Iraq's problems were well known to the United States before the war. The Energy Infrastructure Planning Group, set up by senior Bush administration officials in September 2002 to plan for the oil industry in the event of war, learned that Iraq was reinjecting crude oil to maintain pressure in the Kirkuk field.
"Iraqis acknowledged it was a poor practice," said one administration expert involved with the group, and as the main war wound down, the Iraqis "were unequivocal that that practice had to stop and right away."
But it did not. The amount of oil being reinjected is now 150,000 to 250,000 barrels a day, down from as much as 400,000 barrels a day last summer, said Mr. McKee, but he added that he had never encountered such a practice in his long career in the oil industry.
The reinjection of oil was a clear sign of trouble in the underground reservoirs, but the energy planning task force decided not to address them, partly for political reasons, according to participants. 
"We didn't want to give fuel to the fire of debate that was saying the U.S. was just doing this to steal the oil," an administration official said.
Task force participants said there was another potential political factor. The group had secretly decided, without soliciting bids, that the contract for fixing Iraq's oil infrastructure would go to Kellogg, Brown & Root, a unit of Halliburton, which had an existing Pentagon contract related to war planning. Halliburton was previously run by Vice President Dick Cheney.
"Everyone realized the selection of K.B.R. was going to look bad," said one task force member. 
K.B.R. and others made a case that reservoir management was necessary, and the occupation authority asked Congress for the $40 million now set aside for reservoir management. But Ms. Hall, the Halliburton spokeswoman, said this month that those underground tasks had been "pulled and are not being funded" even though reservoir maintenance is crucial to even present production.
Mr. McKee, however, said the financing was not canceled, but just "pushed back for a short while."
There is not yet a firm price tag for modernizing Iraq's oil industry, but it is clear it will be enormous.
Edward C. Chow, a former Chevron executive who is now a visiting scholar with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, estimates that it will cost $20 billion to restore Iraqi production to prewar levels. 
Mr. McKee said he believed that Iraq could get back to the prewar production capacity of three million barrels a day under current budgets. 
But even he is cautious. 
"How sustainable that would be is a question," he said.

GRAPHIC: Map of Iraq highlighting oil fields in Kirkuk and Rumaila: The Iraqi oil fields in Kirkuk and Rumaila are a major concern. (pg. 24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (87%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); ARMIES (66%); TRANSCRIPTS (63%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Jeff Gerth

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%) Kirkuk (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



700 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: State Debates Massachusetts Ruling 

BYLINE:  By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
ANNE STANBACK stepped to the lectern at a room in the Legislative Office Building in Hartford on Nov. 18, ostensibly to announce the results of a poll her organization, Love Makes a Family, had commissioned on same-sex marriage. But the Massachusetts Supreme Court had upstaged Ms. Stanback only moments earlier, declaring same-sex marriage legal in that state.
 "Good morning," Ms. Stanback was able to eke out before the audience roared with elation. 
 A moment later, someone whispered in her ear, "'I've never seen anybody get a standing ovation for saying good morning,"' Ms. Stanback said. 
Maureen Murphy, a New Haven civil rights lawyer, said the implications of the Massachusetts ruling are huge for Connecticut.
"The language of the court is so strong about the importance of not excluding same-sex couples from the civil institution of marriage," she said. "I don't think a legislature from any state can ignore the reasoning of the Massachusetts court. It's the first court to hit the issue head on and with such strong language."
The decision was met with more joy for those in favor and greater frustration for those opposed than the day Vermont announced it would permit same-sex civil unions, because of what is legally termed 'portability.' Vermont civil unions are recognized only in Vermont, as a separate but unequal parallel to marriage. In finding that marriage could not constitutionally be denied to same-sex couples, the Massachusetts court gave any same-sex marriage performed in Massachusetts portability to another state that does not explicitly prohibit it, which includes Connecticut. (Thirty-eight states have Defense of Marriage acts, which define marriage as a union of one man and one woman.)
Brian Brown, executive director of the conservative Family Institute of Connecticut, said the court's decision had galvanized the opposition to battle same-sex marriage even more energetically. Yet several legislators who have opposed same-sex marriage acknowledged that gay rights groups' predictions that Connecticut may well see some sort of domestic partnership law in the next five years or so. Indeed, the Love Makes a Family survey found that 81 percent of the 600 residents polled believed that same-sex marriage would become legal in Connecticut in their lifetimes, whether they agreed with it or not. 
"Unfortunately, I fear they may be right," said State Representative T.R. Rowe, a Republican of Trumbull and an opponent of same-sex marriage. "Society in general is moving -- sometimes slowly, sometimes rapidly, snowballing lately -- further and further away from traditional notions of morality. As we go further and further from those notions, we're going to see more and more innovations, things that were unspeakable only a generation ago becoming mainstream."
Where Massachusetts addressed its issue in the courts, Connecticut gay rights groups have chosen to work through the Legislature to pass a bill allowing their members marital privileges. A bill extending the rights of marriage to same-sex couples failed in legislative committee in April. Various other bills have been discussed in the Legislature, but have not progressed through it. 
Now that the Massachusetts courts have spoken, many gay-rights groups don't just want a domestic partnership or civil union law. 
"Certainly, a civil union law would be more appealing to legislators now," said Ms. Stanback of Love Makes a Family, who in October had said she would be satisfied with a civil-union law after a Quinnipiac University poll indicated that more than 51 percent of those polled said they would support one. "But it's less appealing to us. Now we're talking about what we wanted to talk about all along: full civil marriage. This has raised our hopes."
Of the 68,873 households in Connecticut comprising unmarried partners, 7,386 were same-sex households, according to the 2000 census. Proponents of same-sex marriage predicted there would be an exodus of homosexual couples across the border into Massachusetts less than six months from now, when marriage will be available to them. Those couples will return expecting their marriages to be recognized.
Ms. Murphy cited common-law marriage as a similar issue. Connecticut does not recognize common-law marriage, but case law exists that has recognized common-law marriages from other states. If a couple who lives in a state that recognizes common-law marriage moved to Connecticut, they would be considered to have a valid marriage," Ms. Murphy said.
Ms. Murphy has many gay and lesbian clients, none of whom has pursued a same-sex marriage case in the courts. The Legislature also has a history of working with the gay and lesbian community on equality issues. Legislators passed the Second-Parent Adoption Act, allowing an unmarried couple to legally share custody of a child they parent together and have contemplated numerous bills for domestic partnerships, civil unions and marriage.
"The advocates for change in Massachusetts felt so strongly that they pursued it in the courts, and those opposed to change are talking about passing a constitutional amendment," said John A. Kissell, the deputy minority leader of the State Senate and a ranking member of the judiciary committee. He has opposed same-sex marriage in the Legislature in the past.
"I don't see those extremes in Connecticut," he said. "We're a live-and-let-live kind of state, moderate in many things, and I see things occurring incrementally here. Seeing how much change has occurred -- while I might not necessarily agree with the change -- I would predict in five years or less the Legislature may embrace civil unions or domestic partnership. We are moving in that direction."
Groups will continue to gather, to celebrate and to protest. Love Makes a Family threw a party Nov. 19 at Cedarbrook Cafe in Westport, one of the oldest gay bars in New England, where several hundred people cheered the Massachusetts' decision. The group also sponsored a "Rally to Marry" on Oct. 4. 
On the other side, Mr. Brown of the Family Institute of Connecticut, who has called this issue "the largest battle in the culture wars since Roe. v. Wade," is planning a rally to protest same-sex marriage at the State Capitol building in February, during the opening of the legislative session.
"I don't think people have even perceived how important this issue will be for the immediate future, in any way you can imagine, sociopolitically, economically, in how we perceive marriage," Mr. Brown said. "There are interesting implications here that haven't even been teased out. We're working with rabbis, with African-American churches, with all kinds of people who are opposed to it. This is a brand-new form of political involvement that transcends old ideological labels."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maureen Murphy, a New Haven civil rights lawyer, said the Massachusetts ruling should affect Connecticut.. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); VERDICTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (77%); LAWYERS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%) Marriages; Homosexuality; Decisions and Verdicts; Suits and Litigation

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT (58%)

PERSON: Maureen Murphy; Jane Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (71%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); VERMONT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%) Connecticut ; Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



701 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & COMPANY; 
Can Goat Meat Be The Next Cash Crop?

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER GOLDBLATT

DATELINE: AUGUSTA 

 BODY:
TUCKED in the hilly northwest corner of Sussex County, where rusty silos share the land with freshly minted custom homes, Sean Gebauer sees New Jersey's next farming opportunity.
 Seventeen female goats huddle around a hayrack in front of him, jostling for access. Some of them lodge their entire heads into the hay for the maximum serving size. 
 "A lot of people aren't aware that the goat market is there," Mr. Gebauer said on a recent visit. "We're just not meeting it." 
 Mr. Gebauer belongs to a group of local farmers who are trying to make the goat New Jersey's next piece of agricultural pride and joy. They want to serve more of the 47 million pounds of goat meat consumed in the United States and develop standards for raising the animals that will merit the livestock equivalent of the name brand, Jersey Fresh.
 "If we can raise goats on farms in New Jersey and direct market them to consumers, we can get a higher return to farmers and keep open space and farmland preserved," said Dan Wunderlich, an agricultural consultant who helped form the New Jersey State Meat Goat Association last year. With the help of a $31,320 grant from the United States Department of Agriculture, they hope to develop an education program for farmers, quality standards and marketing venues for goat meat.
 Proponents say New Jersey could be the ideal breeding ground for such a venture. After all, New Jersey has the largest concentration of annual goat slaughters in the country, according to the Agriculture Department. And the state is surrounded by the most prevalent goat consumers: the estimated 750,000 Muslims who live in New York and northern New Jersey, along with sizable immigrant populations from Latin American and Caribbean countries.
 Until now, that demand has been met by Australia and New Zealand, which supply about 35 percent of the goat consumed in the United States, according to the American Meat Goat Association, based in Sonora, Tex. Texas dominates domestic goat meat production, and New Jersey ranks a paltry 27th in goat meat sales, Agriculture Department figures show.
 But as local immigrant populations swell, many say that could quickly change.
 "New Jersey people don't realize that they're sitting on a tremendous gold mine," said Dr. Robert Herr, a consultant and goat broker in Narvon, Pa. "All these goats are coming in from different places and the local farms could be filling the demand themselves. In our economic times, goats are one of the bright spots."
 For New Jersey's farmers, goats are appealing for two main reasons: they provide a new market with low barriers to entry, and for livestock they lead a relatively low-maintenance lifestyle.
 Goats only need a fraction of the acreage of larger animals. About five of them could occupy the two acres it would take to accommodate one cow and require just a few daily feedings, Mr. Wunderlich of the meat goat association explained. He said a farmer could start a herd of the popular Boer goats with a male and a female that each cost about $600.
 Moreover, goats are not particularly picky eaters, and help rid farmland of nuisance vegetation. While sheep and cows graze down grassy pastures, goats are known as browsers. They have no qualms about browsing through a poison ivy patch for a feast or scarfing down briar-covered multiflora rose bushes.
 And for many farming families, goats are both pets and meat. They come when you call them, and they like to be petted.
 Florence, one of the 13 goats owned by Paula Schafer, who lives just across the Delaware River in Dingmans Ferry, Pa., breeds or shows at the New Jersey State Fair, likes toride around town in the front seat of her daughter's Ford pickup. "They've got great personalities," Ms. Schafer said. "They like to be with you."
 Culinary experts say that there is a potentially hefty appetite for a New Jersey-bred goat.
 Because the meat is as high in protein as beef and chicken but lower in fat, according to the Agriculture Department's research service, it would be an easy sell to the well-heeled eating public that is infatuated with precocious cuisine as well as the low-carbohydrate, protein-intensive Atkins diet.
 The meat, which is sometimes sold as Chevon (a name rooted in "chevre," the French term for goat), has an approachable flavor and texture that chefs place somewhere between beef and lamb.
 "It's doesn't taste barn-yardy in any way," said Tina Ujlaki, executive food editor of Food and Wine magazine, who speculated that goat could easily make its way into the mainstream just as buffalo meat has in the last decade. "Do I think it could become the next buffalo? Absolutely."
 Goat is already a staple in many Muslim homes. The animal is commonly sacrificed and served during Eid al-Adha, the festival that marks Abraham's willingness to sacrifice his son in response to a command from God, as it is written in the Koran. The meat is often roasted in a curry sauce and served with rice.
 In Jamaican cuisine, curried goat kid is standard fare. In Latin American venues, Seco de Chivo, an Ecuadorian braised goat stew, is often served. And capretto, a slow-roasted baby goat, has become the signature dish at L'Impero, an Italian restaurant in Manhattan. When Scott Conant, the chef, opened last year, he said he was buying about three goats a week, each of which could make about 24 portions. Now, his weekly goat buy is 14.
 "It's really taken on a life of its own," said Mr. Conant, who gets his goat from a cooperative in Vermont. "For that to happen, without going out and pushing it, just putting it on the menu, kind of says it."
 James Laird, chef and owner of Restaurant Serenade in Chatham, said he would like to add goat to his market menu, which now includes soup made from Vineland asparagus and organic pork from Pittstown.
 "Everyone knows that something that comes from your backyard is going to be fresher," said Mr. Laird, who noted that goat could also help keep his cuisine on the cutting edge.
 "That's the whole thing for marketing a restaurant," he said, "bringing new and creative ideas to the customers without being gimmicky." 
 But a chef's inventions can go only so far. "You can't create a new animal," Mr. Laird said. "God only created so many."
 For the state, the goat meat drive fits into a continuing endeavor to diversify the Jersey Fresh brand, which includes blueberries, honey and nearly 80 other products. The state's Department of Agriculture recently developed the Jersey Bred label, the livestock version of Jersey Fresh, under which thoroughbred horses and goat could be sold. It also recently obtained a $79,070 grant from the United States Department of Agriculture to study the market for produce used by various ethnic groups.
 State officials hope these efforts will help protect New Jersey farmland.
 "Our producers have a hard time in some areas of the commodity marketplace because of the high cost of doing business in a densely populated market like ours," Agriculture Secretary Charles Kuperus said. "We need to be innovating and seeking out new markets in order to sustain their agricultural operations."
 For now, the demand is certainly there. The American Meat Goat Association says domestic goat consumption has quadrupled since 1997.
 But some say that local suppliers will have a hard time profiting from goats, given the higher cost of land, feed and taxes compared with other states. Goat development programs have already sprung up in Alabama, Maine, Ohio and South Carolina. Other countries may also boost goat meat exports, said Marvin Shurley, president of the association.
 "If and when it happens," Mr. Shurley said, "it's going to have an effect on the prices our producers see."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Goats -- like the ones grazing on the Barbour farm in Great Meadows -- are appealing for two main reasons: they provide a new market with low barriers to entry, and for livestock they lead a relatively low-maintenance lifestyle. (Photographs by Tom Madden for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOAT FARMING (91%); MAMMALS (90%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); COINS & COINAGE (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); ANIMALS (88%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (74%); RELIGION (50%) Livestock; Goats; Industry Profiles

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%)

PERSON: Jennifer Goldblatt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (68%); AUSTRALIA (68%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



702 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS; 
The Democratic Majority Shouldn't Get Comfortable

BYLINE:  By Iver Peterson; Iver Peterson reports from New Jersey for The New York Times.

DATELINE: LAWRENCEVILLE 

 BODY:
The Democrats, to the disbelief of just about everyone, actually gained seats in the recent legislative elections, ending a half-century tradition of seeing the governor's party lose strength in an off-year election. The victory has put the Democrats in total control of the State House for the first time since 1991.
 So it is a time for celebration for Democrats, but also, their leaders are frank to say, a time for caution. In a state that has a history of delivering thin majorities to the winners, the Democrats have to be careful not to alienate the voters who gave them their new power. 
 Those voters live in the suburban and rural districts that the Republicans have historically controlled, and, as the Democrats know, the Republicans will fight hard to recoup their losses in the next election.
 "If you look back after 1991, we had 22 seats and the majority were from urban New Jersey districts," said Assemblyman Joseph Roberts, the Democratic majority leader. "Our growth since then has been first in suburban areas and now in rural New Jersey."
 The cities may be monolithically Democratic, but the political alchemy of the suburbs and the rural townships can be tricky. On one side are the longtime residents, retirees and farmers who are culturally conservative and are angry about their taxes. They are the Republican core. But moving in next to them are the newcomers who came looking for open space and less crowding, and their interests are divided. They, too, want lower taxes, but they also want the things taxes bring, notably new schools and libraries, better roads and more police protection. 
 One of the Democrats' biggest wins came in the 12th District, in Monmouth County, where enough Republican voters turned against the Senate president, John Bennett, to give the district's one Senate seat and two Assembly seats to the Democrats. Keeping Democrats elected from places like Colts Neck, Marlboro and Howell is going to be a challenge, Mr. Roberts readily agreed.
 "As our caucus becomes more geographically balanced it has also become more ideologically balanced," he said. "Anybody who thinks the Democratic caucus is going to be the captive of any particular ideology doesn't recognize how inclusive and diverse we've become."
 In past sessions, the Democrats have focused on what Mr. Roberts calls consumer issues -- enacting "child-proof" gun legislation, curtailing telemarketers, straightening out E-ZPass and cracking down on predatory lending practices. 
 Not many of those divide people, unless you are in the informed minority and think it is dumb to mandate that guns know their owners before the technology even exists. 
 But in coming years the state Legislature will have to struggle with a sharply ideologically -- and even racially tinged -- fight over school financing. Suburban schools trying to cope with enrollment booms are demanding a share of the multibillion-dollar program that started as a court-ordered effort to rebuild schools for poor urban districts.
 There is going to be tension between Democrats from the poor cities and those more recently elected from the suburbs when it comes to dividing up limited tax dollars for new schools. But, Mr. Roberts said, some internal divisions are to be expected.
 "It's easy for a caucus to be unified when everyone looks the same and everyone comes from the same place," he said. The challenge, he added comes when there is a diversity of people and of ideals.
 For instance, those tensions arose when the Senate Democrats recently caucused to choose new leadership. Some members insisted that Senator Shirley Turner of Lawrenceville should be elected co-majority leader with Senator Bernard Kenny of Hudson, but the move was defeated after an acrimonious debate.
 In the party's Assembly caucus, Mr. Roberts was re-elected majority leader and Albio Sires was re-elected speaker with little dissent.
On school financing, the Democrats are going to avoid rocking the suburban boat. 
 "We have been equally insistent that there has to be balance for the other districts," Mr. Roberts said, referring to "the growing suburban districts."
 Cultural ideologies of the Democrats' left wing are also not going to go far, he said. The issue of gay marriage, for example, which is now before the courts, is not going to become a Democratic Party issue.
 "I think that there will be a fair amount of support for advancing domestic partnership legislation, or something that gives individuals in New Jersey economic equity before the state," Mr. Roberts said. 
 But not for private employers. 
 "We will be very careful not to mandate costs or obligations on private employers," he added. "The state should lead by example."
 Indeed, liberal ideologies will not find much traction in the current legislature with 47 Democratic seats to 33 for the Republicans in the Assembly and with only a slim 22-to-18 majority in the Senatel.
 "When you think of issues that affect labor or the gay community, for example," Mr. Roberts said, "those are not the issues that are going to dominate the agenda of the Democratic Party."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iver Peterson 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (64%); LIBRARIES (64%); TELEMARKETING (60%); PREDATORY LENDING (50%) Politics and Government; Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments

PERSON: Iver Peterson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



703 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3586 words

HEADLINE: At Rutgers, Weathering An Ordeal 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SULLIVAN

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK 

 BODY:
RICHARD McCORMICK was in trouble.
 As the new president of Rutgers, the 55-year-old academic had his dream job: a staggering salary, a mansion and the professional challenge of a lifetime at a place where his family ties are the stuff of legend. But there was a problem, and it was coming in the shape of telephone calls to his suite of offices as Dr. McCormick grappled with the complexities of running a major corporation. 
 The Seattle Times was checking out reports that Dr. McCormick had been forced out of his job as president of the University of Washington -- the culmination of months of disenchantment on the part of the directors of the university -- because he had been having an affair with a member of his staff. 
 It could not have come at a worse time. Of course, there is no good time for a newspaper to publish a front-page article about one's marital infidelity. But there are bad times and there are worse times, and at the moment Dr. McCormick was riding a tectonic shift at Rutgers. Governor McGreevey and a committee of business executives and politicians were eager to transform the sprawling state university and two other institutions into one nationally prominent research university. As the governor saw it, the Rutgers trustees were dragging their feet.
 Dr. McCormick -- new to the job of running Rutgers, the state university with more than 50,000 students, 2,552 faculty members and a budget of more than a billion dollars a year -- was caught in the middle and feeling the pressure. The last thing he needed was another phone call from Seattle. But there was Steve Miletich, a reporter, on the phone -- polite yet persistent. He wanted to check one more thing. He had received another report. Could Dr. McCormick find the time to answer one more question?
 Mr. Miletich called once in March and a few more times over the summer and early fall. As the year wore on and the phone calls continued, the pressure grew more intense. The questions seemed to grow more specific.
 From the time the calls began, Dr. McCormick had been denying that he had had an affair. But told by the reporter from The Seattle Times that the newspaper planned to publish an article disclosing his infidelity, he finally admitted that it was true. The response came quickly. The same day the article appeared, Dr. McCormick -- at a hastily arranged news conference with his wife by his side -- publicly acknowledged the affair and apologized to Rutgers and the University of Washington for making "a grave personal mistake." 
 "It was awful," he said recently. "It was the worst thing I have ever been through."
 In the aftermath, Dr. McCormick tried to explain how someone whose entire career has been built on truth and scholarship had resorted to misdirection to head off a sordid tale. For once, he seemed speechless, hunching forward in his chair, squeezing his hands between his knees. "It was humiliating," he said. "It was all so embarrassing."

Growing Up With Rutgers
 The Old Queens building at Rutgers, the office of the president, is the physical and metaphysical center of New Jersey's university system. Solidly square, red brick, with a single central tower, the stately, vaguely barn-like structure rests on a high bluff here overlooking the Raritan River. A young Alexander Hamilton once parked a battery of artillery on the hill, blasting a few shots at the British to discourage their pursuit of retreating colonials.
 From his early boyhood home in New Brunswick, Richard Levis McCormick would have glimpsed Old Queens above the river. Even after his family moved to the more rural town of Piscataway, the building would have been a familiar site as he visited the campus where his parents taught.
 Scholarship was as much a part of the McCormick home as the living room furniture. Dr. McCormick's father was a history professor at Rutgers, and his mother taught chemistry. Conversations were filled with books and theories and university politics. 
 Academics, he said, "I learned about at my parents' dining room table."
 In college, his career showed a comet trail of academic stardom. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa at Amherst and went on to Yale, where he earned a doctorate in history and was awarded the university prize for the year's best dissertation in American history. From there, he spent two years as a visiting fellow at Princeton University. 
 His return to the city of his childhood as a professor of history in 1976 had a dynastic flavor. His father, Richard P. McCormick, was one of the university's most distinguished historians, having written the school's official bicentennial history in 1966. The younger Dr. McCormick, who specialized in political history, settled comfortably into his father's department. In 1985 he won a Guggenheim fellowship, and two years later he was appointed chairman of the history department.
 "As a historian, he has an extraordinarily insightful mind," said Paul Clemens, a colleague at Rutgers.
 Dr. Clemens, who still teaches here, said in a recent interview that his colleague also had intense work habits: "Dick worked seven days a week. The only relaxation he was comfortable with was when he was jogging."
 Dr. McCormick's research charted the growth of American political parties through the late 19th and early 20th centuries. After writing several articles on political corruption for academic journals, he wanted to write a book on the topic over the course of American history. But the subject proved too vast, and his research stalled.
 "I found myself offered the chairmanship of the department," he said. "At the same time, my scholarship was struggling."
 Lloyd Gardner, who also taught in the history department at the time, recalled that Dr. McCormick was "an innovative chairman." He fought for lighter teaching loads and led in the creation of academic centers, which combined instruction from different departments.
Dr. McCormick recalls reaching something of an epiphany, in which he realized that administration could offer as much creativity as scholarship.
 "I discovered that there was this great university out there," he said.
 Dr. McCormick spent two years as chairman and three more years as the university's dean of arts and sciences. Then in 1992 he was offered a job as provost, the chief academic officer, at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
 Leaving Rutgers was surprisingly painless. Dr. McCormick's two children were very young, and his wife, Suzanne Lebsock, a distinguished scholar and winner of the Bancroft Prize for history, had no problem getting an appointment at North Carolina.

Next Stop, Chapel Hill
 When he arrived, Chapel Hill was in an uproar. A proposal to build an independent black cultural center had divided the campus, with supporters arguing for the need to acknowledge black history and opponents calling the plan segregationist. Paul Hardin, who was the chancellor at Chapel Hill, asked his new provost to come up with a solution that satisfied all sides of the increasingly bitter dispute. After several months and one brief takeover of the chancellor's office, Dr. McCormick's panel recommended the creation of the center, but with assurances that it would only involve academic research.
 "It was his personal role, the chairing of the committee and the writing of its report that brought that controversy to a successful conclusion," Dr. Hardin said. "He did a seamless job."
 After three years at Chapel Hill, Dr. McCormick was ready for a new challenge.
 The University of Washington asked if he would be interested in the presidency, but Dr. McCormick declined. At Chapel Hill, Dr. Hardin was retiring as chancellor, and the young provost had put his name forward to succeed him. When he was denied the position, Dr. McCormick decided to reconsider Washington's offer. As it happened, the University of North Carolina was competing in Seattle that year in the final four basketball tournament, and Dr. McCormick and his wife decided to take advantage of the visit by touring the university.
 Dr. McCormick said both of them liked what they saw, and in 1995 he resigned from Chapel Hill and was named president of the University of Washington.

A Driving Force in Washington
 In many ways, the University of Washington is the type of institution that people would like Rutgers to become. Respected academically, the school is also a scientific center and competitive in athletics as a member of the Pac-10 Conference. Indeed, when Governor McGreevey formed a commission last year to come up with a plan to streamline and revitalize New Jersey's medical schools, the University of Washington was one system cited as a possible model.
 Of course, no school is trouble-free, and Dr. McCormick soon found himself embroiled in a few battles on the Seattle campus. The fight over affirmative action was probably the most dramatic. Following the lead of California, which had already rejected racial preferences in college admissions, voters in Washington passed a referendum forbidding affirmative action at the state university. Administrators were concerned: not only did many of them support increasing the number of minority students, they also saw a diverse student body as integral to the long-term health of the university.
 The law, which took effect in 1998, had an immediate effect. One in 11 students in the freshman class was a member of a minority group; in 1999, the number dropped to 1 in 18. Forbidden to use race as a factor in admissions, Dr. McCormick responded by increasing recruitment and outreach to attract minority students.
 "We tried to swell the pipeline of minorities, to reach out to kids who never believed they could go to college," he said.
 Colleagues said Dr. McCormick brought a phenomenal appetite for work to the task, demanding long hours and concrete results from his staff. "He brought an energy level and a level of work that was new to people around the university," said George Bridges, dean and vice provost for undergraduate education at Washington. 
 Dr. McCormick soon became famous for his round-the-clock e-mail messages and ever-vigilant cellular telephone. "He works 24 hours a day as far as I can tell," Dr. Bridges said.
 The demands were not always popular with the staff. Some colleagues began to chafe under Dr. McCormick's driving schedule, and others complained that he was too focused on results and not sufficiently concerned for his subordinates. Still, the results were measurable. 
 "We are back to where we were in recruiting students of color prior to 1998," Dr. Bridges said.
 Other projects were not as successful. Dr. McCormick recruited Kristiina Vogt, an ecologist from Yale, as dean of the school of forestry, a politically sensitive area in the Northwest.
 "I think they wanted change, but they didn't want change that was going to bring any public attention," Dr. Vogt said. 
 She lasted only a few months in her new job. After clashing with faculty members and their supporters, Dr. Vogt asked to be allowed to teach full time at the university. 
 Another area in which Dr. McCormick received mixed reviews was his relationship with the state government. Most presidents of public universities spend considerable time cultivating relationships with the governor and the state legislature, and Dr. McCormick was no exception. Like Rutgers, Washington depended on the state for a substantial part of its budget, and also faced declining contributions from the legislature. 
 "Was Washington having budget problems?" Dr. McCormick said. "Sure, but we were not alone. All public research universities had problems in the 1990's."
 But despite the difficulties, his work received positive reviews while he was there. The board of regents that oversees the university was so pleased with Dr. McCormick that they awarded him bonuses in his early years. Still, he was unable to reverse the decline in state financing, and some wondered whether his strategy was flawed.
 "It may not be fair to blame him, although with Monday morning quarterbacking there are other strategies that could have been employed," said James N. Gregory, president of the university's chapter of the American Association of University Professors. "It is hard to know whether a different president could have been more successful."

Rutgers Reaches Out
 When the board of governors at Rutgers began looking for a new president in early 2002, Dr. McCormick, with his Rutgers pedigree and experience at top schools, must have been the ideal candidate. 
 Rutgers had been through some difficult years. Once considered one of the country's top schools, the university had faded into a respectable mediocrity in national rankings, and its once-proud football team was regularly trampled by opponents. A dissident group of faculty and alumni, called the Rutgers 1000, had formed to reverse the trend, contending that the school should concentrate on academics instead of spending money on expensive and failing sports teams. In addition, the new governor was proposing an ambitious restructuring of the state's research universities, combining Rutgers, the New Jersey Institute of Technology and the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. The energetic prodigal seemed to be the perfect solution.
 To the surprise of everyone involved, however, Dr. McCormick said no.
 "I was happy at the University of Washington and I felt I had more to contribute," Dr. McCormick said. "My family was happy in Seattle; my son was 13, and my daughter was 17 and in her last year of high school."
 When Dr. McCormick turned down Rutgers, the search stalled. The board appointed an acting president and considered new options. But weeks later, Dr. McCormick changed his mind.
 Why he did so is disputed. Dr. McCormick said he realized he had made the wrong choice, and when he discussed the idea with his family, they urged him to take the job.
 "I felt I had made a mistake," he said. "I remember thinking, 'You were on the verge of becoming president of Rutgers and you said no."'
 At about that time, the board president at Washington, Gerald Grinstein, told Dr. McCormick that the regents had received reports that he had had an affair with a subordinate. The board declined to comment for this article, but referred to a statement by Mr. Grinstein.
 "Although Dick McCormick brought very many important strengths to the university, the regents were very troubled by these allegations," he wrote. "On behalf of the board, I made it clear to Dick that such conduct was not acceptable and encouraged him to reconsider the opportunity at Rutgers."
 Dr. McCormick insists that he was not forced out at Washington despite his recent acknowledgement that the reports about his affair were a factor in his decision to leave. By the time he was contacted by the regents, he maintains, he had already reconsidered and decided to accept the presidency at Rutgers. 
 The position had much to offer. Not only would Dr. McCormick be returning to the university he considered his real home, but he would be earning more than $500,000 a year with a $500,000 bonus at the end of five years -- the third-highest salary among presidents of public universitys in the country -- and a mansion in which to live.

'How Proud I Am'
 On Oct. 25, 2002, Dr. McCormick was named the 19th president of Rutgers University. "Rutgers faculty, staff and students," he said, "let me tell you how proud I am to be home."
 He took office on Dec. 1, and the first few months were at once a homecoming and a honeymoon. Dr. McCormick received high marks from faculty and trustees alike, and the Rutgers 1000 disbanded, declaring that his apointment showed that the school was finally on the right course. There was also a familiar problem: a tight state budget, resulting in cutbacks in university financing.
 But everything had to take a back seat to the single big issue -- the governor's plan to restructure Rutgers. It is hard to overstate how important the proposal -- introduced by Mr. McGreevey the year Dr. McCormick returned to Rutgers -- was to the governor and the university. 
 Mr. McGreevey had made the restructuring a centerpiece of his administration, saying New Jersey needed a top-flight system of medical schools and scientific research centers to remain economically competitive. To the trustees and the board of governors, the plan was both a promise and a threat: the new university would receive more state funds, but the board members would lose much of their personal power and prestige as Rutgers was folded into a larger university.
 Under the 1956 law that created the modern version of Rutgers, both the 11-member board of governors and the 59-member board of trustees must approve any major changes to the university. To accomplish the restructuring, Mr. McGreevey had to bring along the two governing bodies. The new president was an early and enthusiastic supporter of the merger. Although he has said over the last year that details need to be ironed out before the final plan can be approved, Dr. McCormick has nonetheless worked to drive the measure through.
 "President McCormick has deftly handled the issue," said James P. Fox, the governor's chief of staff.
 It has not been easy. While members of the two boards have been concerned about their own loss of power under the restructuring, the governor has engaged in political brinkmanship. As recently as last week, Mr. McGreevey demanded approval of the plan by Jan. 1 in order to move the necessary financing measures through the state Legislature. Tiptoeing through the minefield, Dr. McCormick has continued to voice support for the plan while publicly signaling that the deadline might be counterproductive.
 "The restructuring is sufficiently complicated, and enough is at state that it's essential to get it right," he said recently. 
 While he was fighting this battle, other troubles were cropping up. In August, as he walked out of a New Brunswick liquor store, a thief dashed by and snatched his wallet. A month later, he was involved in a minor accident outside a convenience store. A police report noted that the officer smelled liquor on Dr. McCormick's breath, though no Breathalyzer test was administered. The officers determined that Dr. McCormick was not intoxicated, and no charges were filed. For his part, Dr. McCormick said he had merely had a glass of wine earlier in the day. Still, there were whispers.
 At the same time, problems at the University of Washington were emerging, and Dr. McCormick's role there was being mentioned in the litany. The football coach was implicated in a gambling scandal and dismissed by the university, and the basketball program was placed on probation for recruiting violations. The American Association of University Professors released an evaluation of the McCormick administration that, although making several positive points, gave him a grade of D. And The Seattle Times continued to call.
 "Beginning in March of 02, for reasons I will never know, The Seattle Times began looking into this," Dr. McCormick said. He said the reporter called once in March and several times in September and October.
 As Dr. McCormick later admitted, the strain was terrific. His wife already knew about the affair, he said, and he kept her informed about the newspaper's inquiry. But when he spoke to the reporter, he denied the indiscretion. Nor did he mention it to Governor McGreevey or the university trustees.
 "It was embarrassing," he said.
 The newspaper finally called and told Dr. McCormick that it was going publish an article disclosing the affair, and at that point he admitted that it had taken place. On Sunday, Nov. 2, the article appeared on the front page of The Seattle Times. Dr. McCormick held a news conference that same day, and standing between his wife and Gene O'Hara, the chairman of the board of governors, he apologized.
 "I regret the embarrassment these actions may bring upon the community of Rutgers and the University of Washington," he said.

Unanimous Support Is Expressed
 In a way, the time bomb that Dr. McCormick had been dreading burst with a tiny pop. Although the state's newspapers published several articles about him in the ensuing days, the faculty at Rutgers and the state's political leaders expressed unanimous support.
 "To be blunt, I don't really care," said Albert R. Gamper Jr., vice chairman of the board of governors. "I am not interested in what happened in Seattle, I am interested in what is happening on the banks of the Raritan."
 The main point supporters made was that Dr. McCormick's private life was his own business, and they seemed generally unconcerned about the circumstances of his departure from the University of Washington.
 "It is behind him," Dr. Gamper said. "It does not affect his job performance. Quite frankly, we are putting it behind us."
 For now, the governor's support for Dr. McCormick does not appear to have come with any strings. Dr. McCormick has tried to put the affair and its messy aftermath behind him even as the merger talks have become more tense, with the governor demanding the January deadline and the university president stalling for time.
 Through it all the governor has had nothing but praise for the president and has indicated that he will support him no matter what the outcome of the restructuring.
 "He has proven to be a strong leader," Mr. Fox said. "In full partnership with this administration, President McCormick will be instrumental in moving higher education in this state to the next level."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard L. McCormick, president of Rutgers, with his wife, Suzanne Lebsock, admitted having an affair while president of the University of Washington. (The Home News Tribune via Associated Press)(pg. 1); "I regret the embarrassment these actions may bring upon the community of Rutgers and the University of Washington," Richard L. McCormick, president of Rutgers -- standing between his wife, Suzanne Lebsock, and Gene O'Hara, the chairman of the university board of governors -- said at a news conference in which he admitted having had an affair. "It was awful," he said in a recent interview in his office, above. "It was the worst thing I have ever been through." After the news conference, he spoke with Kim Manning-Lewis, the executive director of university relations at Rutgers. (Photo by Associated Press/The Home News Tribune); (Photo by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times Press); (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); PUBLISHING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%) Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (93%) Rutgers, the State University; University of Washington

PERSON: JOHN SULLIVAN (50%) Richard Mccormick; John Sullivan

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



704 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1985 words

HEADLINE: Do-Good Marketing 

BYLINE:  By BEVERLY SAVAGE

 BODY:
IT is tough to come up with fresh ideas for raising funds, even for the best of causes. But two New Jerseyans, working separately and in different ways, are helping to plow new ground. Their tack is casual get-togethers held in ordinary homes or in bars, with a decided emphasis on socializing, much like Tupperware or Mary Kay cosmetics parties. Yet they are raising real money, even as the sour economy and scandals in the industry have made fund-raising increasingly competitive.
 On the face of it there are big differences between these two do-good entrepreneurs. Scott Delea, 32, is single and revels in the nightlife of Hoboken. Victoria Gonin, 42, a married suburbanite with three sons, relaxes at wine and cheese evenings in Mountain Lakes. What unites them is a natural instinct for marketing. Both founded their charity efforts on the principle that people want to do good as well as have fun but are constrained by a shortage of time. And both eschew many of the trappings of traditional fund-raising: tedious, self-congratulatory programs at the events themselves and unrelenting ego pampering of big donors. 
 Their organizations -- Party With Purpose for him and Womenade of Mountain Lakes for her -- have raised thousands of dollars through special events and e-mail promotion in the 18 months since they started up. 
 Party With Purpose (P.W.P.) sprang from a conversation Mr. Delea had with himself while driving to work on a Monday to his marketing job in Boonton. "That morning I was thinking that all I seemed to be doing was working and I asked myself what else I could do, how could I contribute in some way," he recounted in an interview. 
 He came up with the idea of raising money for various nonprofit groups by holding parties in bars and donating a generous percentage of the cover charge. Two weeks later, the brown-haired, broad-shouldered Mr. Delea stood at the door of the 10th and Willow Bar and Grill, greeting his guests and taking their money. That night Mr. Delea raised $1,000 for the North Jersey Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association, a charity selected in memory of his grandmother Marie Pisano. 
 His second event, last May, organized by a committee that he put together, was held at O'Donahue's in Hoboken and raised $3,000 for the American Cancer Society. And the next, in September at the 10th and Willow Bar and Grill, raised almost $7,000 for the Hoboken chapter of the Boys and Girls Clubs of America.
 Hoboken has been described as a ghetto for young urban professionals who are often working in their first jobs in Manhattan and living in groups of three or more in renovated railroad flats or new condos. They are an untapped market for philanthropy, according to Mr. Delea, who estimates that the average young Hobokenite frequents bars two to four times a week, spending $50 to $120 each night.
 "I want to get people involved in charitable causes without asking them to change their lifestyles," he said. "We all go out to have good times, but if that can be leveraged in some way to help others, that is phenomenal."
 It is also a good deal for the bar owners. They receive a percentage of the cover charge, and the events, which run from 7 to 10 p.m., help draw customers at a time when most establishments are only starting to liven up.
 Mrs. Gonin's target audience in the affluent, pastoral Mountain Lakes is mothers instead of young singles. Her scheme, equally as simple as Mr. Delea's, is to invite women to a potluck dinner and to ask each to bring a dish or a bottle of wine as well as a check for a designated charity. She had read about this concept in Living Simple magazine, which described the frustrations of a doctor who worked at a Washington homeless shelter and constantly wrote personal checks to bail her patients out of life's emergencies -- $50 for help with rent or $5 for a prescription co-payment. Someone suggested potluck dinners to raise money for these needs, and the Womenade concept was born. 
 Moved by her sister-in-law's recent diagnosis of breast cancer, Mrs. Gonin decided to create a series of Womenade events to benefit the North Jersey affiliate of the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation. She began by inviting a group of 18 women to her house last November. 
 "I knew I was on to something when everyone had been seated in the living room and I went into the kitchen to get some wine," she said. "When I walked back into the room, all the women were crying."
 What she was on to was the power of breast cancer as a terrible disease and as an incentive for fund-raising.
 It took a little time to build momentum, but by the end of June a Womenade committee assembled by Mrs. Gonin had held 11 parties -- several potlucks, a tea party, a pizza party luncheon, a pink-theme book group meeting and a fancy-dress Valentine's Day dance.
 The plan had been to hold just five events, with a goal of raising $10,000 in all. In fact, $35,000 was raised.
 "Women have been begging me to schedule just one more event," Mrs. Gonin said with a tone of mock exasperation last summer. As a result, a sushi party was held last weekend, and a holiday gathering is planned in the coming weeks, marking the end of Womenade 2003's effort for the Komen foundation.
 To a professional fund-raiser, both Womenade and Party With Purpose seem to be dreams come true. The efforts bring new blood, increased awareness and unexpected funds to organizations that normally work hard to achieve such results.
 "I have never seen such an outpouring of support in my 28 years with the Boys and Girls Club," Gary Greenberg, the executive director of the club's county organization, said recently of the night of the benefit for the Hoboken chapter. "I swear to God I choked up as I made my way through that throng -- I never expected such a crowd."
 The noise level that night at the 10th and Willow Bar and Grill, with ringing cellphones, background dance music and pockets of shrill chatter, prevented many from hearing Mr. Greenberg make similar remarks then, Mr. Delea said.
 "At first it bothered me that a lot of people didn't know why they were there," Mr. Delea said. "But then I realized later how much good had come from that evening." For one thing, he said, a number of people are now volunteering at the Hoboken Boys and Girls Club.
 The North Jersey affiliate of the Komen foundation says the efforts of Mountain Lakes Womenade were heaven sent. "We are very fortunate to have been selected as a beneficiary of Womenade's fund-raising events," said Deborah Belfatto, the executive director, "and are most grateful to the organization for helping us in our mission to eradicate breast cancer as a life-threatening disease." 
 Though Womenade and Party With Purpose seem like novel ideas, they reflect emerging trends in fund-raising at the national level, according to Stacy Palmer, editor of The Chronicle of Philanthropy, the industry journal.
 "There is a growing interest in new groups that are not affiliated with old institutions or established entities," she said. "And pollsters are finding that post-9/11, people are moving away from cocooning. They now want to be socially connected."
 Still, pollsters also say that people feel overextended and suffer information overload. P.W.P. and Womenade cut through those barriers by making it easy for people to participate by merely showing up and contributing.
 "We raised $35,000 and had only one real organizational meeting," Mrs. Gonin said. The committee members relied heavily on e-mail promotion and did not need to meet because they saw each other frequently as a matter of neighborhood routine. They also allowed Mrs. Gonin to lead the way.
 "I was surprised how much they trusted it to me," she said. "My biggest responsibilities were setting the vision and coaching on the entertaining part. We were so successful, I believe, because women could feel they were making a significant contribution without turning their lives upside down."
 Both Mrs. Gonin and Mr. Delea work in marketing. She is program manager for corporate marketing operations at I.B.M. in Armonk, N.Y., and he is senior vice president and general manger of Digital Grit, an interactive Web marketing agency in Boonton. 
 For fun Mr. Delea zooms around on his Honda Magna, runs with the Hoboken Harriers and takes a share in a summer house in Sea Girt. His interest in philanthropy was piqued at age 15 when he made Christmas breakfast at a homeless shelter and thereafter found that all holidays felt different. At Guildford High School in Connecticut Mr. Delea played football and wrestled, gaining "critical exposure to the benefits of team dynamics," he said. It was there that he undertook his first group social initiative, an all-night-after-the-prom party, one of the first in the area.
 At Syracuse University Mr. Delea tackled a complex and ugly social problem -- sexual assault. Bringing together the campus security force, the fraternity-sorority system as well as a feminist group, he organized a coalition that trained students to assist victims of assault and assigned them to nightlong shifts in the sorority and fraternity houses. The effort, the Blue Light Safe House Committee, was one of the toughest things he ever did, Mr. Delea said. "It was very hard to keep people motivated over a period of time," he said, "but we created phenomenal awareness and good feeling." 
 For Mrs. Gonin the path to philanthropy was not a straight one. She was born in Queens and graduated from Middlebury College. She met her husband at a Halloween costume party in San Francisco; he was dressed as a Chinese woman and she as Dolly Parton. Her organizational skills were honed on book groups and wine clubs, and it was not until her sister-in-law's diagnosis of breast cancer that she felt the need to give back. 
 "My brother is an oncologist at Mass General and so naturally his wife received the very best care, and they live in a wonderfully supportive community that rallied around her," she said. "But I just kept thinking what about all those other women, the ones who don't know how to pay for it all or don't have anyone to take them to chemo. What about them?"
 She started Womenade with the notion that the group would select a new charity to benefit each year.
 "I am drawn to global and national issues for our group because I think the local ones are covered so well by the people of Mountain Lakes," she said.
 The focus, however, has changed slightly this year in the Gonin household as the youngest son, Sebastian, 7, learned that he had Type 1 diabetes and now joins his father, Xavier, in receiving daily injections of insulin.
 "I have really wrestled with the selection of a cause for Womenade this year and while this should never be about me, so many people have encouraged the selection of diabetes," Mrs. Gonin said, "so that's what we will do." Part of the new effort will emphasize the connection between diabetes and good diet and exercise.
 As for P.W.P., it is gearing up for its first party in Manhattan, planning a splashy event on Feb. 6 to benefit the Police Athletic League. In contrast to Womenade, the vision for P.W.P. remains raising money for initiatives in the metropolitan area rather than national causes.
 "For young professionals who are quite transient, it's important to make a personal connection to a town," Mr. Delea said. "If we choose local charities, people may get involved and that would be great."
 Whatever differences they have in approach or philosophy, both groups have learned one truth about fund-raising: do not be afraid to ask for help.
 "I can get the idea started, but I can't keep it rolling without other people," Mr. Delea said. "If you reach out, people will help you."
 For her part, Mrs. Gonin said: "I learned this year that all you must do is tell people a good idea. A lot of people don't have the ideas, but they are willing to help and get involved."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Victoria Gonin, seated right, with her Womenade committee in Mountain Lakes. They have held a number of get-togethers to benefit a breast cancer foundation. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Scott Delea with partygoers (contributors) at his benefit Sept. 19 at the 10th and Willow Bar and Grill in Hoboken. Nadja Madon, left, and Denise Fay, middle. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (91%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (76%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (72%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (71%); COSMETICS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); EMAIL MARKETING (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (60%); CANCER (60%) Philanthropy; Cancer; Breast; Parties (Social)

COMPANY: MARY KAY HOLDING CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Womenade (Orgn); Party With Purpose (Orgn)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (72%)

PERSON: Victoria Gonin; Scott Delea; Beverly Savage

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%) Mountain Lakes (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



705 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: COUNTY LINES; 
These Truths Are Self-Evident

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS

 BODY:
PAYING attention to the gist of the latest political chatter around here? Every politician worth his salt is complaining bitterly about state mandates -- the large sums of money that New York's state government says Westchester County absolutely, positively has to pay for items like Medicaid and state pensions. 
 How gargantuan is the problem? The county executive's office, which has turned complaining about mandates into a performance art form, says that in its $1.4 billion budget proposal for 2004, only $300 million, or 21 percent, is open to its own discretion. What does this mean? It means that, by its own admission, our local government is functioning in large measure as a pass-through operation for the state. 
 Taxes are going up, and on 79 percent of it we have virtually no say. Services are being cut to ribbons, and on 79 percent of it we have virtually no say. That's quite a financial gut-shot. So what should Westchester residents, normally such self-assured people, do when dealt such a ridiculous hand? 
Whining is definitely the first option, but for the purposes of this column, at least, let's go a step beyond initial instinct. 
Politicians like Paul J. Feiner, the Greenburgh town supervisor, have already started to call for the dismantling of the county government. This, of course, would make town supervisors, like Mr. Feiner, more powerful. The act of dissolving county government, however, has the feel of rearranging deck furniture on a sinking boat. The major problem remains: State mandates are consuming us, and whether local power is held by the county or towns and villages, Albany will still be telling us what to do with the bulk of our money. 
Instead, we need to set ourselves free. We need to put down our low-carb meals, hop into our late-model sports cars, roll down the windows and yell, "We're not going to take it anymore!" 
If the state is giving us no say in the running of our own region, we should simply secede, turning Westchester into the 51st state.
"We can call it Luxembourg," said Kevin Barry, sipping a beer at Sports Page, a bar in White Plains. As a New York State resident, he said he had no identity anyway. He left twice, he said, driven out by high costs and taxes. He moved to North Carolina and Maryland, before being drawn back both times by family here. 
Any county as wealthy as Westchester, Mr. Barry said, could become self-sustaining. "We'd have to annex I-84 into the county so we can toll it." He even had a quick suggestion for a state bird for a new Westchester state. "The crow," he said, "in honor of West Nile." 
Mr. Barry's thought process isn't as flighty as it might seem. A large part of our political tradition as Americans revolves around the tension between local, state and national control and our tendency to side with the government closest to us, said Brian J. Nickerson, the director of the Michaelian Institute for Public Policy at Pace University. 
In terms of local identity, Mr. Nickerson said that Westchester's is strong. "People like to affiliate themselves with Westchester," he said. "It has cachet. People are willing to pay for their identification with that." 
Mr. Nickerson, however, added a note of caution. There is a lack of empirical data on how much self-sufficiency might cost. And there is the question of competency. Could our new governor, say, Andrew J. Spano, administer federal programs? Keep highways? Deliver services? 
"It would probably be immediate chaos as we try to deal with these enormous issues without the state's benefit of economies of scale," Mr. Nickerson said, adding, "Westchester County would, in theory, have the means to support a variety of services unlike, say, Herkimer County."
In terms of the procedures in place to guide us to statehood, it might be hopeless. "The counties were created by the state," said Mark Hansen, a spokesman for the New York State Senate, "and there is no process for a county to secede and form their own state. You simply can't." The fact that achieving statehood would be such a hill to climb means the concept hasn't received the attention it deserves, said Kelly Jones, a spokesman for the Coalition Against Unfair Taxes and Spending. 
But in a day when action heroes can breeze into office as governors, some clever soul might be able to do it. 
Mr. Barry can't wait. "What's the date for our revolution?"
Not so fast, cautioned Mr. Jones. "Don't forget that we'd be the ones stuck with the Medicaid responsibilities then," he said, before figuring a grand way around it: "I guess we could just shift 25 percent of it down to the local governments. 
"But, then, guess what? We're right back where we started." 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (93%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICAID (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Politics and Government

PERSON: Marek Fuchs

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



706 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: DEVELOPMENT; 
Two? Two Museums For Children?

BYLINE:  By MARC FERRIS

DATELINE: Rye 

 BODY:
TWO separate plans for children's museums have surfaced in Westchester, one in White Plains that is on a developer's drawing boards and one in Rye that is a gleam in the eye of a young nonprofit group. Both have a kind of official backing, and one -- or even both -- could be realized, taking Westchester from a county with no children's museums to a county with two of them. 
 In association with the mayor's office in White Plains, a plan has been presented by a Connecticut developer to build a 21,000-square-foot museum on Mamaroneck Avenue across from the new City Center. The museum would be part of a complex that will include retail stores and a sports academy, according to current proposals. 
 The other plan comes from a group called the Westchester Children's Museum, which incorporated as a nonprofit entity in 2001 and is chartered by the New York State Board of Regents. The group is negotiating with the county government to renovate the old bathhouse buildings at Playland in Rye for a museum. 
Despite the enthusiasm that is expected among parents who want another place to take their children for educational and entertainment opportunities, opinion is divided over whether there is room for both. 
"It's tough out there for children's museums," said Donna Sawyer, spokeswoman for the Association of Children's Museums, based in Washington "Fund-raising is a bear, but there seems to be capacity in most communities for multiple children's venues." She noted that the District of Columbia supports two institutions. The group has 215-member organizations with 80 more in development. 
New York City is home to three children's museums; there are others in Poughkeepsie, Norwalk, Conn., and Nassau County, and another is planned for Suffolk County. 
Last week, Rosie O'Donnell floated the idea of opening a children's museum in the old Tappan Zee Playhouse building in Nyack to house the Hudson Valley Children's Museum in Rockland County, which closed in February after financing dried up.
In contrast to traditional museums, which are collections-based, children's museums are visitor-centered and stress hands-on learning and experiential activities, Ms. Sawyer said. Attendance at children's museums has tripled since 1991 to 31 million visitors last year. The Westchester Children's Museum group commissioned its first feasibility study five years ago when it surveyed teachers at 69 elementary schools in the county. Since then, the group has conducted several focus group and market research studies, said Quay Watkins, president of the museum's board of directors. Besides tapping the professional expertise of the board, they have received in-kind legal consultation, accounting, graphic design and grant writing services. 
The board is changing from a volunteer organization to a professional one and is looking to hire the group's first employee, an administrative assistant, Ms. Watkins said. It has hired a Brooklyn company, Exhibit A Design Group, to develop a conceptual plan to shape the exhibits and programming, and has retained Manhattan-based BKSK Architects to assess the viability of the 37,000-square-foot Playland site. 
Its logo, which features a child leaping over a velvet rope (the "M" in Museum), led the group to adopt the tag line "Leap In."
The organization has so far raised $600,000 and recently hired the fund-raising consultants, Community Counseling Service, based in Manhattan, to start its capital campaign. Construction costs are estimated at $14 million, Ms. Watkins said, and the group would like to have another $6 million on hand for at least two years of operating costs and an endowment. 
"We're trying hard to develop a business plan and look toward operating an institution, not just opening it," said Corinne Zola, a board member. "Nonprofits are experiencing a tough time so we're looking to ensure that we have revenue streams so we can make this a real resource."
Revenue would be generated by grants, memberships, private donations, admission fees, birthday parties and event rentals, a gift shop, as we;; as investment income from the endowment, said Watkins said. 
The group has looked at sites all over the county and considered building a home for the museum from the ground up. But after County Executive Andrew J. Spano's office contacted the group last year about the possibility of moving into the Playland site, the board members became enamored with the location. 
One potential snag was the county's legal requirement that leases between the county and private parties looking to occupy county structures remain in effect for five years with a five-year renewal option, which hinders a nonprofit organization's ability to attract grants and donations. Exceptions require authorization from the state. Last summer, Gov. George E. Pataki approved a potential 30-year deal with the museum, if the parties eventually agree on the terms. 
The sprawling, dilapidated building, situated along the boardwalk at Playland, would require asbestos and lead paint removal. It has remained vacant for about 40 years.
"We have to renovate the building anyway, and we thought the museum would be a great fit," Mr. Spano said. "The long-term lease allows them to amortize their construction costs and it saves taxpayers money."
In White Plains, Mayor Joseph M. Delfino floated the idea of a children's museum in his economic revitalization plan for downtown White Plains, released in 2000. During the project's design phase, developer Tony Nardozzi of the New York Connecticut Development Corp., based in Stamford, which would undertake the project for the property's owners, Silverman Realty and the Minskoff Realty Group, discovered the existence of the Westchester Children's Museum group and contacted board members, who looked at plans for the site six months ago. 
The proposed development would include a 50,000 square foot Westchester Sports Academy, akin to a mini-Chelsea Piers, perhaps a bowling alley, a national children's- or sports-oriented retail outlet, a family restaurant, and a 21,000 square foot space for a museum. 
"We threw them a twist, but we think this would be a better location than Playland and they would be able to move in much quicker and at far less cost," said Mr. Nardozzi, the developer of the White Plains site. He declined to reveal the proposed rent he offered to the group.
The exhibits in development by the Westchester Children's Museum group can be installed anywhere, said Alix Laager, vice president of the board, who is responsible for exhibitions and programming. 
"We haven't ruled out White Plains and Playland is not 100%, so we are remaining flexible" she said.
Yet board members say their studies reveal "a clear preference for the Playland facility," said Ms. Watkins. "We are still being approached by various organizations and developers and we continue to receive those inquiries and follow to make sure we have fully exhausted all available options," she said.
The group's feasibility study determined that long-term costs to rent the White Plains site would be more expensive than the Playland deal, she added.
Another drawback to the White Plains site is that it is smaller than the bathhouses and "we wouldn't have institutional ownership or identity," said Ms. Zola. "We'd like to create a unique destination site. In White Plains we'd be in a big center where we don't know who our neighbors would be." 
Mr. Nardozzi would clearly like to see the existing group administer the planned site in White Plains, which he claims is more centrally situated, and will have more year-round activities for those attending the museum. But if Westchester Children's Museum declines the offer, he says, he plans to develop the museum site anyway and find another group to run it, although he has no potential takers now. 
"It would hurt one or both of us," he said. "There isn't room for two children's museums, in my opinion. It's hard to survive, especially in this climate." 
Regina Rodwell-Bell, founder of the Hudson Valley Children's Museum that is now closed said, "Having two nonprofit children's museums in competing against each other in one county is a challenge." 
Ms. Watkins, however, said she would welcome the competition. "Our intention is to be the premiere children's museum in the area," she said "but the more opportunities children have to experience fun, exciting, stimulating learning environments the better." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alix Laager, left, and Quay Watkins, of the Westchester Children's Museum, pause at the Playland site they would like to see as a museum. Far left: Mayor Joseph M. Delfino and Tony Nardozzi stand on Mamaroneck Avenue near a proposed museum site. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); COUNTIES (76%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); FOCUS GROUPS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (71%); MAYORS (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); MARKET RESEARCH (60%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (60%); RETAILERS (54%) Museums; Children and Youth

ORGANIZATION: Westchester Children's Museum

PERSON: Marc Ferris

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) White Plains (NY); Rye (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



707 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2268 words

HEADLINE: In a Land of Plenty, Plenty in Need 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER

DATELINE: PORT CHESTER 

 BODY:
THE week before Thanksgiving, about 20 Hispanic women gathered in a church basement here to celebrate the holiday early with a potluck lunch -- not of turkey, but of rice, chicken, empanadas and tamales. At gatherings like this one, these women, most of them immigrants who are unemployed, get together to learn the basics of everyday life in their new land and to share their stories of need, as well as their strategies for the balancing act that is their lives: making do for their families on their husbands' paychecks, typically the wages of a laborer, with perhaps a small supplement of a few dollars a week from the wives. 
 In the same week, in Mount Vernon, 93-year-old Rose Hacker boarded a van for adult day care. Mrs. Hacker, too, is needy, but in a different way: the six hours she spends at the day-care center provides a respite for her full-time aide and is key to keeping her at home rather than in a nursing home. 
 On the same day, in Yonkers, Carla Timberlake, a 35-year-old single mother of two, was working at the after-school program at a church, where she is paid $10 an hour for her 20 hours a week. Mrs. Timberlake, who has been on public assistance for years, has undeniable needs as well: when she started her job, in September, she fought to retain part of the public assistance that she lost as a result. 
In Westchester County, the average income is more than $60,000 a year, and the median home price is pushing $600,000. But amid the good fortune, a wealth of need exists. The need comes in all colors, ages and ethnic origins, and in its growth and its changing character, that need reflects new realities in the county. 
"The face of neediness in Westchester is changing," said Theresa Kump, a spokeswoman with Family Services of Westchester. 
Among the needy, most commonly mentioned are three groups. Westchester has one of the fastest-growing elderly populations in the country, with one out of every five residents over the age of 60, and more than a third of them living on less than $25,000 a year, according to county figures. At the same time, an influx of immigrants, primarily Hispanics, is presenting new challenges for aid organizations. A third substantial group, according to officials of aid organizations, is the working poor, who are becoming, as one put it, the "working ultrapoor." 
The numbers of needy are also growing, with a startling rise from 1990 to 2000. One measure is the level of poverty. The number of people living in poverty in the county jumped to 78,967 in 2000, nearly9 percent of the population, from 58,164 in 1990, which was 7 percent of the population, according to county figures. This represented a 36 percent increase in one decade, according to census figures provided by the county. In 1980, the number of people below the poverty level was 59,896, about 7.1 percent of the population, and in 1970 it was 54,498 people, or 6.1 percent of the population.
Andrew J. Spano, the Westchester County executive, said the biggest issue from the county's point of view is older residents. Care for the elderly is increasingly expensive, he said, and the county is forced to bear more and more of the burden. Also, the baby boom is just starting to age, meaning the worst is yet to come, he said. "Our biggest challenge is going to be with seniors," he said. "The senior population is growing and living longer. They need services."
Yet as a group, the elderly who need help are hard to define because they often live alone and are uncomfortable asking for help. The elderly may not live below the poverty level, but they still have needs that must be met.
"They're almost an invisible part of the population," Ms. Kump said.
Often, she said, something complicated happens: for example, an older person will have to make a choice between paying the rent or buying medication. As a result, he might stop taking medicine in order to save money and end up in the hospital.
Frank Bentivegna, 72, and his wife, Claire, 71, of Yonkers, know what it is like to make such choices. Mr. Bentivegna has a history of heart and prostate problems, and his wife is a disabled diabetic whose health issues have required everything from heart and spinal surgery to a hip replacement.
Mrs. Bentivegna qualifies for long-term care and Medicaid, but the couple's $1,200 a month retirement income does not allow Mr. Bentivegna to receive benefits that would help pay for the nine medicines he takes daily. Recently, when his prescriptions outstripped his earnings, the Westchester Family Services' Sunshine Fund provided $340 to help bridge the gap. 
"We don't want to lose out and not be able to pay our electric bill, which is skyrocketing," Mr. Bentivegna said.
Between 1960 and 2000, the county's over-65 population grew to 128,964 from 74,828, according to county figures. The over-65 group now makes up 14 percent of the county's population. By 2020, that group is expected to increase by 30 percent as a result of the aging of the baby boom. The fastest-growing segment of the county's population is those over 85, which increased 24 percent between 1990 and 2000.
"The numbers are really in a way kind of scary because we're not ready for this," said Susan Wayne, vice president of services with Family Services of Westchester. "We don't have enough assisted-living facilities. We don't have enough home health-care services, especially for what they're expecting to occur when we reach 2020."
MAE CARPENTER, commissioner for the county's Department of Senior Programs and Services, said older people tend to stay in the county in their later years. Some go to Florida, for example, and then return. That means returning at a time when they may be most in need of services.
In addition, Ms. Carpenter said she hears stories from elderly people who are still helping their children to get their feet on the ground. "One senior citizen 80 years told me she and her husband were still helping their children pay off education loans," she said.
She said that many of the county's elderly are middle-class citizens who sold their homes, downsized and invested, only to find their investments reduced when the bottom fell out of the stock market.
"Over 37,000 senior households had less than the income needed to afford median rent," she said.
There are waiting lists of up to 10 years for federally sponsored housing for older people, Ms. Carpenter said, as well as waiting lists for the home-services program. 
This year, the county has received 114,000 requests for county services available for the elderly, more than four times as many over the 1998 figure. The services being sought range from home care to housing programs to transportation and utility payment assistance. There has also been a sharp increase in the number of older people taking part in quality-of-life programs. Some 17,000 people, 10 times as many from five years ago, have signed up for county programs providing health information, exercise sessions and medication management. 
But Ms. Carpenter said her budget to meet these needs has not increased accordingly. To make up the difference, her department is focusing on cost cutting and a variety of government and private partnerships to serve the growing population. 
Outside groups like Family Services of Westchester are also helping to take up the slack by offering increased services, many of which are focused on keeping the elderly out of nursing homes, which is increasingly expensive. 
Patricia Sperber, who is 66 and uses a wheelchair, is doing her best to stay in her own apartment in Ossining. But it's a continuing challenge as she battles a variety of health issues from osteoporosis to emphysema.
She has home health care, which helps her to remain at home, but the issues are constant. For example, recently forced to use a wheelchair, she was having trouble maneuvering it down the hallway of her home because of the narrowness of the hall. On limited funds, she knew that making alterations was impossible.
But she found help through the Sunshine Fund, which is the brainchild of Stanley Schear at Family Services of Westchester, which paid the $975 to modify the hallway.
As officials address issues related to the elderly population, resources are also being stretched by an increasing population of immigrants, many of them Hispanic. Between 1970 and 2000, the number of Hispanics in the county grew to 111,309 from 23,359, the population increasing more than 67 percent between 1990 and 2000, according to county figures. The new arrivals, some undocumented and often speaking little or no English, need to try to make a new life for themselves. When they find work, it may be in low-paying laborer positions, with little job security. 
Arriving in a county where housing prices are among the highest in the state, recent immigrants are almost certain to have difficulty making ends meet.
Martha Lopez-Hanratty, program administrator for Hispanic Affairs Westchester County, said that while the number of Hispanics living in Westchester is about 144,000, according to county figures, the true number is almost certainly higher because many newcomers and undocumented immigrants are uncounted. The county figures show that Hispanics are about 16 percent of the total population, but she estimates they may make up as much as 25 percent of the total population. Language, education, work and housing are the needs that are at the top of most immigrants' lists of needs. But the needs may also involve mental-health issues that come from families being split between countries, and depression resulting from the isolation of being a new immigrant.
At Latino Connections, a program for Hispanic women in Port Chester, the women gather every Friday and receive a wide range of information, from tips on how to be better parents to nutrition to domestic violence. They make crafts and provide support for one another.
Only a few of the women speak English, and most are looking for work, but language creates a barrier.
Lelea Barajas, whose children are 15, 13, 4 and 2, lives on whatever her husband makes a week working as a roofer or painter. When the income is steady, it is enough to pay the $1,350 a month rent on their two-bedroom Port Chester apartment and cover other expenses. But in bad weather or when work is slow, she must rely on the money she has put aside for such occasions and hope it stretches far enough -- or come up with a stopgap solution such as selling the tamales that she makes in her own kitchen.
Although she would like to work, her command of English is limited and jobs are hard to find. She has taken English classes, but, she says, at 35, "it's too hard to learn."
Sandra Garcia, who runs the program out of the Summerfield Church basement, says it is difficult to understand why so many Hispanic immigrants continue to arrive in Port Chester, particularly since the rents are very expensive. Often, she said, families end up living two to a one-room apartment.
She said she has been working with two families that recently arrived in the area.
"It's hard for them to find a job," she said. "When they do, the salaries are nothing."
Traditionally, cities in the southern part of the county have been home to many of those in need. In the 1950's and 60's, Yonkers, with Mulford Gardens, a housing project dating to 1939, saw its poor population -- predominantly African-American -- grow along with those in New Rochelle and Mount Vernon.
Irwin Stein, a co-founder of Family Services of Westchester in 1954 and its sole caseworker initially, said the greatest needs in the county at that time were housing and adequate income.
In the 1980's, the homeless took center stage as housing prices increased and rentals became less available. Social workers said they began to see more women heading households and drugs playing a significant role in creating need later in the decade. 
Poverty continues to grow. Those on the front lines say they are seeing greater numbers seeking assistance, including more immigrants and more working poor.
Rosa Boone, who heads the Coalition for the Hungry and Homeless, said among those standing in the soup lines this year are people who lost their jobs as a result of the economic downturn and the ripples from the September 2001 terrorist attacks, including one family that used to be a benefactor to her program.
At Hope Community Services, a service organization with a food pantry and soup kitchen in New Rochelle, Anne Carey-Colorado, the director, said some clients are homeless in the traditional sense living at the train station or in the park, she is seeing more families sharing spaces in a garage or a basement because they can no longer afford the rents. She said the pantry has registered 400 new families this year. 
While poverty is still most prevalent in cities in the lower part of the county, it is expanding in notable pockets around Peekskill, Ossining and Port Chester.
"What I see in our neighborhood is not so much homeless, not so much people sleeping on the street," said the Rev. Debra Avery, minister at Good Shepherd Presbyterian Church in Yonkers. "What we have is the working ultrapoor. It's gone beyond the working poor." As for the welfare-to-work program, she said, "it isn't working all that well here."
Ms. Timberlake works in Good Shepherd's after-school program, and she might agree with that assessment. Just a month into her $10-an-hour, 20-hour-a-week job, she lost many of her public-assistance benefits. She is now fighting to get them back.
"We're not starving and we're not dirt poor," she said. "It's just that sometimes I can't make ends meet."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rose Hacker, top, gets help from aide, Pearline Harris. Above: Ana Hernandez, left, holding her daughter, Alondra Gomez, takes part, with Ana Brito, at an early Thanksgiving lunch in Port Chester. Carla Timberlake, right, meets a child enrolled in the Good Shepherd afterschool program in Yonkers. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 6); Dorothy Webb, above, receives food from Meals on Wheels, delivered by Anthony Bush, right. In Ossining, a van gives elderly residents a ride to the supermarket, left. Below: Women take part in a potluck, pre-Thanksgiving lunch in Port Chester. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 6) Chart: "Rising Property"The poverty rate in Westchester County has increased in the last decade, possibly from a growing elderly population and an influx of low-wage Hispanic workers. Westchester Residents in Poverty2000 -- 78,9671990 -- 58,164 Westchester Residents Ages 65 and Older2000 -- 128,9641990 -- 126,0261980 -- 114,1591970 -- 94,9311960 -- 74,828 Spanish-Speaking Households Where English Is Spoken Less Than "Very Well"2000 -- 63,7241990 -- 35,863 (Source by Census Bureau; Westchester County Department of Planning)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); POVERTY RATES (87%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); REFUGEES (77%); FAMILY SERVICES (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); ADULT DAY CARE (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (73%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (67%); TRENDS (67%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (66%); AGING TRENDS (66%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (52%); HOME PRICES (50%) Social Conditions and Trends; Aged; Hispanic-Americans; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: Barbara Whitaker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



708 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Terror Attacks and Politics Put Turkey's Military on Edge 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Shortly after two truck bombs rocked Istanbul on Nov. 20, soldiers appeared at the city's strategic intersections and bridges, a startling show of force in a country where the military has stepped in to change the government four times in the past four decades.
 But the military was not taking over this time. The deployment, which surprised the government as much as people on the street, was apparently an error. 
 "It was a matter of miscommunication," Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan explained during an interview at his Istanbul residence. The military, he said, had put garrisons across the country on alert in case looting followed the bombings, and overenthusiastic troops in Istanbul took it as a signal to go into the streets. "After a warning by the governor's office, they returned to their bases," he said. 
For many people, though, the incident showed that despite the government's effort to subjugate the generals to civilian control, Turkey's military remains the powerful, independent and ever present patron of Turkish politics that it has been since founding the country 80 years ago. 
Turkey wants to join the European Union, and one of the most challenging conditions the European alliance has set for the country is that its military get out of politics. But Turkey's generals are apparently not yet accustomed to waiting for politicians to give orders. 
"The military obviously cannot declare publicly that they are against this because they were for Westernization since the early 20th century," said Eser Karakas, an economist and outspoken critic in Istanbul, "but they are in big trouble now."
Turkey's military, the second largest among North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries -- after that of the United States -- has long steered the country under the secular, Western-looking ideology articulated and personified by the father of modern Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. It has watched like an attentive parent while successive governments fumbled with democracy and has stepped in at times to adjust the rules and restart the game along the prescribed, pro-Western path.
The last time the military put soldiers on the streets was in 1997, when it forced Mr. Erdogan's mentor, Necmettin Erbakan, a pro-Islamic prime minister, to step down. The generals then jailed Mr. Erdogan and barred him from politics to curb the Islamic movement Mr. Erbakan had inspired.
But the military kept a low profile during national elections last year, in part to persuade the European Union that it has stilled its hand in politics. That allowed Mr. Erdogan's party to take control of the government with the strongest mandate of any political party in 50 years.
The new government quickly changed the laws banning Mr. Erdogan from politics so that he could assume his place as prime minister.
In July, the government passed new legislation that stripped executive powers from the National Security Council, the military's primary mechanism for exerting control over political affairs. The council now meets every other month instead of monthly -- as it had since the country's 1980 military coup.
A general still leads the council, but Mr. Erdogan said it was only a matter of time before that, too, changed. "In order to achieve a successful transition, we have agreed to do it this way," he said, adding that the military has supported all of the European-inspired reforms. "We are in harmony."
Many people applaud the generals for acting as guardians of the country while its political institutions matured. They say the military is now ready to yield control in return for European Union membership, a sentiment cautiously echoed by the generals publicly.
"If there hadn't been a military role in Turkish politics, there would be no democracy in Turkey today," said Seyfettin Seymen, a former Turkish defense attache in Washington who retired from the air force as a major general two years ago. "But now we believe democracy is established and strong in Turkey and so there is no longer a reason to stand in the political arena." In fact, Turkey's military is one of the main assets that the country has to offer Europe.
The union is trying to fashion a security and defense policy, independent of the United States, out of its anemic militaries. But only Britain and to some extent France have armed forces capable of carrying out modern warfare operations.
Turkey, with half a million men under arms and the largest fleet of F-16 fighter jets in the world besides the United States, would give European defense immediate teeth as well as strategic reach into areas where conflict is most likely to occur.
But it is no secret that the generals are apprehensive. Shortly before the country's Oct. 29 holiday to celebrate the birth of the republic, Turkey's largest pro-military newspaper ran a headline that read, "The Military Is Uncomfortable." The article was about the generals' uneasiness with Mr. Erdogan's Islamic tendencies, but the headline was a reference to language used during the 1960 military coup.
Analysts say the changes, so far, are superficial and that the military's power in Turkish society remains broad and deep, even if it is less obvious on the surface.
"The military is resisting letting the country become truly democratic," said Ahmet Altan, author of a book about the Turkish military. He contends that on critical policies like the politically divided island of Cyprus, the generals still call the shots. "Most states have an army, but in Turkey, the army has a state," he added.
For one thing, the military has more money than any other state institution. Turkey spends about $10 billion a year on defense, representing the largest percentage of gross domestic product for military spending among the NATO countries. The military receives billions more from its interests in dozens of companies.
Many people contend that the recent terrorist violence has put the military back on edge and Mr. Erdogan's government on the defensive. They charge that his administration relaxed pressure on Islamic militants over the past year and worry that more violence could provoke the military back into politics.
"Senior members of government are anxious that if those attacks continue, they might be forced to call for emergency rule, handing power to the military," Mr. Altan said.
General Seymen said the military was watching Mr. Erdogan. "Although they say they have changed, they have to smile to their voters, who are mostly hard-core believers in Islam," the general said.
"We'll see," he added.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Turks Arrest Bombing Suspect
(By The New York Times), ISTANBUL, Nov. 29 -- The Turkish police have captured a man suspected of planning and ordering the suicide attack against one of the synagogues here on Nov. 15, the official Anatolian Agency reported Saturday. The man, who was arrested as he tried to cross the border to Iran, is accused of having planned the attack against the Beth Israel synagogue and of ordering the bombers to carry it out, the Istanbul police said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Turkish Army officers at a funeral last week for two police officers killed in the truck bombings on Nov. 20 in Istanbul. The military officers wore photos of the policemen and stickers that said, "We will smash terror." (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); GOVERNORS (69%); RELIGION (67%); LEGISLATION (61%) Politics and Government; Terrorism; Bombs and Explosives; Looting

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%) European Union

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (79%) Craig S Smith; Recep Tayyip (Pres) Erdogan

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (97%) TURKEY (99%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) Turkey; Europe; Istanbul (Turkey); Turkey

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



709 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns; 
Move Over, New Jersey. New Trend Puts the Con in Connecticut.

BYLINE:  By RICHARD LEZIN JONES

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn. 

 BODY:
IT may have been just wishful thinking, but from his humble perch along a worn-down stretch of Main Street here -- where the burglar bars in abandoned storefronts protect empty showrooms -- Emanuel Cannon swore that his beloved, bedraggled city was on the verge of something resembling a renaissance.
 "Yeah," said Mr. Cannon, 56, a manager at the One Stop News and Deli. "Things were going all right, the mayor was doing good. Then you started hearing all this stuff about bribes and racketeering." 
 In Connecticut? Who knew? It turned out that Bridgeport's former mayor, Joseph P. Ganim, was shaking down contractors who wanted to do business with the city, raking in home renovations, expensive wines and a half-million dollars in cash.
Mr. Ganim, convicted in March on 16 counts of corruption, is now serving a nine-year prison term. Mr. Cannon's dreams of a rebirth for Bridgeport, however fanciful, were delayed. And the city's woes -- a high unemployment rate, soaring taxes, dismal schools -- continued.
But Mr. Ganim's transgressions may be helping to give otherwise refined Connecticut an unexpected and unwanted mark of distinction in the region: the state with the most dysfunctional politicians.
For years, New Jersey's dominance in government corruption -- as is the case with its cranberry production and proliferation of jug-handle turns on the highway -- has been widely accepted. There was a period over the past few years when prosecutors averaged an indictment a month. But to hear political scientists and other observers tell it, a series of high-profile corruption cases in Connecticut may be challenging the Garden State's supremacy in ignominy.
"It may not be the classic, New Jersey style of corruption, with the mobsters, the bold suits and guys with gold chains driving big cars," said Christopher Barnes, the associate director of the University of Connecticut's Center for Survey Research and Analysis. "But what's happening here is something all its own.
Mr. Barnes was referring to an earlier model of malfeasance -- with apologies to Tony Soprano, the mob's influence on government corruption is thought to have waned considerably -- and noted that today's scandals are driven largely by "pay to play" schemes, in which officials dangle lucrative contracts and other public work for bribes.
Just consider some cases that have unfolded in recent months. There's Paul J. Silvester, the former state treasurer, who 10 days ago was sentenced to 51 months in prison for accepting bribes. Waterbury's former mayor, Philip A. Giordano, was sentenced in June to 37 years in jail after wiretappers learned that he was having sex with two girls, ages 8 and 10. Lawrence E. Alibozek, a former aide to Gov. John G. Rowland, admitted to accepting bribes for helping to put the fix in for state contracts.
In response to cases like those, Connecticut's chief state's attorney, Christopher L. Morano, last week announced the creation of a toll-free number -- (888) 742-2726, reachable only in Connecticut -- that allows callers to report corruption anonymously.
Despite appearances, Mr. Barnes said that the recent cases were not necessarily a sign of an increase in corruption, but may simply be the most recent crest of waves of official misconduct that have ebbed and flowed here for decades.
ALTHOUGH he noted that most corruption still centers on cash bribes or expensive gifts, Mr. Barnes said that Mr. Giordano's transgressions belonged to a different realm. "There's been the disgusting category with Giordano, that's a whole other level of corruption," Mr. Barnes said. The former mayor was first singled out over suspicions about the cost of projects like sewage treatment plants and animal shelters. 
"They made more money per square foot on this dog pound," he said. "It's like if Imelda Marcos had a dog pound."
Mr. Barnes said that he wasn't sure how effective the toll-free number might be. But he said that it might yet yield a few surprise scandals in a state where he noted that misconduct is unexpected for other reasons besides Connecticut's modishness and manners. Said Mr. Barnes: "People joke that the state's just too boring to have this kind of corruption." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); BRIBERY (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SENTENCING (88%); JAIL SENTENCING (88%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); ETHICS (76%); INDICTMENTS (75%); EXTORTION (75%); ORGANIZED CRIME (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLITICS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (52%); BERRY FARMING (50%) Ethics; Politics and Government

PERSON: Richard Lezin Jones

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) Connecticut; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



710 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Rural Haitians Are Vanguard In AIDS Battle 

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: CANGE, Haiti 

 BODY:
In the cool mist of daybreak, hundreds of villagers fanned out across the forsaken reaches of this nation's remote interior, fording rivers swollen by torrential rains, slogging through muddy cornfields and clambering up slippery mountainsides to reach people sickened by AIDS.
 At each home, they handed out the little white pills that have brought their neighbors, wasted by the disease, back to robust life. 
 "If the medicines weren't here, I'd be dead," said Manesse Gracia, 39, a mother of six who was plump in a workday dress the color of orange sherbet. "My children would live in destitution. My husband is a farmer, but the earth gives back nothing." 
Mrs. Gracia is part of a pioneering program run here by a Boston-based nonprofit group, Partners in Health, that has become an influential model in the frenetic global race to expand drug treatment in dozens of poor countries.
More than two decades into the pandemic, 22 million people have died of AIDS, and 40 million people are infected with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. Millions will perish next year unless they get the medicines.
"Bringing antiretroviral therapy to all who need it is the most medically challenging task that the world has ever taken on," said Dr. Richard Feachem, executive director of the Geneva-based Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
The fund has approved $800 million for AIDS treatment, but that is only enough to supply antiretroviral drugs to just 700,000 people in five years.
The World Bank is increasing support, and the United States Congress is close to appropriating about $2 billion, more than half of it for treatment. 
No program to treat people in the poorest countries has more intrigued experts than the one started in Haiti by Partners in Health -- which has succeeded by enlisting help from hundreds among Haiti's vast pool of unemployed and underemployed workers.
It is the rainy season now. So each morning and evening, 700 villagers strike out across dirt roads turned into a morass of mud and dung to deliver medicines to people with AIDS and tuberculosis. They tramp through muck and wade through streams on foot; a lucky few sit atop mules or donkeys.
Margareth Guerrier, wearing a jaunty, broad-brimmed hat, set out on a recent morning from her small concrete house, threading her way past squatters' shacks up a steep, treacherously slick mountain.
At the top, she stopped at a small house and took the AIDS medicines from a black case slung over her shoulder. A 9-year-old girl named Fanise, ready for school in a navy dress, swallowed her pills dutifully as her grandmother looked on.
Then Mrs. Guerrier walked on to deliver pills to another grandmother, two mothers and a father. "There were some among them who seemed more dead than alive," she said. "When they start taking their medicines, they get better."
The AIDS treatment program here, one of the first of its kind in the world, was started by Dr. Paul Farmer, an American, and the group he founded, Partners in Health. It began giving antiretroviral drugs to patients here in 1999, when such efforts were virtually unknown.
"We didn't do it to be a model program," said Dr. Farmer, 44, a Harvard medical professor and anthropologist, who is also the subject of a recent book, "Mountains Beyond Mountains," by Tracy Kidder. "We did it because people were croaking."
Adeline Mercon, who tested positive for H.I.V. in 1991, took a terrible turn for the worse in 1999. When Dr. Farmer hiked through jagged hills to her home, he found her bedridden and withered to about half her usual weight. Her father drew him outside to the rickety stoop and showed him the planks he had gathered to build her coffin.
Dr. Farmer promised to return with medicines to save her. Back in Boston, he scavenged drugs from AIDS patients, doctors and clinics. Partners in Health bought more with money donated by Thomas J. White, a retired Boston businessman, and raised yet more cash by selling its headquarters in Cambridge.
"We couldn't get anyone to support us," Dr. Farmer said. "In 1998, 1999 and 2000, we went to Unaids, the World Health Organization and the World Bank and they said treatment is not cost effective or sustainable. We went to some of the drug companies and asked, 'Can we have medicines?' Every single one turned us down."
In the early days, Dr. Farmer carried the pills back to Haiti in suitcases.
On Oct. 28, 1999, a shrunken Mrs. Mercon, weighing only 69 pounds, was brought to the hospital here on a stretcher. She was put on the drugs. "I haven't been sick since," said Mrs. Mercon, 37, who now weighs 120 pounds.
The Spartan model of care used by Partners in Health was born of necessity, but its very spareness is now seen as a virtue by many experts who want the scarce dollars for treatment to stretch as far as possible. Doctors here grafted AIDS treatment efforts onto the existing program for tuberculosis control.
AIDS patients, who will have to take the drugs daily for the rest of their lives, are visited in their homes every morning and evening by a health worker who hands out pills and watches as they are gulped down. Ensuring that the medicines are taken properly reduces the risk that drug-resistant strains of H.I.V. will emerge.
One of the biggest obstacles to rapid expansion of treatment in poor countries is the extreme scarcity of doctors, nurses and high-tech equipment. And the program here has minimized reliance on them. Generally, there are no lab tests done once treatment begins. The only monitor is a scale to weigh patients monthly.
Peasants have been trained to dispense the medicines, draw blood, take X-rays, clean bedpans, measure vital signs and spread the word about condoms preventing H.I.V. infection. Most of the workers who visit patients' homes are paid a small stipend of $38 a month.
Last year, Partners in Health won a $13 million grant from the Global Fund -- money now being used to build clinics, laboratories and drug warehouses, and to install generators and satellite dishes in a region largely bereft of electricity and phones.
While other countries can copy the Partners in Health model, they cannot clone Dr. Farmer, a charismatic and chatty healer, and the small, idealistic band of American doctors he has brought to Haiti.
As Dr. Farmer, tall and whippet thin, drove through a village one recent day, jouncing over boulders and crevasses, a low murmur wafted in the window along with the dust. "Paul, Paul, Paul," chanted the women peddling wares at the roadside.
Dr. Farmer has been here since he was in his 20's. He lives most of the year in Cange, a squatter settlement, and regularly commutes about 35 miles -- three hours over some of the worst roads in the world -- to reach the airport in Port au Prince before flying on to Boston and his teaching job at Harvard.
The example set by Dr. Farmer has helped inspire a similar dedication in Haitian colleagues.
"When I was in my family planning residency, I heard about this white doctor who visits sick people in their homes," said Dr. Roland Desire. "I'm from a peasant family myself. I came to see what he was doing." Dr. Farmer listened to the young doctor, choking back tears. 
He had made this recent visit to the group's clinic in Lascahobas hobbling on crutches. In August, Dr. Farmer broke his leg in a bad fall while hiking uphill in a drenching rain to reach a patient. Surgeons sawed his thigh bone in half and put in a titanium plate to repair it.
With his slight build and boyish face, Dr. Desire, 31, looks more like a laid-back high school student in his jeans and T-shirt than a briskly efficient doctor. 
Among those who had come from great distances to see him in Lascahobas were two women -- symbols of how far Haiti still has to go and of how far it has come.
Imitane Pierre had brought her baby daughter Francesca from Port au Prince. Both are H.I.V.-positive, and Francesca had developed painful lesions on her face. Hospitals in the capital had turned them away because the mother was too poor to pay. After two weeks in the clinic in Lascahobas, the bright-eyed girl had gotten better. But now she and her mother had to return to Ms. Pierre's other children in Port au Prince, where treatment programs are not yet established.
"We send them home, but who will take care of them?" Dr. Desire asked. "There's no one."
Later that day, the doctor turned to Ipoline Occeus, 26. He had to break the news that she was H.I.V.-positive but he coupled it with hope, because she lives in the area served by the clinic. 
"You can die from it," she whispered.
In most developing countries, Dr. Desire's diagnosis would indeed have been a death sentence. But he replied with the words that promised her life: We have the medicines. We can treat you.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Paul Farmer, founder of Partners in Health, with an H.I.V. patient in Cange, Haiti. The group began giving antiretroviral drugs to patients in Haiti in 1999, when such efforts were virtually unknown.; Before leaving for school one recent morning, a 9-year-old girl named Fanise took anti-AIDS medication brought by Mrs. Guerrier, one of a small army of villagers in Haiti that delivers medications to the poor.; Margareth Guerrier is one of about 700 Haitian villagers who make regular rounds, mostly on foot, delivering drugs for AIDS and tuberculosis. (Photographs by ANGEL FRANCO/The New York Times)(pg. 20) Map of Haiti highlighting Cange: Dr. Paul Farmer founded a clinic in Cange, a squatter settlement. (pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (94%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); RIVERS (89%); WEATHER (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MALARIA (77%); TUBERCULOSIS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EPIDEMICS (77%); VIRUSES (76%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); APPROPRIATIONS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

ORGANIZATION: Partners in Health (Orgn)

PERSON: Celia W Dugger; Paul (Dr) Farmer

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) Haiti

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



711 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Trying to Keep a House She Signed Away

BYLINE:  By Terry Pristin

 BODY:
The four-family red brick house on 96th Street in East Flatbush where Mae Ruth Little has lived for more than three decades seems worn and frail these days, just like its 76-year-old owner. Paint is peeling off the walls, tiles are missing from the kitchen ceiling and the linoleum is cracked and faded.
 This being New York, however, the bedraggled appearance of Mrs. Little's house has not prevented it from being appraised at $360,000, more than 10 times the amount that she and her late husband paid for it in 1970. And Mrs. Little, who worked as a hotel chambermaid until failing eyesight forced her to retire in 1985, says she was astonished to learn during the summer that she no longer had title to the house. 
 Her lawyer, Pamela Sah, who works with the Foreclosure Prevention Project for Seniors at South Brooklyn Legal Services, says that Mrs. Little is the victim of a type of fraud called deed theft, which has been turning up with increasing frequency in recent months.
In a lawsuit filed last month in Kings County Supreme Court, Mrs. Little accused Mendy Amsel, the owner of several properties in Brooklyn and northern New Jersey, of taking advantage of her advanced age, poor vision and lack of sophistication to steal her house by somehow getting her to sign over the deed to him.
Denying wrongdoing, Mr. Amsel said in court documents that Mrs. Little had sought his help because she was about to lose her home through foreclosure. At her request, he said, he agreed to pay off the arrears on her mortgage and allow her to live in the house rent-free for six months and then stay on as a tenant. Mr. Amsel said that Mrs. Little "knew exactly what she was doing." In a brief telephone interview, Schmuel D. Taub, Mr. Amsel's lawyer, described Mrs. Little as a "freeloader."
In interviews and court documents, however, Ms. Sah and Mrs. Little relate a complex and sometimes murky sequence of events that led to her losing her house. 
In 1995, Mrs. Little was approached by someone who offered to replace her windows, renovate her bathrooms and install a new roof. To finance these and other repairs, she was persuaded to take out a series of mortgages in ever-increasing amounts at high interest rates, altogether paying tens of thousands of dollars in transaction costs as each mortgage was rolled over into the next one. 
In 1999, she got a $200,000 mortgage from Equicredit , which went out of business last year. Equicredit, which specialized in loans to people with poor credit, charged her $14,300 in closing costs, Ms. Sah said. For a while, Mrs. Little kept up with her monthly payments of more than $1,700, but in 2000, she defaulted, and the house fell into foreclosure. Once the foreclosure became public record, dozens of brokers, consultants and other people approached her, Ms. Sah said.
"There were so many, I couldn't tell you how many or who," Mrs. Little said. "They were like ants. They would start at 9 in the morning and would go to 10 at night."
One broker referred her to a bank that offers so-called reverse mortgages, an option available to people 62 and over that might have enabled Mrs. Little to remain in her house until her death, Ms. Sah said. But while Mrs. Little's application was being processed, three men came to her house and told her she was no longer a homeowner.
Mrs. Little admits that her signature is on Mr. Amsel's deed, but she says she cannot explain how it wound up there and insists that she never knowingly gave him title to her house. Recently, Mr. Amsel has tried to evict Mrs. Little -- a clear sign, Ms. Sah said, that he had had no intention of helping her.
However the Little case is decided -- a trial date has been set for Dec. 17 -- advocates for the poor agree that deed theft is becoming common in New York.
"I've heard six accounts in the last three weeks," said Sarah Ludwig, the director of the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project, a nonprofit organization that promotes access to fair credit and now includes warnings about deed theft in its presentations.
She said that the six cases she has heard about all had one thing in common. "All these people were in financially precarious circumstances," she said. "They were people who had lived in their homes a long time, and were definitely trusting when they shouldn't have been."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mae Ruth Little says she doesn't recall signing away the deed to her home. She has filed a lawsuit to retain ownership of the house, where she has lived since 1970. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (55%) Housing; Foreclosures; Suits and Litigation; Mortgages; Aged; Housing

PERSON: Terry Pristin; Mae Ruth Little; Mendy Amsel; Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



712 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Repairing the System Of Local Governance 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The writer of your Nov. 23 Soapbox essay on New Jersey governance uses sweeping generalizations to conclude that savings are possible. 
He ignores the other side of the coin -- benefits. For instance, he says that consolidating school districts can save 29 percent in costs. I have analyzed a number of New Jersey school districts and found that the vast majority of cost (90 to 95 percent) is directly tied to teaching the students. The only way to save one-third of school costs would be to increase class size significantly, reduce the number of teachers and increase the span of supervision. 
 I strongly believe in economic efficiency. State government needs to make sure that the services it delivers are cost effective. However, supporting efficiency in government is not the same as dismantling or reducing government deliverables like education quality for the sake of reducing costs.
 Cheaper is not always better. 
 We have a number of analytical tools that can be used to determine cost-effectiveness. The results of this type of analysis should be discussed and debated, not political generalizations that appeal to our pocketbooks and ignore the larger impact on our children and citizens.

Donald N. Merino
Hoboken

The writer is Alexander Crombie Humphreys Professor of Economics of Engineering at, Stevens Institute of Technology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); POLITICS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%) Politics and Government

PERSON: Donald N (Prof) Merino

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



713 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: WORTH NOTING; 
For Sale: Town Hall, Officials Not Included

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE WOODSIDE

 BODY:
Perusing the real estate ads in the lower Connecticut River Valley, an unusual offering sticks out. Officials in Chester are taking bids for its former town hall, a brick building built in 1940. It is 3,600 square feet, has an outdoor bulletin board and a vault. The minimum bid is $365,000. 
 "It would make a wonderful office complex," said First Selectman Martin L. Heft. The town will take bids until Jan. 15. 
 Municipal offices have already moved to a building with three times the square footage, almost two miles away on Route 154. Even Chester, with a population of 3,743 and so small that its slogan is "We know where it is," found that it's classic town hall was just not big enough to handle the town's business. The size of the building the town needed would have been out of character for the quaint village center, so officials decided, and voters approved, the move to the outskirts of town, Mr. Heft said. So the town spent about $2.8 million to buy and renovate the new building.
Since the early 1980's, Chester's downtown has evolved from a local service economy - with a pharmacy and grocery store - to a more arts-oriented area of shops, galleries, offices, and restaurants.
Pat Medwar, who owns the deli and sundries store Simon's Marketplace on Main Street, estimated that half of her clients are residents and the other half tourists. She said her business had not changed since Town Hall moved.
But Charlene Janacek, owner of the Lunch Box, a popular Main Street diner, said her business has slowed. 
"Chester center has changed to the point that even before Town Hall moved, there was really nothing here for the person who lives here," she said.
But Mr. Heft said that Chester center is still vibrant. "The residents and property owners have kept it going," he said, "kept it vital." CHRISTINE WOODSIDE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%) 

PERSON: Christine Woodside

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Chester (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



714 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: Recycling Difficulties Must Be Overcome 

 BODY:
We all understand that garbage disposal is a necessity. But we now have the ability to transform waste matter into usable, productive materials, creating a double home run for the environment and community at large. 
Recycling clearly reduces the amount of garbage with which we must deal.
 It is unacceptable to suggest mass incinerators as the solution. Besides being cost-inefficient, incinerators pollute the air and produce foul odors. 
 American Ref-Fuel is trying to convince the public that incinerating New York City's garbage is in Long Island's best economic interest and would alleviate much of our energy crunch. To quote Dr. Gordon Danby, a retired senior physicist from Brookhaven National Laboratory and recipient of the 2000 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Engineering, "incinerating garbage is a lousy way to get rid of garbage. And it's a terrible way, from an economic point of view, to generate electricity." 
Increased recycling may not be a money maker, but it is, clearly, a better choice for Long Island. Sometimes benefits cannot be measured in dollars and cents but must be measured in common sense.
We are marketing Long Island as a vacation destination. Our wineries, farms, beaches, parks and family activity centers are burgeoning. Does anyone think incinerators should be added to the list? Once tainted, our pristine land will be beautiful no more. Recycle yes, burn no!

Mary Gardner
President
Wading River Beach and Conservation Association
Wading River

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (88%); WASTE REDUCTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); WINERIES (67%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (66%); AIR POLLUTION (56%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Recycling of Waste Materials; Incinerators

COMPANY: COVANTA HOLDING CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (56%) American Ref-Fuel

TICKER: CVA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS562213 SOLID WASTE COMBUSTORS & INCINERATORS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (57%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (57%)

PERSON: Mary Gardner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Wading River (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



715 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
New Rules, And Maybe Profits, in Cellphones

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
THE switch is on. 
 Under rules that went into effect last week, customers who change cellphone companies can keep their numbers. The change has already prompted a surge of traffic in cellphone stores around the country. Even before the rule change, shares of cellphone makers had generally gone up significantly this year. 
 Brian T. Modoff, senior wireless equipment analyst at Deutsche Bank, talked last week about the industry and how to invest in it. Following are excerpts from the conversation:

Q. What effect do you expect the rule change will have on the cellphone market?

A. The changes could spark more unit sales, because when people change carriers, they frequently need a new phone.
And compared to Europe, the American market is underpenetrated. Cellphone use in this country is a little over 50 percent, compared with 80 percent in Europe. 
The U.S. market represents about 15 percent of industry revenues. Asia is the most important region. About 40 percent of sales come from there. Then comes Europe, with about 25 percent. Africa and Latin America each represent about 10 percent of sales. 
A pickup in U.S. sales would be nice, but the bottom line is that there are still too many players and the pricing environment is still challenging.

Q. How many companies are in this business?

A. The global players are Nokia, Motorola, Samsung, Siemens, LG Electronics and Sony Ericsson. That's it. Collectively they have about 85 percent of the market.
There are a lot of regional companies because the barriers to entry are pretty low. You still need to have some technical know-how, but your average consumer electronics company is capable of building phones. 
To give an example, Chinese cellphone makers have over 40 percent of the domestic market now. That is double what it was 18 months ago. In China alone, there are 47 brands of phones and more than 800 models. Clearly, that is a market begging for consolidation.

Q. What kind of pricing pressure do cellphone makers face?

A. Phones are getting cheaper and cheaper.
In China, there is a big gray market for used phones, which you can buy for $20. You can get a local phone for around $50. A year and a half ago, you couldn't find a phone there below $100. You are continuing to see prices come down, especially on the low end.

Q. Which cellphone makers are growing fastest?

A. Samsung is very aggressive in the market, and there is a very good chance that by next year they will be bigger than Motorola. LG Electronics, another Korean company, is rapidly rising, too. They are going to continue to pick up share.
So, you could see players like Alcatel and others in Europe decide this business is just too tough.

Q. Do you think that Motorola will leave the handset business?

A. The company needs to restructure itself, and it won't be easy.
To give you an example, Nokia has $33 billion in revenues and about 30,000 employees. Its executives come in every day thinking about handsets and infrastructure. 
Motorola has $25 billion in revenues and 90,000 employees. Their management comes in each day and thinks about 12 different markets, from handsets to cable. They have to deal with multiple industries, multiple end-markets and multiple competitors. They need to look at what they are doing and at what is worth doing. 
Handsets represent more than 50 percent of their revenues, but at this point I would question if handsets are a good business. I don't know if Motorola would sell it. But it is worth more now than it will be in a year or two.

Q. Do you like any of the stocks in this group?

A. You can't expect to buy the group and do well. This year has been the exception to the rule, because the worst companies I follow, in terms of fundamentals, have done the best.
My view of the wireless space now is that it is a lot like the telecom space in 1993. Overall growth for the industry will be in line with nominal gross domestic product. But you can make selective investments that will do well. 
Qualcomm is our favorite large-cap name, but we think we can buy the stock at a cheaper price. 
C.D.M.A. and W.C.D.M.A. are technologies that will become a larger piece of the wireless industry. This is Qualcomm's technology. There is a risk that Nokia will aggressively go after market share in C.D.M.A. next year, but we think W.C.D.M.A. will kick in in 2005 in terms of volumes. 
We also like Nokia, which is the strongest company financially but whose stock has done the worst so far this year. It is the cheapest large-capitalization name in my group. The price point and their cash flow make the stock attractive.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian T. Modoff 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (93%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); BONDS (71%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Stocks and Bonds; Cellular Telephones

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); LG ELECTRONICS INC (54%); SIEMENS AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Bank Ag

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (54%); LGLD (LSE) (54%); 066570 (KSE) (54%); SIN (SWX) (54%); SIE (LSE) (54%); SIE (FRA) (54%); SIE (BIT) (54%); SI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: Brian T Modoff

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



716 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
What Do All Those Fees Add Up To?

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
NOW that investors realize that their interests do not always come first with their mutual fund managers, perhaps they will focus on the sky-high fees they have been forking over for years. 
 It has not been easy for investors to fathom exactly what they are paying in fund fees. In fund prospectuses, the fees charged to investors are stated as a percentage of assets. At around 1 percent a year, these costs look positively benign. 
 In dollar terms, however, the fees are staggering. And when the managers receiving them turn in a woeful performance, as has been the case recently more often than not, the fees represent an enormous and troubling transfer of wealth from hard-working individuals to some seriously fat cats. 
So how much did investors pay to stock and bond fund managers in the most recent 12 months? More than $35.2 billion, according to Max Rottersman, president of FundExpenses.com, a research firm that analyzes fund costs for institutional clients. That represents 0.86 percent of assets in these funds.
If nothing else, this Mount Everest of money makes it even more amazing that some fund managers decided to chisel. And the total does not include sales charges on broker-sold funds.
Mr. Rottersman breaks the fees into four groups. The largest is adviser fees, which totaled $21 billion or 0.52 percent of assets. Other fees, including the self-serving 12b-1 charges fund companies use to attract new money, totaled $9.2 billion, or 0.23 percent of assets. Shareholder servicing fees added $5.6 billion, or 0.14 percent, and custodian fees brought in $537 million, or 0.01 percent. 
So, apart from being a ridiculous sum to pay for subpar performance and chicanery, what is $35.2 billion? It is roughly equivalent to the gross domestic product of Ecuador. It is $3 billion more than what American consumers spent on major household appliances last year.
 What else does $35.2 billion buy? It would pay for the nation's entire food stamp program this year, as well as all the child nutrition programs run by the government. The numbers at specific funds are equally astounding. Over the three fiscal years ending in March 2003, for example, investors in the Fidelity Magellan fund, which has not been implicated in any scandals, have paid management fees of $1.6 billion. Yet in each of those years the fund lost money: it was down 24 percent in fiscal 2001, and it lost 0.76 percent in 2002 and almost 25 percent in 2003. (The stock market has recovered since March, when the fund's fiscal year ends, and it is now up 18 percent for the year to date.) 
Over 10 years, Magellan investors have paid $4 billion in management fees, Mr. Rottersman said. Yet the fund has lagged behind the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index through that period.
This is not to say that astute fund managers should not be allowed to make a profit. But managers should be ashamed to get so very rich while their shareholders are getting poorer. 
IN a recent speech, John C. Bogle, the founder of Vanguard, said fund managers' quest for higher profits "must bear heavy responsibility" for the illegal late trading and market timing, where traders capitalize on time zone differences, that investigators have unearthed. 
Fund shareholders must stop this wealth transfer. They should demand that their employers negotiate hard for lower costs in their 401(k) plans. And in accounts they have more control over, investors should dump low-performing, high-cost funds. Now. 
"The public needs to understand the enormity of these numbers," Mr. Rottersman said. "When you're paying all this money to mutual fund companies, you're working for them; they're not working for you."
Amen.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Below Target"Graph tracks Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and Fidelity Magellan fund from 1994 to 2002. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); NUTRITION (69%); MOUNTAINS (52%); FOOD STAMPS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mutual Funds

ORGANIZATION: Fidelity Investments Co

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: HIMALAYAS (55%); MOUNT EVEREST (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



717 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2231 words

HEADLINE: That Pudgy Pooch Is an Industry's Best Friend 

BYLINE:  By BRENDAN I. KOERNER

 BODY:
UNLIKE their diet-crazed owners, America's pets don't care a whit about rock-hard abs. Most dogs and cats have yet to meet a buttery table scrap they didn't like, no matter how much kibble they have consumed. 
 That apparent lack of willpower is not only ruining Fido's or Fluffy's figure. According to the latest feeding guidelines from the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences, pets are chowing their way toward diabetes, heart disease and other ailments. "Obesity," the document states, "is estimated to occur in 25 percent of dogs and cats in westernized societies." 
 To Donald C. Beitz, a professor of animal science at Iowa State University and chairman of the committee that wrote the guidelines, the solution is simple enough: "Whatever your pet is eating now, cut back to 90 percent." 
But pet food manufacturers are pushing a pricier approach, one that taps into America's zeal for the latest low-cal, low-carb and vitamin-spiked foods.
"There's something like 50 to 60 million dogs in this country," said David Litwak, editor in chief of Pet Business magazine. "If 25 percent of them could be obese, and basically need diets, of course the pet food companies are going to fall all over themselves to fill that need."
Consumers, perhaps alarmed at their own expanding waistlines, are responding. Since 2000, sales of weight-control pet foods have grown 25 percent, to $500 million a year, according to the market research firms Information Resources and Roper ASW. That makes diet fare one of the fastest-growing segments in the $12.5 billion pet food industry. 
When the guidelines came out in September, pet food makers were quick to publicize -- some say sensationalize -- the obesity estimate, making it a big part of their marketing campaigns for weight-control fare.
"I did talk to a very high-ranking person at one of the big pet food companies, and he was really happy that we came out with the idea that obesity is so common," Mr. Beitz said. "Somehow, his company is going to try to make some money off of it." 
The industry line is that indulgent pet owners are responsible for their pets' corpulence, by loving them too much. 
Jeffrey P. Ansell, president of Iams, the pet food maker, says he believes that dogs and cats are too often treated like surrogate children, and spoiled accordingly. Mr. Ansell said Iams advocates responsible nurturing.
"Our target audience is people who think of their dog or cat as family," Mr. Ansell said. "Over the years, it's gone from the backyard to the bedroom to into the bed. And people want to do what's right, but they don't always have the right information." Owners often disregard the suggested serving sizes for pet food, he added, and are far too liberal in doling out scraps of hamburger, fries and egg foo yong.
But product trends are also to blame for the ballooning of America's pets. Though mollycoddling owners have played a role, so have pet food formulas laden with fat and carbohydrates, created to hook pets on the taste.
"In the 1980's, most fat levels were around 8 to 12 percent," said Michael Kiertscher, director of corporate sales for Old Mother Hubbard, a small maker of pet food in Lowell, Mass. "Now a lot of them are in the 15 to 20 percent range. Dogs love fat, so it makes for a very palatable pet food."
The high starch content of many pet foods troubles Mr. Beitz, especially because felines in the wild are strict carnivores. "Cat food, by nature, should be all meat, or animal product of some type," he said. "Pet food companies have replaced fat and protein with starch because it's cheap. And that's not nature's way."
In fact, the demand for low-grade rice by pet food companies has been so strong in recent years that experts say it has periodically driven up rice prices by close to 50 percent -- to the chagrin of brewers like Anheuser-Busch, because the grain is also an important ingredient in many beers. 
FOR some pets, and for some people, obesity may be a matter of genetic destiny; even in a time of lower fat levels, svelte basset hounds were a rarity. And few owners fretted about their roly-poly pets when gut elimination was low on the list of national priorities. The truly concerned could buy a few reduced-calorie brands, first introduced in the late 1940's, but pets tended to hate the high-fiber, low-fat formulas. 
"The new research is showing instead that we should design diets for pets that are based more on their natural metabolisms," said Dr. James Pogrel, a veterinarian at the Bishop Ranch Veterinary Center in San Ramon, Calif. That means increasing the percentage of animal proteins in the food and cutting back on grains -- or, in other words, putting Fido on an Atkins diet.
The latest weight-control products for pets are obviously patterned after the Atkins regimen, which promotes protein as something of a dietary silver bullet. In addition to reduced-calorie versions of top-selling brands like Iams and Purina One, the weight-control marketplace now includes products like Hill's Prescription Diet Feline, advertised as "a low-carbohydrate, high-protein pet food formula clinically proven to alter a cat's metabolism for effective weight loss."
Given the increasingly affectionate treatment meted out to pets, it is no surprise that human dietary trends should influence the pet food market, said Dr. Karen Padgett, veterinary channel director for Hill's Pet Nutrition: "Anthropomorphism is just one of the ways we love our pets." 
Some of the industry's most successful product introductions in recent years have featured pellets that resemble human food. Sales of Purina's Beneful, featuring colorful bits that vaguely resemble peas and carrots, soared by 88.9 percent last year, according to Information Resources. 
Pet food makers are also borrowing a page from the health food playbook, spiking their formulas with a variety of fat-burning compounds. Several premium foods, like Iams Less Active/Weight Control Lamb and Rice Formula, now contain L-carnitine, an amino acid that fitness buffs promote as a metabolism booster. Over all, Iams now sells 18 weight-control formulas and 3 dietary biscuits, compared with just a single low-calorie product in the late 1980's.
John M. McMillin, a food industry analyst at Prudential Securities, said pet food companies had come to understand what their people-food counterparts realized in the 1990's. "You have to grow with product mix," he said. "It's just so hard to grow in volume, because stomachs only get so big." 
Last year, a record 865 pet products were introduced, according to Marketing Intelligence Service, almost double the 439 in 1998.
When shopping for themselves, people often switch brands or formulas because of price, especially in tough economic times. But when they stroll down the pet food aisle, saving a few cents appears to be less of a concern.
"The beauty of pet food is that people are inclined to trade up," Mr. McMillin said. "It's almost comical, but it's almost like people worry more about what their pets eat than what they eat."
Gary M. Stibel, founder of the New England Consulting Group in Westport, Conn., cites the success of Fancy Feast, from Nestle, in the 1980's as a turning point for the industry. The brand, known for its aristocratic-looking feline mascot, differentiated itself from the pack by using high-grade meats.
"Canned cat food went from predominantly inexpensive 6-ounce cans to 3-ounce cans after Fancy Feast, which was marketed as an indulgence," Mr. Stibel said.
Once Fancy Feast proved that consumers would pay more for Kitty's sake, pet food companies shifted their marketing strategies toward dry foods, which Mr. McMillin says have a higher profit margin than canned, or "wet," foods. Consumers embraced that, too. 
Even during the recent economic downturn, owners continued to splurge on their pets. The American Pet Products Manufacturers Association says that the average dog consumed $203 worth of food in 2002, plus $53 in treats. The total is up 9 percent from 2000.
THE climb in pet food budgets is partly attributable to Iams, a fast-growing brand of recent years. Products from Iams, which was founded in 1946, were long sold exclusively through pet stores and veterinarians, which together account for less than 20 percent of the market. Procter & Gamble acquired Iams in 1999 for $2.3 billion and put Mr. Ansell, the former head of its diaper division, in charge of taking the brand into grocery stores and other mainstream outlets. Despite its higher retail prices, the brand quickly vaulted to the top of the sales chart. In the year ended in April 2003, Iams's flagship dry foods were the best seller for both cats and dogs, with combined revenue of more than $300 million, according to Information Resources.
Iams also popularized so-called life-stage foods, specially formulated for very young or very old pets. In the industry, sales of senior formulas grew 3.2 percent, at a compound annual rate, from 1999 to 2002, according to Information Resources, even though the dry version of these formulas, which account for the vast majority of sales, cost an average of 91 percent more than regular dry food. 
"The arrival of Iams in mass-market stores was kind of like the arrival of Haagen-Dazs in the ice cream market," Mr. McMillin said. "It took premium products mainstream."
From 1999 to 2002, Information Resources said, sales of specialty pet foods -- the category that includes weight-control formulas -- grew by 10.2 percent at a compound annual rate, versus a decline of 0.3 percent for regular pet foods.
Not every weight-control formula sells at a premium to its more fattening counterparts, but many do cost a few cents extra. A 20-pound bag of Iams Lamb Meal and Rice Formula Premium Dog Food cost $16.99 at Petco.com last week, versus $18.49 for the weight-control version. And prescription diets like Hill's, which can be bought only through veterinarians, cost significantly more than those available in grocery stores. 
Even before the National Research Council's report was released, pet food companies -- well aware of pet owners' propensity to spend -- were promoting the notion that dogs and cats have grown too chubby. In May, Purina released its second report on the nation's 50 "pet healthiest cities." This time, the rankings took into account pet obesity, and the accompanying news release estimated that "more than half of the nation's cats and dogs are overfed."
Last year, Hill's, a division of Colgate-Palmolive, financed a study at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago; the study concluded that humans could more effectively lose weight by embarking on a diet in conjunction with their overweight dogs.
Pet food makers quickly capitalized on the news media's interest in the council's data. Iams folded the obesity estimate into the publicity for its "Iams Friends in Fitness Challenge," an educational campaign to heighten awareness of its L-carnitine-enhanced formulas. 
Mr. Litwak of Pet Business said industry consolidation had helped turn pet food makers into better marketers. A year after P.&G.'s purchase of Iams, Nestle bought Ralston-Purina for $11.2 billion. Last year, Del Monte bought the pet food business of Heinz for $2.3 billion, in the hope that it could reinvigorate the sagging 9Lives and Kibbles 'n Bits brands by focusing on warehouse chains like Sam's Club and Costco. 
The expertise of corporate veterans like Mr. Ansell of Iams "has given the pet food companies a lot more sophisticated marketing," Mr. Litwak said. 
"It's really helped them cross over from human trends to animal products," he added.
But the industry's handling of the research council estimates on pet obesity irked some members of the committee that produced them. They worry that pet food companies may be missing some nuances of the data. For example, the council's guidelines noted that "the incidence of obesity increases with age and is more frequent in neutered than intact animals." 
The increasing portliness of pets, then, may be in large part a result of longer life spans for dogs and cats. According to the Senior Dog Project, a nonprofit groupin San Francisco that promotes the adoption of older canines, the average life span of a dog is now more than 12 years, compared with 7 in the 1930's.
THE research council's feeding guidelines mention low-calorie pet foods as one option, but they also endorse a range of other tactics to address obesity, from reducing serving sizes of regular food to cutting the number of daily feedings. 
Cats in the wild, for example, are accustomed to a dozen small snacks throughout the day, rather than a constantly filled food dish. A possible weight-reduction approach, then, is to fill the bowl with tiny amounts of food at regular intervals.
Scientific evidence supports the idea that slimming down can extend the life spans of obese cats and dogs. In 2002, Purina released findings of a 14-year study on Labrador retrievers, a breed believed to be genetically predisposed to obesity. The study concluded that "by restricting diet to maintain ideal body condition," the dogs' lives could be extended by 15 percent, or nearly two years.
Dr. Pogrel of the Bishop Ranch Veterinary Center said the industry had another motivation for pushing weight-loss products for pets, "If you can make them live two years longer, that's two more years you can sell them pet food."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey P. Ansell, president of Iams, with the office dog, Euka. Mr. Ansell said he believes dogs and cats are too often treated as surrogate children. (Photo by Dan Ingersoll)(pg. 9) Drawing (Drawing by The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Pampering Dogs"Sales of specialty dog foods, which include diet foods, have been growing in recent years, while other segments have been shrinking. Change in dog food salesCompound annual rates, 1999-2002, for 52-week periods ended in April REGULARDollar changes: -0.3%Volume changes: -1.8% SPECIALTY*Dollar changes: +10.2%Volume changes: +6.0% PUPPYDollar changes: -2.3%Volume changes: -3.2% TOTALDollar changes: +0.5%Volume changes: -1.5% *Includes reduced-calorie and high-protein brands as well as brands for less active and large dogs. (Source by Information Resources)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (92%); CATS (91%); OBESITY (90%); PETS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); PET FOODS (90%); PET FOOD MFG (89%); DOGFOOD & CATFOOD MFG (89%); DIETING (88%); FOOD MFG (88%); ANIMALS (78%); NUTRITION (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); HEART DISEASE (70%); DIABETES (70%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%) Pet Foods; Cats; Dogs; Diet and Nutrition; Vitamins; Weight; Sales

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (57%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (57%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Brendan I Koerner

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



718 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Are Late Nights the Answer for a U.S. Gateway?

BYLINE:  By ERYN BROWN

 BODY:
AS Americans begin their holiday buying binge, the odds are strong that they will eventually bring home something that arrived in this country through the giant port complex at Los Angeles and Long Beach. 
 Containerloads of toys, clothes, shoes, furniture, auto parts and other products arrive there from the Far East, day and night, and then go by truck or train to stores around the United States. About 35 percent of imports and exports handled by ship -- including, for example, 6 out of every 10 pairs of shoes sold in the United States -- travel through the port, the busiest in the United States and the third busiest in the world, after Hong Kong and Singapore. 
 In some ways, the port complex has been having a better year than it did in 2002, when a bitter labor dispute culminated in a lockout of longshoremen at many West Coast ports. But now there is another problem afoot: The port's heavy traffic, although good for retailers and for international trade, has been a growing burden on Southern California's freeway and rail systems. Some people say that within five years, rail lines will reach capacity and trucks will further clog the region's freeways. And that means thousands of toys may have to wait much longer to disembark from ships. 
A related problem is pollution. In the Long Beach area, more than 54,000 vehicles clog Interstate 710 every day, according to Caltrans, the state's transportation authority. Some 7,500 of those vehicles are trucks, many traveling to or from the ports. Sam Atwood, a spokesman for the South Coast Air Quality Management District, said its study in 2000 found that diesel exhaust was responsible for 71 percent of the cancer risk from air pollution in an area including Orange County and parts of San Bernardino, Riverside and Los Angeles counties. 
Transportation experts and government officials have proposed many solutions for the port's traffic problems, from expanding roads to building new rail facilities to restricting imports. 
Another suggested remedy -- keeping gates to the ports open to trucks 24 hours a day, seven days a week -- has attracted wide, though not unanimous, support. 
Typically, port terminals operate around the clock, loading and unloading cargo and organizing containers. But at the ports, most of the terminal gates used by trucks are scheduled to be open only for the day shift, from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. That means much of the port's truck traffic is using the area's freeways at the same time as commuters. 
In a true 24/7 operation, many more trucks would enter and leave the terminal at off-peak hours -- during the port's second shift, from 5 p.m. to 3 a.m., and the "hoot shift," so named because it shares its hours with the owls, from 3 to 8 a.m. That would put more trucks on the road when other traffic is relatively light -- and they would cause less pollution because they would spend less time idling outside the port. 
Or so the thinking goes. Legislators, community groups, truckers and longshoremen have signed on to the idea. "This is something we've been advocating for a long time," said Steve Stallone, a spokesman for the International Longshore and Warehouse Union.
But many officials at the shipping lines, which own the terminals at the ports and would operate the gates during extended hours, said the plan would not work unless all parties changed the way they did business. From their point of view, extending the hours of the gates is expensive and, often, ineffective.
"There just doesn't seem to be the volume of business that would keep a terminal open 24 hours a day," said Tom Teofilo, vice president of the Pacific Merchant Shipping Association, an industry group that represents the shipping companies. 
Some cargo already moves through the gates during off hours; at Los Angeles and Long Beach, it is about 15 percent of the total, according to port officials. 
SHIPPING lines give the later hours mixed grades.
Wesley Brunson, an executive vice president at Evergreen America, a shipping company, says that it has had much success with its hoot-shift operations, which now run three days a week. During a hoot shift, Evergreen averages 600 "gate moves," as one-way truck trips are called, versus 2,000 to 2,400 during the day. "We find the hoot gates make the terminal operate more smoothly," Mr. Brunson said. Evergreen does not have scheduled operating hours during the second shift.
But Alan McCorkle, managing director of APM Terminals, part of the A.P. Moller-Maersk Group's shipping line, is not exactly gushing with praise. In a typical second shift at Pier 400 at Los Angeles, Mr. McCorkle said, Maersk has about 450 gate moves, versus about 2,300 during the day. "I can open up extended hours and not relieve congestion if no one comes," he said. 
On a Wednesday evening in October, Mr. McCorkle drove through Maersk's huge port complex, looking for trucks picking up cargo. About 7 p.m., only five trucks were waiting at the terminal gates, which have 12 lanes. "Most of these people are leftover day-shift people," he said. "By 7:30, it's onesies and twosies. It's like Halloween. You get a lot of kids from 6 to 8 p.m. Then nothing." 
It's a chicken-and-egg problem: Shipping lines do not want to run extended gate hours unless they have traffic. And while major shippers like Mattel, Wal-Mart and Payless Shoe Source have around-the-clock operations, many smaller companies and warehouses don't. 
But many truckers say they are reluctant to work late-night shifts unless all the terminal's services are open. In the current setup, services like the help desk and chassis maintenance area are sometimes unavailable, they say. "It's like a grocery having the checkout open but you can't hit the bakery, you can't hit the meat counter, you can't hit the cheese counter, and there's no hot food," said Stephanie Williams, vice president of the California Trucking Association, a trade group. 
Maersk's second shift is full service. But Mr. McCorkle said that some shipping companies used the same analogy to argue that they have to watch costs, and that it doesn't pay to keep all the departments open all the time. "When you go into the grocery story at 2 in the morning, you don't expect to get the pharmacy or the deli counter," he said. "You expect to get what's on the shelf." 
Wally Baker, a senior vice president of the Los Angeles Economic Development Corporation, a nonprofit organization that tries to attract business to the region, says he believes that it will ultimately take a system of penalties and fines to compel all interested parties to make full use of second shifts and hoot shifts. "If doing nothing is a choice, that's what people will choose," he said. "Penalties are the best motivator. That's the only thing that will really change the flow." 
EVERGREEN and Maersk say they plan to continue their extended hours. Mr. Brunson of Evergreen said that he "would go to a fourth day of hoot in a minute if the volumes justified it." 
Mr. McCorkle at Maersk agreed that off-hours operations were probably important for reducing congestion. "There are no other short-term solutions," he said, though he also said that retailers, truckers and warehouses should arrange their own operations to take more advantage of the longer hours. 
Mr. Teofilo of the shipping association is working with a group of port administrators, cargo owners, shipping companies, truck and rail companies and policy experts to examine how to make extended hours work for everyone. But he also remains cautious. "If a little bit of pain is spread among a lot of people, then we can maybe get it going," he said. 
Even if it catches on, a 24/7 gate operation may be only a first step toward alleviating port-related traffic problems in the region. "Extended-hours gates are the low-hanging fruit; it's not the final answer," said Alan Lowenthal, a Democratic member of the California Assembly from Long Beach. Mr. Lowenthal said the ports would become only busier, and the traffic worse, as imports from Asia continue to increase. 
Mr. Teofilo said, "We're going to have to do some really creative thinking for the kinds of volumes we're talking about." 
According to Mr. Baker of the development corporation, some 9.65 million containers were shipped into the port complex in 2000. By 2020, he said, the annual figure will be 36 million. 
Mr. Lowenthal said he expected that all the parties, including retailers, shipping lines, truckers and warehouses, would have to coordinate efforts to process so much cargo smoothly. Today, each shipping company tracks only its own traffic. No one monitors movements for the entire port complex.
"It's an interesting concept," Mr. McCorkle said of the idea of central coordination. How it would or could happen is another question, he added, and not one that he could answer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Port of Los Angeles, ships unload cargo into the night, but trucks mostly pick it up during the day, when traffic is heavy.; Alan McCorkle at APM Terminals in Los Angeles, said users would need to arrange operations to take more advantage of the longer hours at the port. Below, trucks wait to enter the receiving gates. (Photographs by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) Chart: "Containers Stacked Up"Some groups in the shipping industry say the port of Los Angeles and Long Beach, the world's third busiest, should become a 24-hour operation to alleviate congestion. CITY/PORT NAME: 1. Hong KongCOUNTRY: ChinaCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 19.1 CITY/PORT NAME: 2. SingaporeCOUNTRY: SingaporeCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 16.8 CITY/PORT NAME: 3. Los Angeles/Long BeachCOUNTRY: United StatesCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 10.6 CITY/PORT NAME: 4. PusanCOUNTRY: South KoreaCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 9.4 CITY/PORT NAME: 5. ShanghaiCOUNTRY: ChinaCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 8.6 CITY/PORT NAME: 6. KaohsiungCOUNTRY: TaiwanCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 8.5 CITY/PORT NAME: 7. ShenzhenCOUNTRY: ChinaCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 7.6 CITY/PORT NAME: 8. RotterdamCOUNTRY: The NetherlandsCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 6.5 CITY/PORT NAME: 9. HamburgCOUNTRY: GermanyCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 5.4 CITY/PORT NAME: 10. AntwerpCOUNTRY: BelgiumCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 4.8 CITY/PORT NAME: 11. Port KlangCOUNTRY: MalaysiaCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 4.5 CITY/PORT NAME: 12. DubaiCOUNTRY: United Arab EmiratesCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 4.2 CITY/PORT NAME: 13. YantianCOUNTRY: ChinaCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 4.2 CITY/PORT NAME: 14. New York/New JerseyCOUNTRY: United StatesCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 3.7 CITY/PORT NAME: 15. QingdaoCOUNTRY: ChinaCONTAINERS HANDLED IN 2002, IN MILLIONS: 3.4 (Source by ci-online)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); RETAILERS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); IMPORT CONTROLS (71%); AIR QUALITY (70%); AIR POLLUTION (70%); LOCKOUTS (68%); CANCER (50%) Ports; Ports

ORGANIZATION: Port of Los Angeles

PERSON: Eryn Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (97%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



719 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
As Stimulus, Tax Cuts May Soon Go Awry

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
LAUDING the Bush tax cuts isn't easy. They have turned a comfortable budget surplus into a constraining deficit, and they are enriching the wealthy far more than families with only five-figure incomes. 
 The one mitigating factor is stimulus. The tax cuts are helping to revive the economy by putting more spending money into people's pockets. But even that will soon backfire. 
 The stimulus is at its peak right now. During the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, the nation's taxpayers pocketed $117 billion, mainly from rebates and from reductions in paycheck withholding as lower tax rates went into effect. That $117 billion, which is the portion of the tax cut going only to individuals and not to companies, rises to $200 billion in the current fiscal year, the Congressional Budget Office reports. 
Most of the windfall from both fiscal years is packed into the 12 months that started last summer and will end next summer. Not surprisingly, this front-loading of the tax cuts coincides with the improving economy. But then the payout declines gradually, snuffing out the stimulus -- unless there is another big tax cut. Or as Chris Varvares, president of Macroeconomic Advisers, put it, "We have reduced the scope of using fiscal policy to cushion the economy in the next downturn."
Tax cuts function as stimulus only when they increase the amount that people spend. If America's $10 trillion economy expands by $117 billion in a given year, to a total, say, of $10.117 trillion, there is growth. Among other good things, the additional spending on goods and services generates jobs for people entering the labor force as the population expands. And the rising demand for workers begins to absorb those who lost jobs during the 2001 recession and the weak recovery that followed. The unemployment rate thus falls.
The $200 billion flowing to taxpayers in the current fiscal year includes the second installment of the $117 billion they received the previous year and an additional $83 billion. If all $200 billion is spent on goods and services, then there is still work for the people hired a year earlier, as well as job creation to satisfy the additional $83 billion in spending. All else being equal, the economy expands to a total of $10.2 trillion. 
A big chunk of the $200 billion will come to people as tax refund checks in the next six months -- a timely shot in the arm in a presidential election year. Then the shrinking begins as the tax cuts run their course. For fiscal 2005, which starts next Oct. 1, just a month before the election, the tax windfall for individuals will total only $168 billion. There will be another drop in fiscal 2006, the Congressional Budget Office estimates, basing its calculations partly on the tax cuts themselves (80 percent will have been paid out by 2005) and partly on an assumption about how much taxable income the economy will generate. 
The two play off each other. A $10.168 trillion economy, of course, is smaller than a $10.2 trillion one. The total production of goods and services declines and, with it, the need for workers. Their wages disappear and so does the revenue from taxing their pay. The stimulus aspect of the Bush tax cuts thus shifts into reverse. 
Economists in the Bush camp argue that the tax-cut stimulus will continue anyway, in a different, supply-side format. With more of their profits exempted from taxes, entrepreneurs will increase their efforts in pursuit of lightly taxed wealth. The stimulus will shift to them, specifically to their investments and hiring. The new profits and wages will then be spent on goods and services, and the economy will grow. Rising demand will result from rising supply.
Hyped-up entrepreneurs are indeed a benefit, but when it comes to lifting the economy, 70 years of experience has demonstrated that rising demand is crucial, and must come first. Only then do suppliers really become active, to satisfy the customers knocking on their doors.
THE Bush tax cuts encourage this customer demand, though not efficiently. They work best if every dollar of forgiven taxes is spent. Unfortunately, only a third is being spent, according to Joel Slemrod and his colleagues at the Office of Tax Policy Research at the University of Michigan. The rest has been saved or used to pay down debt, the office found in recent surveys.
By this reckoning, the Bush tax cuts will not do much to lift the economy. The $117 billion in fiscal 2003 gives birth to only $40 billion in effective stimulus. Much more of the cuts, perhaps every nickel, would have been spent if the money had been channeled to the states instead, to pay the salaries of teachers who were fired to balance budgets. The economy surged in the third quarter, but as Mr. Slemrod notes, "the tax cuts were not a major part of that growth."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Losing the Impact"Graph tracks tax cuts as a percentage of gross domestic product from 2001 to 2010. Based on Congressional Budget Office nominal G.D.P. projections; fiscal years (Source by Tax Policy Center; Brookings Institution)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); JOB CREATION (68%) Taxation; United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (59%)

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



720 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
To Save Factories, Owners Diversify

BYLINE:  By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE

DATELINE: LAWRENCE, Mass. 

 BODY:
THE 1,200 workers at the streamlined, automated plant here that makes Polartec, the popular cold-weather fabric, are having to live with the possibility that their jobs will be exported to China. If that happens, their chances of finding other work that pays as well are slim. 
 The employees of Malden Mills Industries have been on such a precipice before, and now, as then, they are looking to their longtime leader, Aaron M. Feuerstein, as their best hope to keep working at one of the nation's most technologically advanced textile factories. 
 The company, which emerged last month from bankruptcy court protection, is now being managed by its creditors, and they have indicated that they may move production overseas. But Mr. Feuerstein, 77, whose family founded the business nearly a century ago, has said that he can stay here and make a profit if he regains control of Malden. To help raise the financing to buy it back, he wants to develop some of the old brick mill buildings into housing, with a main street on one side and an expansive pond on the other. 
This week, he and a new partner intend to present the board of directors with a novel plan to repurchase the company. In September, Mr. Feuerstein agreed to enter a joint venture with the Winn Companies, a real estate developer in Boston. Their deal links the Malden buyback and the plant's continued operation to the renovation of a million square feet of historic mills at its 28-acre site into 600 low- and moderately priced rental apartments. 
Winn would invest $7.7 million in Malden and help secure an additional $70 million in private and public financing to let the partnership buy back the company from creditors led by GE Capital. In exchange, Winn says it plans to invest $100 million to redevelop the red brick behemoths into the largest infusion of new housing here in 130 years, according to Mayor Michael J. Sullivan. And as singular as this plan may be, other owners of small and midsize factories are also investing in surprising ventures to generate cash that can be pumped back into factories to keep them afloat. 
The Malden strategy of raising capital for the factory with a real estate deal is unusual, but sound in concept, according to John K. McIlwain, a senior fellow for housing at the Urban Land Institute, a research group based in Washington. "Factories usually sell or lease their property, then leave," he said. "But Malden is using its mills as an asset that qualifies for historic- and low-income housing tax credits, which make the deal work." 
In Lawrence, the jobs making Polartec are needed. It is the nation's 23rd-poorest city and has an unemployment rate of 15 percent, versus 5.6 percent for the state and 6 percent for the nation. "The community needs the jobs, the affordable housing and the Feuersteins, who support many local charities they don't take credit for," Mr. Sullivan said. 
Mr. Feuerstein won prominence in 1995, after a fire devoured much of his plant. Rather than use the $300 million in insurance to retire or to move the factory to a region with lower costs, he built and equipped a modern textile mill here. In the aftermath of the fire, he spent about $25 million to pay its 2,000 workers their salaries for three months. 
Despite the efficiency of the $440 million, 500,000-square-foot factory, the company landed in bankruptcy court proceedings, for the second time in 20 years, in November 2001. It attributed the move to lower demand because of warm weather, the recession and high debt. 
Last year, under the creditors' management now led by David S. Orlofsky, Malden entered a joint venture to make fabric in China with Shanghai Challenge Textiles. In the future, the creditors are likely to "relocate a substantial portion of Malden's operations overseas," Mr. Orlofsky wrote to the Export-Import Bank last August.
"We'd like to do more business in Asia," he said in an interview. "We'll do something with the real estate; maybe a sale lease-back."
This year, Malden has sold 21.5 million yards of fabric, much of it Polartec, for about $170 million and is profitable, before restructuring and other charges, Mr. Orlofsky said. In 1994, it sold about $190 million in apparel fabric but also had about $200 million in sales of upholstery fabric, a business it has since suspended. 
Saving factories is crucial for the nation's future economic health, according to Representative Donald A. Manzullo, Republican of Illinois. Last summer, he was one of several officials, also including Linda M. Conlin, the Commerce Department's under secretary for trade, and Senators Judd Gregg and John E. Sununu, Republicans of New Hampshire, who wrote letters to the Export-Import Bank urging it to grant $35 million in guarantees for Mr. Feuerstein's repurchase of Malden. If the guarantees are not granted, Representative Manzullo wrote, "these manufacturing jobs will be sent to China." 
He said factories are needed for reasons beyond the tangible goods they produce. "Malden is one of few textile factories left in the country, and without manufacturing, agriculture, mining, we can't be self-sustaining; we'll become a third-rate country," said Representative Manzullo, chairman of the House Small Business Committee.
Some manufacturers can thrive in high-wage countries like France, Italy, Taiwan, Germany and the United States, according to research by Richard Lester, director of the Industrial Performance Center at M.I.T. "The world is more diverse than conventional wisdom indicates," he said, adding that in the right business climate, "we've observed that textile, apparel, automotive, electronics and software manufacturing can be done."
From 1995 to 2002, the number of factory jobs rose 22 percent in Canada and 24.6 percent in Spain, versus a loss of 11.3 percent in the United States, a study by economists at Alliance Capital Management showed.
"What's important," said John Case, author of "Open-Book Management" (Harper Business, 1995), "is to cultivate a U.S. manufacturing sector that can compete globally and spawn other world-class companies that will lead us to overall economic success."
MALDEN, with its focus on technology and research and development, is an American manufacturer that can thrive, said Lawrence H. Curtis, the developer who is a partner at Winn. "With the added discipline of our business skills, we think Malden can expand on its talents to enhance its profitability," said Mr. Curtis, who with Mr. Feuerstein plans to present the real estate buyback plan to the board, which must pass judgment on it.
Mr. Curtis added, "The driving force here is to save the company and its jobs for the region and produce affordable housing in an era of scarce government resources."
Among other companies that are looking for ways to enhance cash flow for their manufacturing operations is a business in Springfield, Mo., that builds diesel engines. In 1983, the manufacturing operation, now called SRC Heavy Duty, was spun off by a group of employees from International Harvester. It then had $16 million in annual sales and 119 workers; it now has $50 million in annual sales and 334 workers. 
By 1987, John P. Stack, now the chief executive of the SRC Holdings Corporation, the parent company of Heavy Duty, realized that the factory needed an outside cash flow to survive. Since then, SRC has started or invested in 26 other companies that are now subsidiaries. The parent company is projecting revenue of $225 million and net income of $8 million for the 2003 fiscal year, which ends on Jan. 31. From that, about $2 million a year flows into Heavy Duty, which needs a profit of 4 percent to stay competitive but earns only 2 percent to 3 percent a year, Mr. Stack said.
"We took our manufacturing discipline into the service sector to develop new sources of revenues," he said. The services include factory logistics, salvage, software for truckers, publishing, a spa for teenagers and a bank. "Without creating these other businesses we couldn't have survived," he said.
"Manufacturing has very slim margins, but if a company innovates, the margins can be incredible, like the 17 percent we earned this year at our publishing company," he said. "Manufacturing will come back as wages rise in places like Japan and Taiwan and if we get trade policies that level the playing field. Until then, we overcome the tough cycles with sister businesses."
ANOTHER company that is leveraging its manufacturing expertise is the 149-year-old Menasha Corporation, based in Neenah, Wis. Menasha sells $1.1 billion a year in containers and packaging and is developing labels embedded with computer chips that use radio frequencies to transmit data about a package: where it is and how long it has been there. By 2005, Wal-Mart Stores and the Defense Department want their suppliers to use this radio frequency identification technology, or RFID. Menasha executives hope that by next spring, the RFID labels will be a new business it can spin off or a service it can sell.
"It's totally new for us; an Internet I.T. play that uses intellectual capital from our manufacturing to create a new stream of revenue we can plow back into the factory," said Mike John, a company spokesman. The money is sorely needed: the company laid off 112 of its 5,300 workers this year. "With profits tight and customers moving offshore, we need this new income," Mr. John said.
In Lawrence and across the country, factories that fortify themselves with new revenue streams prove a point, Mayor Sullivan said. "If Malden keeps operating in Lawrence," he said, "it shows that manufacturing can still be alive in the U.S.A."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Malden Mills Industries is set to consider new uses for some of its mill buildings in Lawrence, Mass., where it has one of the newest textile mills in the country. It makes Polartec fabric there. (Photographs by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times); John P. Stack of the SRC Holdings Corporation invested in service-oriented businesses so his manufacturing operations could survive.(Photo by Dean Curtis for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILE MILLS (91%); FABRIC MILLS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); TEXTILES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (88%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); PROPERTY LEASES (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); JOINT VENTURES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (55%) Textiles; Factories and Industrial Plants; United States Economy; Labor; Housing

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (65%); MALDEN MILLS INDUSTRIES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Malden Mills Industries

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (65%); GEC (LSE) (65%); GE (SWX) (65%); GE (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (58%); SIC2221 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, MANMADE FIBER & SILK (58%) SIC2221 FABRIC MILLS; 

PERSON: Susan Diesenhouse; Aaron M Feuerstein

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Lawrence (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



721 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Getting to Know You Is as Easy as A, B, C or D

BYLINE:  By EILENE ZIMMERMAN

 BODY:
AFTER a long interview process during the summer, Dionne Glenn was told she had to do one more thing before learning whether she would be hired as a branch manager for Central Bank of Houston: take a simple multiple-choice test online. "They told me it was a management test," Ms. Glenn, 34, said. 
 It didn't take her long to realize that it was actually a personality test. "It threw me off," she said. "I was expecting questions about how I would handle myself in a variety of situations." Instead, she said, she was asked to choose from a list of personal attributes that best described herself. In dealing with others, for instance, was she "cooperative, agreeable," or "sweet, pleasing" or "stubborn, unyielding"? 
 Although she knew there were no wrong answers, she said she worried that her responses would not accurately reflect her personality. Ultimately, Ms. Glenn, who has 13 years of experience in the banking industry, was hired. The company allowed her to view a report assessing her personality, work style and abilities, and Ms. Glenn said it was uncannily accurate. "It really works; my profile was exactly me," she said. 
The use of pre-employment tests has been increasing as businesses look for ways to winnow the rising pool of candidates in this tight job market. Companies of all sizes and across all industries -- like Toyota, Bank of America, Sonesta International Hotels and Subway, to name a few -- use them routinely. For employment testing companies, this has meant an increase in business of 10 percent to 15 percent a year, on average, for the last three years, said William G. Harris, executive director of the Association of Test Publishers.
These psychometric tests, as they are known in the industry, measure psychological attributes -- "measuring the psyche," explained Debra Condren, president of Business Psychology Solutions, an executive coaching firm with offices in New York and San Francisco. Under this umbrella fall personality tests, intelligence quotient tests, ability testing and aptitude tests. Some are geared for specific industries or jobs. "Business needs some tool for qualifying," said William Byham, founder of Development Dimensions International, a company in Costa Mesa, Calif., that helps with selection, promotion and training of employees. "You can press a key and send your resume out to 2,000 organizations."
Another factor is cost. Employee turnover is often expensive: the Society for Human Resource Management estimates the cost of replacing supervisory, technical and management personnel at 50 percent to several times the departing employee's annual salary. Testing experts say psychometric tests can greatly improve the chances of finding the right person for a particular job or corporate environment; the tests can be relatively inexpensive to administer, often less than $50 a candidate, although the cost can go as high as $10,000 for senior executive positions like chief executive. 
EMPLOYERS generally use more than just one test to make a decision; in many cases, several tests are used in conjunction with interviews.
Many tests now on the market measure what people in the industry call "the big five": conscientiousness, agreeableness, emotional stability, openness and extroversion. Steven Lorenzet, a professor of human resource management at Rider University in Lawrenceville, N.J., said studies show that psychometric tests are accurate predictors of how someone will behave at work. 
Dave Ratner, founder and president of Dave's Soda and Pet City in Agawam, Mass., a small chain of stores selling pet food and a variety of sodas, said he learned that the hard way. When he experimented with testing three years ago, he said, he was warned that a candidate he wanted to hire would not be right for the job. "I went against the advice of the tester and hired the guy," he said. "Two months later, after I invested all this time and money training him, he up and bolted." 
In the two years since he made the testing of job candidates routine, turnover has been lower and personnel problems have been rare, Mr. Ratner says, adding that he now pays close attention to the test results.
Stephen Henson, a vice president at Kelly Blue Book in Irvine, Calif., a resource for car buyers, said the company tests job candidates to find employees with "a specific set of skills" or traits for certain positions. 
"We had a couple of really strong candidates for this data analyst spot," he recalled, "but after they took the personality profile test we found their personality made them 'inspirational and charming,' someone you would like as a person.
"Although those are great attributes, this particular job doesn't call for someone who is social," he said. "We need someone who is a great critical thinker; accuracy is important to them."
For job applicants, pre-employment tests often add anxiety to an already stressful process. "I knew there was a lot of competition for this position, and I wanted it," said Ms. Glenn, the bank manager from Texas. On the day of her test, she said, three other candidates also were waiting to be tested. 
Kelly Wright, recently hired as an account manager at Hetrick Communications, a marketing and public relations firm in Indianapolis, was given a personality test at the end of a five-week period that included several interviews and a take-home writing assignment. Ms. Wright, 37, has 17 years of experience in public relations. But Pamela Klein, chief operating officer of Hetrick, said that because it had only 24 employees, it could not afford any mistakes in hiring.
Ms. Wright, of Lebanon, Ind., said her reaction to having to take the test was "both surprise and terror."
"I felt like I was already a good fit for the company and had gotten positive feedback from my interviews," she said. 
So what should job candidates do? Just answer the questions candidly, authorities on testing say, and treat the tests as another recruiting tool. Besides, they say, the tests could prove just as useful for the job seeker as for the potential employer. "Yes, you may lose the job, but then again, it may have not been the right place for you," said Mel Kleiman, managing partner at the Hire Tough Group in Houston, which devises recruiting programs. 
Employers who administer tests are generally looking for candidates who can fit into the corporate culture and handle the demands of the job. Some want to weed out candidates with traits that may be deemed undesirable, like aggressiveness.
"We've had a lot more interest in what we do in just the last three or four months," said Michael D. McIntyre, an assistant professor at the University of Tennessee College of Business, who helped develop a multiple-choice test for hostility. He uses the test in his consulting work. 
"We look at underlying personality traits to assess the risk of a person acting in a hostile way," Mr. McIntyre said. 
He says his test includes reasoning problems that ask test takers to draw conclusions. "Other tests ask someone if they have a bad temper, things like that," he said. "No one is going to admit they are a powder keg waiting to explode." 
He says that 5 percent to 10 percent of the people tested will score high enough to be considered a risk for aggressive behavior.
SCREENING also can assess integrity and leadership qualities. Because of recent scandals across corporate America, some companies are scrambling for tests to screen out people who are unsuitable for top executive spots. 
Steven Berglas, an executive coach and adjunct professor at the Marshall School of Business at the University of Southern California, says he has developed a test to identify narcissistic character traits and people who cannot adapt to change. "You want leadership to be responsive to change, like market shifts," Dr. Berglas said. 
His test, conducted orally, asks executive candidates questions like these: "When you made the biggest mistake in your professional life, what did you learn?" and "Who do you give most credit for your career success?" He said the ability to share success and acknowledge failure provide insight into how someone might function in a powerful role. Dr. Berglas says he is converting the interview into a written test.
Although some job applicants may dread a pre-employment test, it may help to motivate them after their hiring. "Testing gives the impression that a company wants the best people it can get, that it is very selective, that you are special," said Aurelio Prifitera, president of the Psychological Corporation in San Antonio, which sells human resources-related tests. 
Jerry Velasco, 50, the new director of training for managers and supervisors at El Taco Tote, a chain of Mexican restaurants, said that before he was hired in October, he had to take a 50-question Wonderlic Personnel Test, which measured I.Q. At first, Mr. Velasco said, he wondered if it was truly necessary: after all, he had considerable experience in the hospitality industry, having spent 18 years working for Marriott. But in hindsight, he said, he found the test to be a good evaluation tool. 
"I definitely can see how it could be very useful," he said. "I feel now like I know I'm a good fit for this job."
Thuy Pham, 26, a newly hired data analyst at Kelly Blue Book, said she found it reassuring that the company cared enough about its employees to go to such lengths. "I have worked at other companies where they only wanted me to perform a function, and as long as I could do that, it was enough," she said. "I want to stay in this job a long time, so I'm actually glad they care enough to determine if I am a good match."

GRAPHIC: To place job candidates in the appropriate positions, many employers test cognitive ability and intelligence quotient."Generally, the higher the I.Q., the quicker and more thoroughly a person will learn anything," said Charlie Wonderlic, president of Wonderlic Inc. of Libertyville, Ill., the creator of the 50-question Wonderlic Personnel Test, which has been used by companies for more than six decades. Mr. Wonderlic says the test helps to predict a persons success on the job. The company says that only four people have received a perfect score of 50 and that the national average is 21.6.Wonderlic has calculated what it considers minimum scores for nearly every job in the economy. The minimum score for mechanical engineers is 30, while the minimum for corporate executives and sales managers is 28. For nurses, it is 26; bank tellers, 23; telemarketers, 22; cashiers, 20; and factory workers, 17. Although not the actual questions, here is a sampling of the types of questions used in the Wonderlic Personnel Test: 1. Assume the first two statements are true. Is the final one true, false or not certain?The boy plays baseball.All baseball players wear hats.The boy wears a hat. 2. Paper sells for 21 cents a pad. What will four pads cost? 3. How many of the five pairs of names listed below are exact duplicates?a. Nieman, K. M. Neiman, K. M.b. Thomas, G. K. Thomas, C. K.c. Hoff, J. P. Hoff, J. P.d. Pino, L. R. Pina, L. R.e. Warner, T. S. Wanner, T .S. 4. "Resent" and "reserve." Do these words:a. Have similar meaningsb. Have contradictory meaningsc. Mean neither the same nor opposite 5. A train travels 20 feet in one-fifth of a second. At this same speed, how many feet will it travel in three seconds? 6. When rope is selling at $.10 a foot, how many feet can you buy for 60 cents? 7. The ninth month of the year is:a. Octoberb. Januaryc. Juned. Septembere. May 8. Which number in the following group represents the smallest amount?a. 7b. .8c. 31d. .33e. 2 9. In printing an article of 48,000 words, a printer decides to use two sizes of type. Using the larger type, a printed page contains 1,800 words. Using smaller type, a page contains 2,400 words. The article is allotted 21 full pages in a magazine. How many pages must be in smaller type? 10. Three individuals form a partnership and agree to divide the profits equally. X invests $9,000, Y invests $7,000, Z invests $4,000. If the profits are $4,800, how much less does X receive than if the profits were divided in proportion to the amount invested? 11. Assume the first two statements are true. Is the final one true, false or not certain?Tom greeted Beth.Beth greeted Dawn.Tom did not greet Dawn. 12. A boy is 17 years old and his sister is twice as old. When the boy is 23 years old, what will be the age of his sister? ANSWERS 1. True2. 84 cents3. One4. c.5. 300 feet6. 6 feet7. d.8. d.9. 1710. $56011. Not certain12. 40 years oldPhoto: Dionne Glenn was tested by a Houston bank before she was hired as a branch manager;she found that the personal profile that resulted was uncannily accurate. (Photo by F. Carter Smith/Polaris, for The New York Times) Chart: "Sample Questions for Job Candidates"To place job candidates in the appropriate positions, many employers test cognitive ability and intelligence quotient."Generally, the higher the I.Q., the quicker and more thoroughly a person will learn anything," said Charlie Wonderlic, president of Wonderlic Inc. of Libertyville, Ill., the creator of the 50-question Wonderlic Personnel Test, which has been used by companies for more than six decades. Mr. Wonderlic says the test helps to predict a persons success on the job. The company says that only four people have received a perfect score of 50 and that the national average is 21.6.Wonderlic has calculated what it considers minimum scores for nearly every job in the economy. The minimum score for mechanical engineers is 30, while the minimum for corporate executives and sales managers is 28. For nurses, it is 26; bank tellers, 23; telemarketers, 22; cashiers, 20; and factory workers, 17. Although not the actual questions, here is a sampling of the types of questions used in the Wonderlic Personnel Test: 1. Assume the first two statements are true. Is the final one true, false or not certain?The boy plays baseball.All baseball players wear hats.The boy wears a hat. 2. Paper sells for 21 cents a pad. What will four pads cost? 3. How many of the five pairs of names listed below are exact duplicates?a. Nieman, K. M. Neiman, K. M.b. Thomas, G. K. Thomas, C. K.c. Hoff, J. P. Hoff, J. P.d. Pino, L. R. Pina, L. R.e. Warner, T. S. Wanner, T .S. 4. "Resent" and "reserve." Do these words:a. Have similar meaningsb. Have contradictory meaningsc. Mean neither the same nor opposite 5. A train travels 20 feet in one-fifth of a second. At this same speed, how many feet will it travel in three seconds? 6. When rope is selling at $.10 a foot, how many feet can you buy for 60 cents? 7. The ninth month of the year is:a. Octoberb. Januaryc. Juned. Septembere. May 8. Which number in the following group represents the smallest amount?a. 7b. .8c. 31d. .33e. 2 9. In printing an article of 48,000 words, a printer decides to use two sizes of type. Using the larger type, a printed page contains 1,800 words. Using smaller type, a page contains 2,400 words. The article is allotted 21 full pages in a magazine. How many pages must be in smaller type? 10. Three individuals form a partnership and agree to divide the profits equally. X invests $9,000, Y invests $7,000, Z invests $4,000. If the profits are $4,800, how much less does X receive than if the profits were divided in proportion to the amount invested? 11. Assume the first two statements are true. Is the final one true, false or not certain?Tom greeted Beth.Beth greeted Dawn.Tom did not greet Dawn. 12. A boy is 17 years old and his sister is twice as old. When the boy is 23 years old, what will be the age of his sister? ANSWERS 1. True2. 84 cents3. One4. c.5. 300 feet6. 6 feet7. d.8. d.9. 1710. $56011. Not certain12. 40 years old

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); BASEBALL (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); BANK BRANCHES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (61%) Labor; Tests and Testing

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); SONESTA INTERNATIONAL HOTELS CORP (54%); DEVELOPMENT DIMENSIONS INTERNATIONAL INC (52%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (54%); NAICS483212 INLAND WATER PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); SIC4489 WATER TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, NEC (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: Eilene Zimmerman

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



722 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Stocks Have a Short but Happy Week

BYLINE:  By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
In a trading week shortened by Thanksgiving, the stock market climbed, prompted by a report indicating that the economy is growing even faster than expected.
 On Tuesday, the Commerce Department said that the economy expanded in the third quarter at an annual rate of 8.2 percent, a full percentage point above the previous estimate, which was already the fastest rate since the 1980's. Other reports also suggested that the economy had gained traction. 
 Some investors said stock prices already reflect the economic rebound, but the market surged anyway.
DuPont and Alcoa had the biggest weekly gains of the Dow industrials, under the assumption that a revived economy would devour chemicals and basic metals. Xerox had the best weekly performance in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Two stock analysts said the company's earnings should increase because of strong sales of its high-end office copiers.
For the week, the Dow rose 153.93 points, or 1.7 percent, closing at 9,782.46. The S. &P. 500 rose 22.92 points, or 2.2 percent, closing at 1,058.20. The Nasdaq composite rose 66.38 points, or 3.5 percent, to close at 1,960.26.
The 10-year Treasury yield rose to 4.33 percent from 4.16 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable. XeroxNYSE: XRXXerox said earnings would rise next year and in 2005, helped by cost-cutting. The announcement prompted analysts to raise their ratings on the stock.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $12.18WEEK'S CHANGE: +15.56%EST. '03 P/E: 23.07 UniSource EnergyNYSE: UNSUniSource, the owner of Arizona's second-largest utility, agreed to be acquired by a group of investors for $3 billion in cash and assumed debt.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.53WEEK'S CHANGE: +26.44%EST. '03 P/E: 24.29 DanaNYSE: DCNArvinMeritor said it ended its $2.67 billion takeover bid for Dana, a rival auto parts supplier, after Dana's board unanimously rejected a recently sweetened offer.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $16.17WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.80%EST. '03 P/E: 13.40 Staten Island BancorpNYSE: SIBThe company agreed to be bought by Independence Community Bank, based in Brooklyn, for $1.5 billion in cash and stock.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $22.65WEEK'S CHANGE: +12.80%EST. '03 P/E: 20.63 Mylan LaboratoriesNYSE: MYLMylan, a maker of generic drugs, said it would start selling its version of Johnson & Johnson's Duragesic skin-patch painkiller no later than when the patent expires in July.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $25.32WEEK'S CHANGE: +9.52%EST. '03 P/E: 22.23 NikeNYSE: NKENike, the world's biggest maker of athletic shoes, raised its quarterly cash dividend by 43 percent, to 20 cents a share.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $67.25WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.22%EST. '03 P/E: 20.60 Dollar Tree StoresNNM: DLTREarnings for the discount retailer met expectations, but it issued sales estimates for next year that disappointed investors.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $31.72WEEK'S CHANGE: -5.45%EST. '03 P/E: 20.52 WyethNYSE: WYEAn Atlanta jury ruled that the drug maker was not responsible for heart-valve damage sustained by a Georgia woman who said she had taken Pondimin as part of the so-called fen-phen diet pill combination.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $39.40WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.20%EST. '03 P/E: 15.77 (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PHOTOCOPIERS (69%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (59%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



723 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1998 words

HEADLINE: For Home Loans, A Steady Market 

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
THE residential mortgage market continues to be, by historic standards, exceptionally welcoming to borrowers, despite having poked above the 6 percent mark in the benchmark 30-year fixed-rate loan during the summer. It has fluctuated around that level since then, and last week it was at 5.89 percent.
 While there have been only moderate shifts in rates over recent months, there have been other changes in the mortgage market with long-term implications for consumers. The great refinancing boom of recent years appears to be winding down. Adjustable-rate mortgages, typically less popular at a time of low rates, have stirred to life, moving from 14 percent of the market in the first quarter of this year to 26 percent in October. 
 The popular 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was as low as 5.23 percent in mid-June, according to the Freddie Mac weekly mortgage survey. A different survey, compiled by the Mortgage Bankers Association, registered an even-lower rate: 4.99 percent. According to the Freddie Mac report for the week that ended Nov. 28, the 30-year fixed mortgage now averages 5.89 percent, up from 5.83 percent the previous week. Last year at this time, the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 6.13 percent. 
The average for the 15-year fixed-rate mortgage was 5.22 percent last week, up from the previous week's average of 5.17 percent. Last year at this time, the 15-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 5.57 percent. 
Interest rates on one-year adjustable-rate mortgages averaged 3.77 percent last week, increasing from 3.72 a week earlier. This time last year, the one-year ARM averaged 4.19 percent.
Douglas Duncan, the chief economist of the Mortgage Bankers Association, predicted that rates are unlikely to be any higher than 6.5 percent at the end of 2004 and that the average rate for next year would be 6.2 percent. He noted that relative to historical patterns, interest rates of 6 to 6.5 percent on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages are modest. 
The share of adjustable rate mortgages has climbed in recent months, going from 19 percent in July to 25 percent in September and 26 percent last month, according to Freddie Mac, which buys mortgages and repackages them as securities. 
"We're experiencing a major shift toward ARM's," said Steven Schnall, the chief executive of the New York Mortgage Company, adding that ARM's account for about 45 percent of the business at his 15 offices in seven states, including Florida and California. "At least half of our volume" involves jumbo mortgages -- "meaning a mortgage over $322,700 for a one-family," Mr. Schnall said. "Our average jumbo fixed-rate mortgage is about $450,000, although we've also done jumbo mortgages in the $2 million and $3 million range." 
Michael Brooker, a wholesale insurance broker, and his wife, Dawn Teczar, a chiropractor, bought a house at the end of June in New Canaan, Conn., that was built in 1722. The 3,000-square-foot house, which sits on one acre and which has three bedrooms and three bathrooms, cost $589,000. The couple took out a $471,000 30-year adjustable-rate mortgage with an interest rate of 5.25 percent for the first five years, and adjustable yearly thereafter. 
"We bought the house because I wanted space for my office, and this house has an office attached to the house," Dr. Teczar said, adding that they also wanted space for their 9-month-old son, Alexander. 
The most visible change in the mortgage landscape is the steep drop in the share of mortgages that are refinancings. Refinancings accounted for 75 percent of all new mortgage loans as of June, according to Frank Nothaft, the chief economist of Freddie Mac, but refinancing applications now account for less than 50 percent and are likely to fall to about 33 percent in 2004. "That is still a lot of refinances, Mr. Nothaft added, "but not compared with the past few years. 
The falloff in refinancing has taken a toll on mortgage brokers and lenders. John E. Manning, a mortgage broker in Brooklyn, said that refinancing had accounted for two-thirds of his business until recently, but the refinancing share of his loans has now dropped by about half.
Stephen Crouse, a mortgage broker who owns C-T Associates in New Canaan, Conn., said that his refinancing activity and business in general are down 40 percent to 50 percent, but home purchases remain strong. "Although the total amount of purchases and refis is lower than business was before all the refinancing," he said, "the good part is that purchases have been increasing, so we're depending more on them than on the refinances."
Likewise, Eileen Witschger, a mortgage broker in Queens, said that her refinances had decreased significantly, but her purchases had picked up.
Robert J. Kerning, a mortgage broker in Valley Stream, Long Island, said that while business is down, largely because of the drop in refinancings, "people in this area are taking large loans, because the price of houses is through the roof."
Anne-Louise De Palo, a mortgage broker in Staten Island, said that her business had fallen about 20 percent because of the drop in refinances. 
Richard J. Russell, the president of Richland Equity Resources in Manhattan, said that his refinancing business had dropped about 40 percent. "But there are still people out there who didn't take advantage of refinancing when rates were rock bottom," he added, "so they're refinancing now, even though interest rates are a little higher."
The drop in refinancings, economists and mortgage brokers say, is attributable not only to the increase in interest rates, however modest, but even more to the fact that many homeowners have already refinanced their mortgages -- sometimes several times. In 2001 and 2002, refinancings totaled about 25 million loans, according to Mr. Nothaft, the Freddie Mac economist.

Harvesting Equity
Fewer Refinancings Involve Taking Cash
While more than half of those refinancing did so largely to reduce their monthly payments or to shorten the terms of their mortgages, according to mortgage brokers, lenders and economists who track mortgages, many homeowners who refinanced also cashed out part of their equity for a variety of purposes from improving their homes, paying off debt, financing college educations and buying a second home to less-lasting uses.
But cash-outs represent a smaller proportion of refinancings, according to Amy Crews Cutts, Freddie Mac's deputy chief economist.
"The cash-out share of refinancing this quarter remained at the same historically low level of 32 percent as last quarter," Ms. Cutts said, "as homeowners continued to refinance primarily for the low rate, rather than to take money out of their homes."
One such owner was A. E. Ferreira, who lives in Manhattan. The owner of a co-op and a condo, Ms. Ferreira refinanced both properties two months ago. In order to lower her 11 percent rate on the co-op, she took out an adjustable loan of 4.25 percent that is subject to revision monthly, with a lifetime cap of 8.95 percent. And to lower the rate on her condominium, which was also 11 percent, she took out 15-year fixed-rate mortgage at 5.25 percent.
"But I didn't take out money," Ms. Ferreira added," because I'm not yet confident about the economy."
Even at a time when rates are rising, said Mr. Duncan of the Mortgage Bankers Association, "there are still some people who refinance their first mortgage.
"We saw evidence of that in 1999 and 2000, while total refinances were way down, as much as 80 percent of people who did refinance in those higher rate environments refinanced for the purpose of extracting equity, and at a slightly higher average rate than on the previous mortgage." 
While refinancings are dropping, the basic engine of the mortgage market is strong. "Home sales are near record levels," said Keith Gumbinger, a vice president of HSH Associates, a financial information publisher in Butler, N.J. 
If this year's sales of new single-family homes come anywhere near the National Association of Home Builders forecast of 1,065,000 sales, it will be the best year ever since the association began tracking sales numbers in 1963. The record was set last year when 977,000 new homes were sold, up from 907,000 in 2001. 
"Starts and permits have been running at an elevated pace since the summer," said David Seiders, the chief economist of the home builders group, "and fundamentals suggest that this strong new-home market should carry through into 2004."

Paying Points
Upfront Fees Are Less Onerous
Whether buying new homes or existing properties, borrowers are likely to come face to face with the issue of paying points, although the impact of that confrontation with an upfront fee has lessened in recent years. (Each point represents 1 percent of the loan amount.) 
Simply stated, the higher the points paid upfront, the lower the interest rate on the mortgage and the lower the resulting monthly payments. The size of the monthly payment is a key element used by lenders in determining if a prospective borrower qualifies for a loan. 
"Consumers have never had any great appetite for paying points," Mr. Gumbinger said. "With interest rates as low as they are, it's not necessary for consumers to pay points to lower the interest in order to qualify for a loan."
Another reason for the less frequent use of points, according to Mr. Crouse of C-T Associates in New Canaan, is that "there are many more mortgage brokers with access to a greater number of mortgage lenders than ever before, which enables the consumer to have access to more competitive rates than when banks were the sole provider of mortgages."

Interest-Only Loans
Lower Payments, Entirely Deductible
A type of loan that is becoming somewhat more common, according to Mr. Schnall of New York Mortgage and other brokers, is the interest-only mortgage. Such mortgages enable borrowers to pay only interest each month and none of the principal. But at the end of the interest-only period, the borrower has to pay the principal over the remaining term of the loan.
Michael L. Moskowitz, president of Equity Now, a Manhattan mortgage lender, said interest-only mortgages "account for maybe 5 percent of our business, but most of those loans are in six to seven figures."
But not all interest-only mortgages are in the stratosphere. Deborah and John Murphy of Manhattan, she an interior designer and he a lawyer, took out a five-year $250,000 interest-only mortgage in June with an interest rate of 4.875 percent to buy a condominium in Manhattan. By taking out that loan, from Washington Mutual, they substantially reduced their mortgage payments, although at the end of five years -- whether the value of their apartment has gone up or down -- the Murphys will still owe the lender $250,000. But they can also deduct the $1,015 monthly interest on their income taxes. 
Their loan is saving them $345 a month, compared with a five-year $250,000 conventional loan, which at the time they took out their mortgage carried an interest rate of 5.125 percent. 
Amir Korangy, the publisher of The Real Deal, a magazine about real estate, had a 30-year fixed-rate loan of $115,500 on an investment co-op in Brooklyn with an interest rate of 7.25 percent. So early this month, in order to buy a condominium apartment, also in Brooklyn, he refinanced his loan, taking out a $117,000 monthly adjustable rate loan at 4.25 percent with a lifetime cap of 8.95 percent.
Mr. Korangy has extensive personal experience in financing real estate. In 2000 he bought a Manhattan co-op apartment as his residence, moving from a rental apartment in TriBeCa. To date he has bought a total of six apartments and has sold four of them.
Two of his loans have been adjustables, including an interest-only mortgage he took out last May to buy a brownstone in Washington, D.C., as investment property. "I got an interest-only mortgage so that I could pay as little as possible each month," Mr. Korangy added, "because the house is being refurbished and in several months it will be put back on the market."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Brooker, Dawn Teczar and their son, Alexander, in front of their 1722 house in New Canaan, Conn. (Photo by Norman Y.Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 4) Chart: "30 Years of 30-Year Rates"Interest charges on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages rose in recent months, but have settled back to historically low levels. High: October '81: 18.45%Low: June '03: 5.23% Graph tracks interest rates from 1973 through 2003. (Source by Freddie Mac)(pg. 1) Chart: "Refinancing Outlook: Fading"Percentage of all mortgages represented by refinancing of existing loans. Graph tracks annual average of percentage of all mortgages represented by refinancing of existing loans from 1990 to 2002 and quarterly from 2003 to a projected 2004. Chart: "More Interest in ARM'sThe share of adjustable-rate loans as a percentage of total mortgages has increased in recent months. Graph tracks share of adjustable-rate loans as a percentage of total mortgages since 1995. Chart: "Points Shrink"The upfront fees paid for mortgage loans have declined in recent years. Shown are averages for points -- each point is 1 percent of the value of the mortgage -- charged for 30-year fixed-rate loans. Graph tracks the annual average for points from 1995 to 2002 and monthly for 2003. (Sources by Mortgage Bankers Association of America; Freddie Mac)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (62%) Housing; Interest Rates; Mortgages

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

ORGANIZATION: MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: Edwin Mcdowell

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



724 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1083 words

PERSON: Sir Philip Watts 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
At Shell, Grades for Citizenship

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER

 BODY:
SIR PHILIP WATTS, the chairman of Royal Dutch/Shell, has worked hard to recast a company once reviled for supposed indifference to the environment and human rights as a compassionate corporate citizen.
 But not hard enough, some environmental groups say. They contend that Sir Philip's pilgrimages to international development conferences and his company's gifts of aid to Africa are mostly window dressing. One group has even published an elaborate parody of the company's efforts at full disclosure. 
 Rather than bridle at criticisms, Sir Philip, 58, says simply that "my responsibility is not about public relations, although I have to be aware of it."
Shell's conversion is real, he says, and was begun in 1995 when two extraordinary events shook the company. First, a huge protest movement forced it to abandon its plans to sink an old oil rig, the Brent Spar, in the North Atlantic. Then, in November, it was denounced as doing little to stop the Nigerian government's execution of Ken Saro-Wiwa, a writer and environmentalist who started a campaign against Shell and other oil and gas companies protesting the devastation he said they were causing to the homeland of his ethnic group, the Ogoni.
"That prompted us to search within for the way our company did business," said Sir Philip in an interview at the Ritz-Carlton in Washington, where he announced two new social programs for Nigeria. "We went back to our values and we asked ourselves: Is there anything missing?"
The company decided that it needed to become a better global citizen. Sir Philip, who took over as chairman in July 2001, said his commitment to African development was grounded in a two-year stint as a high school teacher in Sierra Leone, then a newly independent West African nation, when he was a young man. He said he had been struck by the students' eagerness to learn.
"It was the most intense experience of my life," he said. "I still retain a feeling of how Africa could be."
He returned to Africa in the early 1990's as the director of Shell's operations. He left before Mr. Saro-Wiwa was hanged, along with eight other activists, but said that Shell had pleaded with the military authorities to spare him, "to no avail."
But Shell's voice was quiet amid the public outcries that followed, including condemnations from President Bill Clinton, President Nelson Mandela of South Africa and European and African nations. Angry at the company, several human-rights and environmental groups called for a boycott of Shell products.
Sir Philip acknowledged that Shell "had been the strong, silent type." Today, by contrast, he said, "it's engagement, engagement, engagement."
He has taken on the role of good-will ambassador, conferring with Amnesty International, the World Wildlife Fund and Human Rights Watch and showing up at United Nations development conferences.
Under his watch, Shell has become the first oil and gas company to declare that it will not explore or develop oil and gas resources in the natural areas designated by Unesco as "World Heritage" sites. It has acceded to demands by activist groups that it disclose the royalties it pays to foreign countries, so long as the governments approve. And it sets aside $140 million a year for social programs. Almost half of that goes to Africa, mainly to the Niger Delta where Mr. Saro-Wiwa spent his last years campaigning for just such programs.
"We consciously decided in the wake of those earlier experiences that we would insist that business was part of the solution, and refuse to let ourselves be characterized as the problem," Sir Philip said.
Shell's contribution to economic development in poor countries has a pragmatic as well as humanitarian dimension, of course. Corporations are now only too aware of the damage a poor record on the environment or human rights can do to their image and share price. Other oil companies, most notably BP, are taking similar environmental approaches to reviewing their operations and polishing their public faces. 
Sir Philip takes a straight-talk approach to critics' concerns in the annual Shell Report. The report has become famous for disclosing Shell's successes and failures in human rights and environmentalism, including oil spills and community protests, as well as the profits and losses of its multibillion-dollar business. The report discusses Shell's solar energy and wind generation businesses and includes a statement from Mark Malloch Brown, the administrator of the United Nations Development Program, who congratulates Shell for trying to come up with inexpensive heating and cooking oil for poor people.
"I don't know any American oil company that produces anything as comprehensive and candid about its global social responsibility programs as the Shell Report," said Frank Vogl, co-founder of Transparency International, a European watchdog group that tracks corruption around the world. "These people aren't saints, but there is a tremendous level of sincerity behind what Phil Watts is trying to do."
But the Shell Report has also become a big target for critics who say Sir Philip is better at producing glossy brochures than making lasting changes. The 2002 version was called "Meeting the Energy Challenge: The Shell Report." In a parody titled "Failing the Challenge: The Other Shell Report," Tony Juniper, executive director of the environmental group Friends of the Earth, writes that his group initially applauded Shell for its change in direction, and was especially pleased when the company had "done some good thinking on sustainable development."
But Mr. Juniper says he fears that Shell "lacks real commitment to the people whose health and/or livelihoods are threatened by refineries and pipelines" because, he says, the air is still polluted around the company's refineries in Louisiana, Manila and Durban, South Africa.
THAT critique will undoubtedly get a mention in the next real Shell Report. When the nonprofit group Corporate Watch gave Shell a "Greenwash" award for failing to keep its promises, the Shell Report duly noted the distinction.
"We take the criticism seriously, but disagree with Corporate Watch's conclusions," it said.
Sir Philip prefers to emphasize what Shell has accomplished. "The important thing is to learn from our mistakes, move along and do better," he said. "If we can help local contractors qualify for work with Shell where we have refineries, help local universities teach the necessary skills to employ local people, the potential impact is dramatic."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sir Philip Watts, chairman of Royal Dutch/Shell, said events in1995 made his company rethink its approach. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); WRITERS (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (63%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); ETHNICITY (51%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Biographical Information

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Royal Dutch/shell Group

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (94%); RDSA (AMS) (94%); RDS.B (NYSE) (94%); RDS.A (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (94%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%)

BILL CLINTON (52%) Elizabeth Becker; Philip (Sir) Watts

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) AFRICA (95%); NIGERIA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



725 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2446 words

HEADLINE: Those Who Serve, Those Who Are Served 

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ

 BODY:
ON a recent Monday afternoon, men gathered like crows around a black Lamborghini parked outside the Pierre Hotel. Tucked into their dark suits, they all had the conspicuous sheen that comes from a lifetime of elliptical training, beef cheeks and Chateau Margaux.
 The car was up for auction at a black-tie event for 500 people inside the hotel. The men will remain unidentified because this is the Pierre, a province of the old world, where the rich worked hard to stay out of newspapers rather than get in them. 
 The Pierre is one of the few quasi-public domains of true wealth in New York City, the "discreet society sister of the Plaza and the Waldorf," in the words of William Weathersby Jr., an editor at Architectural Record who has completed a book about the hotel. Inside its glass revolving doors dwell those who are served and those who serve. Few see even one side of the Pierre's upstairs-downstairs universe; almost no one sees both. 
 A 41-story Georgian-style structure at Fifth Avenue and 61st Street, the Pierre has the anachronistic appeal of an old castle, with the added benefit of live servants: 66 chefs, 115 housekeepers and a pediatrician from China who will shine your shoes. Rates range from $495 for a 280-square-foot room (no park view) to $3,800 for the 1,300-square-foot Presidential Suite. The hotel goes through an average of 15,000 pounds of freshly laundered linens a day, 40 pounds of foie gras a week, 30,000 stalks of flowers a month. A walk-in refrigerator is devoted solely to Champagne.
 As the holiday party season picks up, the buzz of activity inside the hotel, usually concealed behind an army of doormen and desk attendants, intensifies. As a woman who checks coats at the Pierre put it: "This is mink time. All the minks are coming out of the vaults." Herewith, a few stories from a world that many thought had vanished long ago.
 Hotels like the Pierre aren't built anymore. It was opened in 1930 by a Corsican named Charles Pierre Casalasco with the financial backing of Otto Kahn, E.F. Hutton and Walter P. Chrysler. The Depression drove the hotel into bankruptcy, and after passing through a series of owners, including J. Paul Getty, Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts took over its management in 1981.
 The Pierre has been owned by a co-op since 1959. Thirty of the 76 co-op owners live at the Pierre permanently, their apartments scattered amid the 201 guest rooms. That fact lends the place a familial air that spills over into the bar, which is filled with regulars, and the Cafe Pierre, a restaurant that feels like a private dining room.
 Richard Nixon set up temporary headquarters here after the 1968 election. Truman Capote's story "La Cote Basque, 1965," which got him excommunicated from the swell crowd, features an unflattering episode thought to be based on a thinly disguised William S. Paley slumming at his Pierre pied-a-terre. 
 For a place that still sends notes written only in black ink, the Pierre is decidedly unstuffy. Lizzie Grubman was married here. A cover version of the Guns N' Roses song "Welcome to the Jungle" blared at a bar mitzvah. Siegfried and Roy once brought two tigers that peed on the rug. 
 At the heart of the hotel is the rotunda, an ornate room where afternoon tea is served. On the wall is an odd and elaborate mural, painted in 1967 by Edward Melcarth, that, like the hotel, is the subject of much speculation and little recorded history. Also like the hotel, the mural has an unexpected high-low appeal: on one side is a wild-haired Jackie O, on the other is Erik Estrada posing as a biblical Adam. On the south wall, an unidentified black man in an elegant jacket fingers a golden cross on a chain around his neck. "That was his way of zinging it to high society," said Marco Magrini, a Pierre waiter who is the recognized in-house mural expert. "All men are equal." 
 Maybe. Maybe not. 

The Pampering
 The staff's mantra is do unto others as you would like them to do unto you. This means they will get you into Barney's at any hour of the day or night. The in-house dry cleaners have been known to bend state environmental regulations to get a gentleman his trousers on time. Once, a security guard helped a man load a chair into a cab, not realizing that the chair belonged to the hotel. 
 The new chef at Cafe Pierre, Rafael Gonzalez, a former sous-chef at Jean Georges, will prepare a seven-course tasting menu that may feature a sauteed scallop with caramelized endive and apple in a sea of Beluga caviar, foie gras terrine with spice bread and a 1998 Sauternes, and pumpkin creme brulee. It is well worth it, if a $395 dinner bill won't keep you up at night.
 If a gaggle of teenage girls want cookies at 4 a.m., someone will bake them. One guest has a full-sized fridge brought to her room every time she visits so she can store her TV dinners. Burton Herman, a Boston entrepreneur who stayed at the Pierre an average of 100 nights a year over a quarter of a century, once ordered a club sandwich from room service, and the woman taking his order told him she would put the mayonnaise on the side so he wouldn't get an upset stomach. "It was like a mother was taking care of me," he said. "I'll never forget that."
 The hotel maintains a database of all guests, which enables it to track mayonnaise preferences as well as who prefers limos with tinted windows and who is allergic to the standard-issue Bulgari bath products. 
 The choreography of the day begins sometime after midnight. Before dawn on a recent weekday, a deaf man buffed the Italian marble floor in the lobby in slow, silent arcs. In the basement, an auditor hunched like a buzzard over curls of adding machine paper. A guard paced in a darkened ballroom, guarding a $36,000 projector. By 6 a.m., the doormen have pulled on their white gloves and knotted their Addison on Madison ties. Milton Roldan, a doorman since 1988, can tell from half a block away who's coming to the Pierre and who isn't; "You just get a feeling," he says. 
 Not everything always goes as planned. A room service breakfast for two ($77) arrived with tepid, rubbery eggs and was missing a croissant. Luggage may languish in the lobby for 90 minutes before being delivered to a room (although a note of apology was sent).
 Each morning at 9, about 20 staffers meet to discusswhat Guy J. Rigby, the impeccably dressed general manager, calls "glitches." It's like a medical morbidity and mortality conference, an hourlong dissection of what went wrong, why and what can be done about it. For example, three weeks ago, a guest claimed he lost his only pair of shoes, and a front desk agent took off his own shoes and gave them to the guest. 
 Most of the staff comes from decidedly modest backgrounds, and the hotel is a striking example of trickle-down economics at work. Dishwashers make $18.35 an hour. Employees, most of them unionized, get free meals, as well as health insurance and a 401K. After six months, every employee gets three free nights at a Four Seasons hotel anywhere in the world. Several times a year, management cooks breakfast for the line staff. And speaking of staff. . .

The Bartender
 Joe Dacchille has the slightly watery eyes and ruddiness of a man born to liquor. His father was a bartender at the Biltmore for 47 years. His grandfather was a bartender, at a Coney Island saloon where Jimmy Durante waited on tables. Joe began mixing when he was 11 at the wet bar in his parents' basement in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn.
 In his youth, Mr. Dacchille played ball with Sandy Koufax; they went to Lafayette High School together before Koufax started pitching for the Brooklyn Dodgers, in 1954. In 1956, Mr. Dacchille was signed as a pitcher for the Chicago White Sox. His shoulder gave out before the season started, and he ended up, as he puts it, a member of the bar.
 He has seen martinis come, go and return with odd extravagances like green apples. "To me," he said, with what would have been disdain if he were a man to express such sentiments while on duty, "there is only the classic gin martini." 
 He has served bourbon to Frank Sinatra and kept Jimmy Stewart and Cary Grant warm with scotch. Gorbachev drank pina coladas here. Tony Blair tippled a margarita. But discretion being the better part of a barman's valor, Mr. Dacchille likes to tell stories only about dead people.
 One day Jacqueline Kennedy appeared at his bar. "She wanted a port," he said. "In those days, the rule was any woman with slacks on I couldn't serve." Mrs. Kennedy was wearing a pants suit. "I said, 'I'm sorry, Mrs. Kennedy. I can't serve you.' Her pants suit must have cost $1,000. She said, 'Do you have any idea how much these cost me?"' She never got her port.

The Elevator Operator
 Khady Gueyesall, 44, has been an elevator operator at the Pierre since 1990. "This is my office," she said, gesturing at the mahogany-paneled cabin of her elevator The cracked leather stool in the corner was the improbable site of a marriage proposal, which Ms. Gueyesall brokered through a combination of cunning, good humor and shopping advice.
 On her jacket, Ms. Gueyesall wears a small American flag with a Secret Service crest given to her by a member of Hillary Rodham Clinton's entourage. She can exchange pleasantries in English, French, Spanish, Chinese, Hebrew, German and Japanese. "Do you see that halo?" Beverly Sommer, a resident, said during one ride. "She's an angel."
 Ms. Gueyesall used to sing in her elevator with Lady Mary Fairfax, the Australian newspaper heiress who reportedly sold her penthouse apartment in the Pierre to the financier Martin Zweig for $21 million in the late 90's. Elizabeth Taylor calls her Black Queen.
 Ms. Gueyesall, who was born in Senegal and whose parents made their living by selling vegetables they grew in their garden, named her youngest son Ousseynou Pierre. When he was three months old, he got a $1,000 check from a movie star, whose name Ms. Gueyesall won't reveal. "Open him a bank account," the donor urged. "When he gets older, maybe he can marry me."

The Cop
 A certain room off a certain hallway contains a sliding wooden door behind which rows of keys hang clumped together like fists. They will open every lock in the hotel. Men in suits with tiny radio earpieces pass in and out of this room, where a live feed from the hotel's 45 security cameras plays on three screens.
 John DeRosa, who worked for the New York Police Department for 20 years and the state attorney general's Department of Investigation for 10, has overseen this room since he became the Pierre's security director in 1995. Back when he was a cop, Mr. DeRosa once nailed a man carrying six pounds of cocaine; these days he spends more time making sure drunken wedding guests don't drive their $88,000 cars home.
 Still, he must contend with two truths: Money attracts misery. One night in 1996, a man shot himself in one of the hotel's bathrooms. Mr. DeRosa never learned why the man had come to the Pierre, although he left behind a job, a family and a note. At 7:30 the next morning, the body was rolled out of the employee entrance on 61st Street as the guests rolled in. 
 Money also attracts thieves: About five years ago, a man from a tour group told Mr. DeRosa someone had stolen his attache case from the lobby. "I said, 'What was in it?"' Mr. DeRosa recalled.
 "$200,000 of jewels," the man replied. The thief, who had been part of the tour group, was never caught.
 Although Mr. DeRosa still wears a thick gold ring bearing an N.Y.P.D. detective shield, a suit from Macy's has replaced the overgrown beard and long hair of his past life A few weeks ago, when he took his wife to dinner at the Cafe Pierre, she asked him, "How could you ever leave this?"

The Impresario
 Paul Nicaj, the director of banquet services, was born in Montenegro and began his career as a busboy at the Plaza 34 years ago, at the age of 18. These days he is known as Uncle Paul, and he casts a long shadow in the world of event planning. 
 The Pierre pulls in $20 million a year from special events, more than 4,000 so far this year. Weddings start at $200,000. Mr. Nijac masterminded a bar mitzvah a few years ago in which the 8,526-square-foot Grand Ballroom was dressed up as Times Square on New Year's Eve: decor included a subway turnstile and an actor playing a homeless man. Dick Clark came in and dropped the ball.
 Mr. Nicaj's weeks are a succession of ice sculptures, bridal trains and wine. Gerard Madani, the executive chef, recently led Mr. Nicaj through the wine cellar, which is usually stocked with 12,000 to 15,000 bottles of wine. Mr. Madani put on his glasses and pulled out a bottle of Petrus 1992. "That's the king of kings," he said. The men were quiet for a moment, as if in the wake of a woman. 

The Concierge
 Maurice Dancer grew up in Starkville, Miss., a small college town, and was a modern dancer for 10 years before becoming concierge at the Pierre, a post he has held for nine years. These days he folds his long limbs into Armani suits.
 One of his biggest challenges is convincing guests that New York has other restaurants besides Daniel, Jean Georges, Nobu, the Union Square Cafe and Gramercy Tavern. (Among his latest picks is Mix. "The burger is $65," he said. "So it's nice.")
 Rain is his enemy. Some time ago, a family from London with tickets to "The Lion King" were stood up by their limo on a rainy night. There were no cabs. "I had to do it," said Mr. Dancer, speaking with the fatalism of someone discussing oral surgery. "With all diplomacy, I offered to escort them via subway to the theater. I said, 'The subway is a great New York experience,"' he recalled. "It's something we don't think about at the Pierre, because everyone takes cabs. But millions of people ride the subway every day." Mr. Dancer himself takes the train to work, from his apartment in Hell's Kitchen.
 "I came from humble beginnings," he said. "I'm daily speaking with C.E.O.'s and executives. They are asking for my opinion, my feedback. I've grown tremendously. I've learned so much about life, patience, spirituality." Spirituality? "As a concierge, I'm where people vent," he replied. "If I were not able to be spiritual and centered, I would become a crazy man. But it's not about me. I'm a vessel that allows them to vent. It just goes right off my shoulders."
 Mr. Dancer spends two weeks each year in Starkville with his grandmother, who will turn 101 in January. She lives in a wooden house with no phone and no electricity, although she does have running water. She lives by lantern light. "Nothing hurries her," he said. "You wake up in the morning, give thanks for being alive, and when the sun goes down, it is time to sleep."

GRAPHIC: Photos: WHITE-GLOVE TREATMENT -- The entrance on 61st Street, above; James Riley, head valet, top left; Joe Dacchille, at the bar, left; Khady Gueyesall, foreground, far left, outside her elevator; and, below, Guy J. Rigby, general manager. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 11); ALWAYS PUTTING ON THE RITZ -- Maurice Dancer, chief concierge, top right; Milton Roldan minding the door, below left; and above, the famed Rotunda. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (78%); RESORTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (63%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%) Hotels and Motels; Labor; Housing; Cooperatives

COMPANY: FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Pierre Hotel (NYC)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (50%) Erika Kinetz; Joe Dacchille; Khady Gueyesall

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



726 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF; 
Babylon Feels Republic Has Become Land Hungry

BYLINE:  By Stewart Ain

 BODY:
Claiming that Republic Airport in Farmingdale is seeking to expand by swallowing up adjacent property under the guise of safety, the supervisor of Babylon Town is striking back.
 "We are commissioning a study to look at the 500 acres at Republic Airport to see what areas should be sold off to the private sector for development," said Steven Bellone, the town supervisor. "The airport doesn't need all 500 acres." Mr. Bellone acknowledged that the town did not have the authority to compel the airport, which is owned by the State Transportation Department, to sell off any acreage. 
 In a letter last month to Hugh D. Jones, the airport director, Mr. Bellone asked that all efforts be made to have runway protection zones -- clear areas at the end of each runway -- fall wholly within airport property. And he called for the Transportation Department to impose a moratorium on all airport construction or land acquisition pending the completion of an airport master plan.
Mr. Bellone said that by seeking to block the development of a Stew Leonard's supermarket across the street and to buy 12 acres of adjacent property, the airport is "impacting on the economic viability" of the community.
"They claim it's about safety," he said. "That's nonsense. It's about expansion. They want to operate bigger jets and more frequently in the future, and as a result they are curtailing development around the airport. This is an airport management run amok."
A spokesman for the airport, Gary Lewi, said the effort to buy 12 adjacent acres was strictly for the purpose of creating a runway protection zone. "Safety is not a ruse," he said. 
Mr. Lewi said the airport opposed the proposed location of a Stew Leonard's supermarket on Route 110 because of the "potential threat to every customer who looks up and sees a corporate jet 40 feet over the roof line of Stew Leonard's during a snowstorm."
Mr. Lewi added that the airport "would wholeheartedly embrace Stew Leonard's as a neighbor" if it just shifted its location 300 feet to move out of the flight path. Stewart Ain

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Republic Airport (Long Island, NY)

COMPANY: STEW LEONARD'S LLC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (83%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (83%)

PERSON: Steven Bellone; Stewart Ain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Farmingdale (NY); Babylon (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



727 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
For Benefits Managers, a Very Good Year

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH KELLEHER

 BODY:
FOR small businesses, hiring employees and administering benefits can be big headaches. Gevity HR and Administaff are companies that take on these burdens for other businesses. 
 Shares of each company have soared this year, and some investors contend that they will continue to rise as the economy expands. 
 The typical customer of each company has 13 employees and generally pays a fixed amount per employee. In turn, the two companies oversee health and retirement benefits, payroll and workers' compensation coverage for their clients and help them comply with government rules. 
"Small businesses get killed with this stuff," said Ty Govatos, an analyst at CL King & Associates in New York. "Now, they don't have to push paper; they can make widgets." Administaff, based in Kingwood, Tex., handles benefits for 75,000 employees; Gevity, based in Bradenton, Fla., manages them for 100,000. Both said they expected modest growth in volume in the fourth quarter.
Administaff charges most customers $1,500 a year per worker, while Gevity charges $1,085. Administaff says it earns $25 an employee per month, while Gevity says its own figure is $23. 
Their business is sometimes called staff leasing, though each company said it preferred the term co-employment. Other competitors in the business include 700 privately held companies and a unit of ADP in Roseland, N.J. 
Though up sharply this year, shares of Administaff and Gevity have shown much volatility. Administaff shares fell from $45 in September 2000 to $2 in September 2002. The company had raised prices and lost some customers, saying that its insurance costs rose sharply after Aetna Life Insurance stopped its insurance coverage. On Oct. 31 this year, a jury ruled in Administaff's favor in a suit against Aetna and awarded Administaff $15.5 million in damages.
Administaff shares have risen 149 percent this year, closing on Friday at $14.96.
Gevity shares fell to less than $1 in September 2001, from $27 in April 1998. The company was called Staff Leasing Inc. until August 2001. In the late 1990's, it had a different business model, stressing potential savings in workers' compensation insurance for blue-collar businesses. The company bought insurance at rates appropriate for low-risk businesses and resold it to high-risk businesses, a practice now barred by insurance companies, said Erik Vonk, who became the company's chief executive in April 2002. Mr. Vonk said he changed Gevity's focus to human resources services for white-collar customers. Its stock has risen 455.6 percent this year, closing on Friday at $22.50.
The two companies have come into favor with investors attracted by "the long-term potential and attractive balance sheets, lots of cash and no debt," said Mercedes Sanchez, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Paul J. Sarvadi, chief executive of Administaff, says the company is growing, citing a net increase of 1,000 employees handled by the company in September and predicting that pace would continue.
Tony Tristani, analyst at Halpern Capital Inc. in Austin, Tex., said, "If they maintain 1,000-employees-a-month unit growth, that's huge." He expects 2004 earnings of 70 cents a share and has a 12-month price target of $25 a share. 
James R. Macdonald, an analyst at First Analysis Securities Corporation in Chicago, said Administaff appears to be undervalued, based on its current cash flow and growth prospects.
But Jim Janesky, an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia, said that he did not expect revenue to grow very much soon. While Administaff has generally done a good job in estimating its health care expenses, "it has had to raise prices, in some cases dramatically," he said. 
"That could mean a turnover of clients," he added.
For September, the company reported attrition of 1.6 percent among established customers. It was the first month this year that the figure has been below 2 percent. 
Because Gevity has generally charged less than Administaff, its earnings are likely to grow faster, said James F. Wilson, an analyst at JMP Securities in San Francisco. On Nov. 17, Gevity acquired a division of TeamStaff of Somerset, N.J., adding the accounts of 16,000 employees. Mr. Wilson raised his 2004 earnings-per-share estimate to 89 cents from 83 cents on the news.
JAMES BEHRE, an analyst at the STI Classic Small Cap Growth fund, which holds 270,000 shares of Gevity, predicts that its share price will continue to grow. "If earnings continue to go up, the stock will follow," he said.
Mr. Macdonald is more skeptical. He said the share price had risen too quickly, and that the company had hired more sales managers than it could easily bring into the fold. For example, it added 100 in the third quarter, to a base of 130.
Mr. Vonk said that the company had chosen the new managers carefully, and that they had begun to bring in more business.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Big Gains"The stock prices of two companies that handle payroll and benefits for small businesses have soared this year. Graph tracks the stock prices of Gevity HR and Administaff since January. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); EMPLOYERS EMPLOYEE LIABILITY COVERAGE (89%); INSURANCE (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); DAMAGES (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); JURY TRIALS (72%); BONDS (72%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); VERDICTS (63%) Labor; Stocks and Bonds; Fringe Benefits; Small Business

COMPANY: INSPERITY INC (91%); GEVITY HR INC (85%); C L KING & ASSOCIATES INC (58%); AETNA LIFE INSURANCE CO (54%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Gevity HR; Administaff

TICKER: NSP (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (91%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (91%); NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (85%); SIC8741 MANAGEMENT SERVICES (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: PAUL J SARVADI (58%) Elizabeth Kelleher

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2003 



728 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Iran and Guatemala, 1953-54; 
Revisiting Cold War Coups and Finding Them Costly

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN KINZER

 BODY:
SOON after the C.I.A. installed him as president of Guatemala in 1954, Col. Carlos Castillo Armas visited Washington. He was unusually forthright with Vice President Richard M. Nixon. "Tell me what you want me to do," he said, "and I will do it."
 What the United States wanted in Guatemala -- and in Iran, where the C.I.A. also deposed a government in the early 1950's -- was pro-American stability. In the long run, though, neither Colonel Castillo Armas nor his Iranian counterpart, Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, provided it. Instead, both led their countries away from democracy and toward repression and tragedy. 
 How did this happen? From the perspective of half a century, what is the legacy of these two coups?
Several dozen scholars, including leading experts on Iran and Guatemala, gathered in Chicago this month to consider those questions. Their conclusions were grim. All agreed that both coups -- the first that the C.I.A. carried out -- had terrible long-term effects.
"It's quite clear that the 1953 coup cut short a move toward democracy in Iran," said Mark J. Gasiorowski, a historian at Louisiana State University who began studying that coup in the 1980's. "The United States bears responsibility for this."
Iranians wrote a constitution and elected a parliament early in the 20th century. Their progress toward democracy stopped after the Pahlavi dynasty took the throne with British help in 1921, but resumed after World War II. By the time of the 1953 coup, Iran was more free than at any time before or since.
The verdict on Guatemala was even harsher. Within a few years after the 1954 coup, Guatemala fell into a maelstrom of guerrilla war and state terror in which hundreds of thousands of people died.
"The C.I.A. intervention began a ghastly cycle of violence, assassination and torture in Guatemala," said Stephen G. Rabe, a historian from the University of Texas at Dallas and author of "Eisenhower and Latin America: The Foreign Policy of Anticommunism."
"The Guatemalan intervention of 1954 is the most important event in the history of U.S. relations with Latin America," Mr. Rabe said. "It really set the precedent for later interventions in Cuba, British Guiana, Brazil and Chile. The tactics were the same, the mindset was the same, and in many cases the people who directed those covert interventions were the same."
President Harry S. Truman authorized creation ofthe C.I.A. in 1947, and during his administration it carried out covert actions. Truman refused, however, to authorize the overthrow of governments. That changed when Dwight D. Eisenhower became president in 1953. 
On Aug. 19, 1953, Prime Minister Mohammad Mossadegh of Iran became the first victim of a C.I.A. coup. Ten months later, on June 27, 1954, President Jacobo Arbenz of Guatemala became the second.
The recent Chicago meeting, at Northeastern Illinois University, was the first time scholars have considered these two coups together. Some of the participants have taken anti-interventionist positions in the past, but all are respected scholars in their fields. Several have devoted years to studying either the Guatemala coup or the one in Iran. Some now see them as constituting a single historical moment, the beginning of an era of C.I.A.-backed coups around the world.
Eisenhower ordered these coups for a combination of economic and political reasons. Elected Iranian and Guatemalan leaders had challenged the power of large Western corporations, Mr. Mossadegh by nationalizing the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company and Mr. Arbenz by forcing the United Fruit Company to sell some of its unused land for distribution to peasants. American officials charged that both were leading their countries toward Communism, but recent research suggests that the likelihood of Communist takeovers in Iran and Guatemala was exaggerated. 
Mr. Mossadegh pursued a neutralist foreign policy and cooperated with Communist members of parliament to win approval of social reforms, but was not inclined to socialism. American officials who were assigned to monitor Communist movements in Iran during the 1950's admitted years later that they had routinely overstated the strength of these movements.
Mr. Arbenz was more sympathetic to socialist ideas, and bought weapons from Czechoslovakia after Washington blocked access to other sources. Secretary of State John Foster Dulles sought to link him to a Soviet bid for influence in the Americas. "Fifty years later," Mr. Rabe said, "still no link has been established."
After installing friendly leaders in Iran and Guatemala, the United States lost interest in promoting democracy in either country. "There was no democratic agenda," asserted Cyrus Bina, an economist from the University of Minnesota at Morris. Both countries fell into dictatorship and bloody upheaval.
In Iran, the shah's regime imprisoned dissidents and alienated religious leaders by imposing secular reforms. Many democrats and leftists made common cause with fundamentalist clerics. "The only way they were able to develop was in the mosque," Mr. Bina said.
Fariba Zarinebaf, a historian at Northwestern University, said the most profound long-term result of the 1953 coup may be that it led many Iranian intellectuals to conclude that although Western leaders practiced democracy at home, they were uninterested in promoting it abroad. "The growing disillusion of Iranian intellectuals with the West and with Western-style liberal democracy was a major development in the 1960's and 70's that contributed to the Islamic revolution," she said.
IF the overthrows in Iran and Guatemala marked the beginning of the coup era 50 years ago, this year's invasion of Iraq suggests that the era has ended. Governments like Saddam Hussein's learned to protect themselves against coups, participants at the conference said. "Conditions in the world are more constricting today and it is more difficult, I believe, to pull off coups," said Douglass Cassel, a Northwestern University law professor. In Iraq this year, the United States invaded instead. That option would probably have been closed during the cold war, when the Soviet Union was likely to have opposed it.
During the Clinton administration, American leaders expressed regret for past actions in Iran and Guatemala. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright conceded that the 1953 coup "was clearly a setback for Iran's political development," and that "many Iranians continue to resent this intervention by America." President Clinton said the United States had been wrong to support Guatemalan "military forces and intelligence units engaged in widespread repression," and pledged that it would "never repeat" this mistake.
Susanne Jonas, a professor of Latin American studies from the University of California at Santa Cruz, said the United States should help Guatelamans implement the "truly visionary" peace accords signed there seven years ago after talks sponsored by the United Nations, with American support.
Ms. Jonas urged the Bush administration to give more financial and moral support to the United Nations mission in Guatemala, which oversees the peace process, and to use its influence over Guatemala's military "to push along the agenda of replacing the old repressive apparatus with a new kind of security system."
"This is the only opportunity Guatemala has had since 1954," she said, "and the best one it will have over the next half century."

GRAPHIC: Photos: After they were ousted, Mohammed Mossadegh, above, head on hands, was found guilty of treason and imprisoned in Iran, and Jacobo Arbenz, right, was searched at Guatemala's airport en route to exile. (Photo by Etalaat); (Photo by Francisco Rivera) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); HISTORY (88%); TRENDS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); WRITERS (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%) United States International Relations; Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); NORTHEASTERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY (59%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%) Northeastern Illinois University; Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (73%) Stephen Kinzer; Mohammed Mossadegh; Mohammed Riza (Shah) (1919-80) Pahlevi; Jacobo (1913-71) Arbenz Guzman; Carlos Castillo Armas; Dwight David (1890-1969) Eisenhower

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) GUATEMALA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); GUYANA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHILE (79%); CUBA (72%) Iran; Guatemala; Iran

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



729 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: The Giant Who Shrank: A Post-Communist Tale 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia 

 BODY:
IN the cold light of defeat, Eduard A. Shevardnadze knows what he did wrong as the failed president of Georgia, and he is prepared to acknowledge his mistake openly: too much democracy.
 "Democracy needs steering," he told a German television station after he was driven from office last Sunday by huge, angry crowds of protesters. "It is not good to have too much democracy. I think this was a mistake." 
 Stunned, pale, battered by chants of, "Get out! Get out! Get out!" Mr. Shevardnadze, 75, almost tottered as he walked away from his office -- a long, long fall from his shining moment in history when, as the Soviet foreign minister a generation ago, he helped his country shed its Communist burden.
He had seemed a champion of democracy then, standing side by side with the last Soviet leader, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, and their close partners in Washington as the Berlin wall came down.
"George" was his friend -- George P. Schultz, the secretary of state under President Reagan. So was "Jim" -- James A. Baker III, the secretary of state under President George H. W. Bush.
But when Mr. Baker came to Tbilisi four months ago to try to persuade his old friend to hold an honest parliamentary election and salvage his tattered reputation as a democrat, Mr. Shevardnadze treated him as just another obstacle, making promises he had no intention of keeping.
Then, as his own personal wall seemed about to fall and he hunkered down out of earshot of the shouting crowds, Mr. Baker telephoned him from Washington, but Mr. Shevardnadze refused to take his calls.
It is hard to find anyone with a good word for Mr. Shevardnadze in Tbilisi today. His people are too bitter over years of corruption, cronyism, economic ruin, political manipulation and electoral fraud to spare a kind thought for him.
"We are talking about the transformation of a former democrat, former liberal, once darling-of-the-west President Shevardnadze into a trivial, post-Soviet dictator who ignored the will of his people," said his fiery young protege, Mikhail Saakashvili, 35, who led an Oedipal assault on him and now appears poised to succeed him as president.
In fact his career had even more twists and paradoxes than that, and none of the labels quite apply. One of the unanswered questions about Mr. Shevardnadze is whether, at heart, he really did change.
He entered public life as an aggressive young member of the Communist Party and rose while still in his 30's to head the internal security agencies in Soviet Georgia -- a job only a tough character could handle.
In 1972, at age 44, he became chief of Georgia's Communist Party, a position he held until Mr. Gorbachev picked him in 1985 to be his foreign minister and he reinvented himself as a statesman.
Among Soviet apparatchiks, he was conspicuous for his openness and even introspection. His American counterparts found in him something rare in those perilous cold-war negotiations: good will.
In an interview later with The New York Times, just after he returned to lead Georgia in 1992, he indulged himself in an un-Soviet flight of fancy. "Picasso had his different periods, and other artists too," he said. "I made mistakes, I was sometimes unfair, but what is one supposed to do -- stick with one position to the end? To the death? We have all changed."
In the eyes of many of his countrymen, though, he remained the man he had always been, whether he was dealing with local warlords or secretaries of state.
"He was never a true democrat because he was a person shaped and molded in the Communist system," said George Khutsishvili, a political analyst at the International Center on Conflict and Negotiation here. "He was a bearer of the spirit of the system." He was a pragmatist, politically agile, a man who knew how to tailor his suit to fit the occasion, Mr. Khutsishvili said. But he never really understood the ideas that underlie civil society. "He was tolerant, but he was not a liberal." 
Perhaps so, but he seemed something more than an opportunist or a cynical manipulator. Tolerance was a rare quality among post-Soviet leaders.
"It is difficult to pull the country out of chaos and crisis," he said when he stepped in to try to rescue Georgia from a civil war in 1992. "I know that I am taking a risk."
He succeeded at first, instituting democratic reforms and, with help from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, putting the economy back on its feet.
It was an accomplishment just to hold his country together. There was war in two breakaway provinces, abetted by his former comrades in Moscow. Criminal gangs terrorized the rest of the country. People repeatedly tried to kill him. He barely survived a bombing of his car. Another time, grenades were fired at his motorcade.
He took on all comers and stayed on top.
"He was Babe Ruth playing in the Babe Ruth League," said Lincoln A. Mitchell, director in Georgia of the National Democratic Institute, an American group.
In 1998, though, Georgia lost its markets when the Russian economy collapsed. Taxes went uncollected, salaries went unpaid, public services broke down, unemployment soared. Corruption devoured the country as Mr. Shevardnadze bought off clans and criminal consortiums.
Indeed, one of Georgia's few bright spots was its openness. To an unusual degree among the former Soviet republics, it has had a free press, free association and a lively civil society filled with human rights and good governance groups of all stripes.
IT may well be that Mr. Shevardnadze allowed too much democracy, at least for his own good. His country grew too vigorous and clamorous to be held in the grip of one man.
When he resigned under furious pressure a week ago, he insisted that he was making one last sacrifice for his countrymen.
"It was obvious that what was happening in the country would have triggered bloodshed," he said. "I have never betrayed my people. So I considered it necessary to resign to avoid bloodshed."
Nothing of the sort, said his young rival, Mr. Saakashvili, who all but pushed him out the door. Mr. Shevardnadze had ordered troops to crush the demonstrations, only to be defied, he said. He had tried to flee but found the airports blocked by the crowds.
"We should say that we had a very narrow escape from that situation," Mr. Saakashvili said. "It was at the last, ultimate moment when he said, 'Yes, I'll resign.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters celebrated after forcing Eduard A. Shevardnadze from power last week. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CORRUPTION (71%); RIOTS (71%); ELECTION FRAUD (70%); LIBERALISM (70%); TRENDS (69%); ETHICS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (57%) Politics and Government; Demonstrations and Riots; Ethics; Economic Conditions and Trends; Elections; Frauds and Swindling

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (78%) Seth Mydans; Eduard A (Pres) Shevardnadze

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GEORGIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%) Georgia (Georgian Republic)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



730 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Unbearable Lightness Of Memory 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

 BODY:
They are pretty.
 Pretty and soothing. 
 Soothing and smooth.
Smooth and light.
Light and watery.
The eight designs for a memorial at ground zero, gleaming with hanging candles and translucent tubes and reflecting pools and the smiling faces of those killed on 9/11, aim to transcend. And they succeed. 
They transcend terror. They have the banality of no evil. They represent the triumph of atmosphere over atrocity, mood over meaning. The designs are more concerned with the play of light on water than the play of darkness on life.
They have taken the heaviest event in modern American history and made the lightest memorials.
As I walked around the Winter Garden of the World Financial Center, looking at the finalists in the competition held by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, it was hard to feel any connection to the grotesque evil that had crashed into innocence right outside these windows two years ago, the evil that still radiates from that huge pit and makes you mutter imprecations against Osama bin Laden.
"The designs are horribly, horribly bland," mourned Eric Gibson in The Wall Street Journal.
The ugliness of Al Qaeda's vicious blow to America is obscured by these prettified designs, which look oddly like spas or fancy malls or aromatherapy centers. It's easy to visualize toned women with yoga mats strolling through these New Age pavilions filled with waterfalls and floating trees and sunken gardens and suspended votives. Mass murder dulled by architectural Musak.
The designs are reflections of our psychobabble culture, exuding that horrible and impossible concept, closure. Our grief and anger have been sentimentalized and stripped of a larger historical and moral purpose. 
Even the names of the models sound like books by Deepak Chopra and Marianne Williamson: "Garden of Lights," "Inversion of Light," "Votives in Suspension," "Suspending Memory," "Reflecting Absence," "Passages of Light: The Memorial Cloud." All ambient light and transient emotion -- nothing raw or harsh or rough on which the heart and mind can collide.
The spontaneous memorials that sprang up right after 9/11, both near ground zero and at police and fire stations around the city, had more power and raw passion. What's missing from the designs is some trace of what actually happened on this ground. Why not return that twisted metal skeleton cross to the site, the one that made the World Trade Center ruins such a chilling and indelible memory for the thousands of Americans who flocked to ground zero in the months after the attack?
That's what makes other memorials, like Pearl Harbor's sunken Arizona, which still emits oil bubbles almost 62 years later, and the rebuilt Berlin church that retained its bombed spire, so emotionally affecting. They remain witnesses to the evils of modern history.
The fussy 9/11 designs also lack the power of narrative. With its black marble gravitas, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial tells the anguished story of how America got sucked in deeper and deeper, with the death toll rising along with the memorial's V-shape design.
Like the White House, these designs turn away from examining what went wrong and offer no instruction. How were we so vulnerable to attack? Who are our terrorist foes? Why do they hate us? The Holocaust museum in Washington shows that you do not have to choose between reflection and instruction; it offers both.
There's no darkness in these designs, literally or metaphorically. They have taken death and finality out of this pulverized graveyard.
At a debate last year at Columbia with Daniel Libeskind, the architect whose firm submitted the first plan, which failed to garner support, Leon Wieseltier, the literary editor of The New Republic, suggested that the site itself has so much power that a flag and a void would suffice.
"Lower Manhattan must not be transformed into a vast mausoleum, obviously," he said, "but neither must it be transformed into a theme park for advanced architectural taste."
The memorial cannot be sunshine-and-light therapy to make current generations feel they have moved beyond grief and shock. It must be witness and guide to future generations so they can understand the darkness of what scarred this earth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); AL-QAEDA (76%); HIJACKING (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (68%) Terrorism; Monuments and Memorials; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (77%); DEEPAK CHOPRA (50%) Maureen Dowd

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



731 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: The World: The Talk of Iraq; 
A Conversation on Tiptoes, Wary of Mines

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: AMIRIYA, Iraq 

 BODY:
KNOWING what ordinary Iraqis thought was never easy for Western reporters when Saddam Hussein bestrode the land. Now his secret police and information ministry minders are gone, but not Mr. Hussein himself. So his terror still radiates among Iraqis, many of whom condition their words and actions against the possibility he may return.
 For now, to gauge the real mood of Iraqis, a visitor must listen carefully -- especially when they gather in numbers, wary of what candor may cost if American troops are withdrawn before stability is established. 
 One such conversation developed when a reporter and photographer from The New York Times arrived in Amiriya, just outside Mr. Hussein's principal battlefield testing site, 35 miles southwest of Baghdad. In September, men from the village carried away three radiation testing towers, along with two dangerous steel capsules containing Cobalt 60, and some villagers developed signs of radiation sickness. Amiriya is at the southern end of the Sunni districts near Baghdad that have become, for the Americans, this country's principal badlands. If any village in Iraq should be Saddam country, it is this. 
The conversation involved Muhammad Jasim, 38, who described himself as a farmer but emerged from a modern stone-and-glass house of the kind that were the privilege of Hussein loyalists. He was joined by Muhammad al-Hussein, 60, a farmer with the weathered face of a man who works with animals and crops; by Saddoun Hussein Alawi, 45, yet another farmer; and by Salih Farhan, 29, who said he had been a guard at the battlefield testing site and was now unemployed.
The conversation began with a visitor suggesting that the stakes in Iraq for America were such that Mr. Hussein, despite the insurgency, could not hope to return. Here is what followed.
Mr. Jasim: "Nonsense! Saddam's regime is not collapsing; Saddam is still there, he is still fighting, he will come back."
Mr. Hussein: "Yes, it's true, Saddam is still there, and we count on him, every last man among us. The Americans promised us the world, but we have had nothing from them except their bullets and their bombs. In every way, our situation is getting worse."
Mr. Alawi: "By the grace of Allah, peace be upon him, Saddam will kick the Americans out. . . . Saddam was brave; he was the emir of the Arabs, he was our leader, he was our king."
The men were asked if reports of Mr. Hussein's brutality, and of mass graves, were American fictions. They spoke softly to each other, then resumed.
Mr. Jasim: "Well, O.K., we didn't love Saddam, we have to be honest about it. He was a man of war, and only war: Because of him, I served 12 years in the army, I fought in Iran and Kuwait, I saw many of my fellow Iraqis killed, and what did we get? Nothing! It was a big mistake to attack Iran, and then to invade Kuwait, and it is as a result of that that men like me have seen their lives waste away."
Mr. Hussein: "Yes, it was a big mistake, invading Kuwait. But then, they say it was the Americans who ordered Saddam to do it, just so they could attack him for it afterwards. These things are never what they seem."
Mr. Alawi: "You're quite right, Kuwait was the Americans' fault. But Saddam really destroyed us by going in there like he did. For him, it was always like that. Right up to the end, it was war, then more war, then still more war."
The men were asked whether America should see the drumbeat of attacks on its troops, many of them within a half-hour's drive of Amiriya, as meaning that Iraqis want the troops withdrawn quickly, with power rapidly handed over to the transitional Iraqi authority. 
Mr. Jasim: O.K., let us be honest here. Whatever we may say to foreigners like you, the truth is that we were never really with Saddam; in our hearts, we were always against him. But he is gone; what we are against now is America. It is different. We want the Americans to go home."
Mr. Hussein: "That's right. We wanted America to get rid of Saddam, but we didn't want Americans to trespass in our land. We didn't want the soldiers to come into our villages and break down our doors and defile the honor of our women."
Mr. Jasim: "So tell the Americans that what we want is for them to bring a suitable man to power, an Iraqi the people can trust, a man who will govern us well. Only when they have done that should they leave, and they will do so with our blessing. We don't want them to leave now. It would be chaos."
A crowd had gathered, and now shouted, "Yes, we agree" and, "The Americans should go home, but not right now, not until they have ended all this trouble." 
Mr. Alawi: "Look, we really don't have anything against the Americans. We just don't want them in our homes, in our villages and towns and cities. Perhaps if they pulled back to their military bases, and just stayed to guarantee the peace, things would start to get better."
Mr. Jasim: "The thing is, whatever people tell you, we ordinary people never had got anything from Saddam. He stole the country's wealth, but did he give it to us? No, never! He gave it to his family, and to his tribesmen from Tikrit."
Mr. Alawi: "It's true! My son often used to say bad words about Saddam, and I would tell him to be silent. Then he would say, 'What did Saddam ever do for you? Are you better off because of Saddam? Or are you just frightened?' And he was right. Saddam never did anything for people like us. All he brought was fear."
Mr. Hussein: "Yes! The truth is, Saddam gave us nothing but cruelty, he looked after nobody but his own family. He was a tyrant. He gave us nothing."
Mr. Jasim: "I say a prayer every day, five times a day. 'God, give me five years without wars.' But we will never have peace as long as we must fear Saddam."
Mr. Farhan: "Saddam saturated us in blood, and with weapons. Why would we ever want him back?"
Mr. Jasim: "The truth is, if the Americans had stopped the looters right away, things would never have come to this, with people shooting and bombing them at every chance. Still today, the looting is continuing, and still the Americans do not stop it. But it would make things worse now if they were just to go away."
Soon after, as the reporter moved to leave, some in the crowd asked if the journalists had any baksheesh -- a form of alms commonly sought by the poor. Mr. Jasim moved forward and said he had one more thing to add:
Mr. Jasim: "Tell the Americans everything depends on jobs. Look at us; not a single man among us has a job, not one of us can feed his family properly. . . . So tell the Americans to find us jobs, then everything will begin to improve."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Standing amid looted steel pipes, Muhammad Jasim (in headdress) talked to a reporter and photographer. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARMIES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMED FORCES (70%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Politics and Government 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%) John F Burns; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KUWAIT (79%) Iraq; Amiriya (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 



732 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3782 words

HEADLINE: THEATER; 
Hurricane Kushner Hits The Heartland

BYLINE:  By ALEX ABRAMOVICH; Alex Abramovich writes about culture for Slate and other publications.

 BODY:
WITH two Tony Awards, a Pulitzer Prize and a stack of once-in-a-lifetime reviews, Tony Kushner admits, "I don't need any earthquakes in my life."
 And yet he's heading into the most seismically charged week of his career: his latest work, the semi-autobiographical musical "Caroline, or Change," opens at the Public Theater today; the first half of Mike Nichols's six-hour, star-filled, $60 million adaptation of Mr. Kushner's epic "Angels in America" has its premiere on HBO next Sunday. The cable network, which is also producing an adaptation of Mr. Kushner's play "Homebody/Kabul," is betting heavily that the playwright -- who is a socialist, gay and so very Jewish (according to his friend Maurice Sendak) that "it hurts your eyes" -- is ready for prime time. "Angels" will be broadcast and rebroadcast to more than 30 million homes, and the number of people who see it the very first night should easily outnumber those who have seen the play in the several hundred North American stage productions since it opened on Broadway 10 years ago. 
 It is hard to imagine a more frenetic, suspenseful moment, but Mr. Kushner has a coping strategy: he simply adds more commitments. Three weeks ago, he could be found in Nashville, at Vanderbilt University, a campus where Confederate flags hang proudly in dormitory windows. During a question-and-answer session with a few dozen undergraduates, Mr. Kushner asked as many questions as he answered, spent a good 10 minutes discussing set design with an engineering major and had to be dragged away to an appointment with the school's chancellor. Afterward, he gave a public reading of his latest work-in-progress, "Only We Who Guard the Mystery Shall Be Unhappy," which envisions Laura Bush reading the Grand Inquisitor chapter of "The Brothers Karamazov" to the ghosts of dead Iraqi children.
The reading took place in the university's chapel, before a predominantly middle-aged and elderly audience. What might have been a polarizing performance was greeted with laughter and applause. Later, Mr. Kushner gave thoughtful, lengthy responses to questions about Israel, AIDS and Ralph Nader -- every subject, it seemed, except the theater, which no one in the audience thought to ask about. As the crowd filtered out, an elderly man leaned over to his wife and registered his surprise at Mr. Kushner's performance. "Smart Jew!" he said.

"Getting Mother's Body" by Suzan-Lori Parks
"Following Hadrian: A Second-Century Journey Through the Roman Empire" by Elizabeth Speller
"The Best American Short Stories of the Century" edited by John Updike and Katrina Kenison
"Selected Poems" by Conrad Aiken
"Motherless Brooklyn" by Jonathan Lethem
"The Book of Salt: A Novel" by Monique Truong
"Elective Affinities" by Goethe
"Dry: A Memoir" by Augusten Burroughs
"Horace: A Life" by Peter Levi
"The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" by Mark Twain
"Wintering: A Novel of Sylvia Plath" by Kate Moses
"The Charterhouse of Parma" by Stendhal
-- Books on Tony Kushner's
bedside table
MR. KUSHNER is 47, stands 5 feet 11 inches tall and dresses casually in khakis and crewneck sweaters, unless he is appearing before a large audience, when he wears a dark suit and bow tie. In person, he is as intense and impassioned, but less serious and self-satisfied, than his work and string of accolades might lead you to expect. His conversation is quick, emphatic, torrential -- it comes in complete paragraphs, which themselves come complete with footnotes, jokes and marginalia. The word "dialectic" puts in frequent appearances, and questions about God are liable to be answered with references to 18th-century astronomers.
The verbal barrage is something Mr. Kushner inherited from his mother and perfected as a high school debating champion. He was brought up in Lake Charles, La., in a house that looks very much like the set of "Caroline, or Change." (The character of Caroline herself is modeled, in part, on that of the Kushner family's own maid, Maudi Lee Davis. The boy, Noah, is a conflation of Mr. Kushner and his brother, Eric.) His father is a clarinetist and conductor. His mother, who died of lung cancer shortly after seeing one of the first performances of "Angels in America," at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles, was a bassoonist who recorded with Stravinsky in the 1950's and a gifted amateur actress. Mr. Kushner dates his love of the theater to watching her in local productions of "The Diary of Anne Frank" and "Death of a Salesman."
Mr. Kushner studied literature at Columbia University and contemplated nursing or law as possible career paths. By his senior year, he had immersed himself in Shakespeare, discovered Bertolt Brecht and settled on the theater. For him, art and politics have always gone hand in hand. "Brecht was like a light bulb going off," he says. "He teaches you that withinwhat is apparently a naturally occurring event lies a web of human labor and relationships. He teaches you to see that something can be the thing it's supposed to be, and not, at the same time. I got Marx, I think, through Brecht, and realized that the theater is astonishing in the way it presents that paradoxical sensation."
Most playwrights set their work in offices or living rooms. Mr. Kushner sets his in time, in moments of historical flux and conflict. His first mature play, "A Bright Room Called Day" (1985), takes place during the rise of the Third Reich. "Slavs!," which was written as a coda to "Angels in America," described the collapse of Communism. And "Homebody/Kabul," which had its New York premiere just months after the attacks on Sept. 11, and played earlier this fall in a revised form at the Mark Taper Forum, depicts the effects of postcolonial civil decay in Britain and Afghanistan. "Henry Box Brown, or the Mirror of Slavery," which is scheduled to have its premiere in 2005, ties the British textile industry to the trans-Atlantic slave trade.
Mr. Kushner wrote his earliest plays in the late 1970's and early 80's, while studying directing with a Brecht protege, Carl Weber, at the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, and working the night shift as a switchboard operator for the United Nations Plaza Hotel. His initial critical success came in 1988, two years before Part 1 of "Angels in America" -- "Millennium Approaches" -- was first staged: it was an adaptation of Corneille's phantasmagoria "L'Illusion Comique." By the time "Millennium Approaches" opened on Broadway in 1993, Mr. Kushner was already being considered the country's most ambitious playwright, with comparisons to Eugene O'Neill. Mr. Kushner won a slew of prizes, and Hollywood came calling -- with an offer to rewrite a script for a Flintstones movie, among other projects.
The playwright describes the fruits of success modestly: "I started earning money," he says. "I had less protective insularity. I had to learn how to be public -- something I'm still struggling with. I found it easier to go to parties. I learned how to make speeches, even to enjoy them. My weight went up and down and up and down. I had to learn how to stop worrying about repeating the 'Angels' thing. I spent about three years -- from 1995 to 1998 -- writing a screenplay I shouldn't have tried to write, writing several essays, speaking all over the place, turning 40, making big changes in my personal life. Then I started working on 'Homebody' and 'Caroline' and with Sendak. I overcame at least some of the burden of 'Angels,' I guess."
He also moved beyond theater. To date, he has published poems, criticism, personal essays, political investigations, public addresses, opera librettos, song lyrics and a children's book. In the last two months, he has published three books, with three different publishers: While working on "Brundibar," he also wrote the text for "The Art of Maurice Sendak," a book-length essay that Mr. Sendak considers to be the best appreciation of his work. A third collaboration, with his friend the Village Voice writer Alisa Solomon, is an anthology of progressive Jewish-American responses to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, called "Wrestling With Zion." An essay collection, "Save Your Democratic Citizen Soul!" is forthcoming. 
Today, Mr. Kushner's life seems as stable as his schedule permits. He has a house in Hudson County north of New York City and a three-bedroom apartment in a modern building on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He shares them with MarkHarris, 40, an editor at large at Entertainment Weekly magazine. The couple met five years ago and traded vows at a commitment ceremony last April. 
Mr. Kushner is the rare playwright who can support himself through his theatrical endeavors: a solid run at a regional theater like the Mark Taper Forum brings in $50,000 to $60,000, he says; the HBO "Angels" script, which he rewrote from scratch, brought in much more. "I make a good living," he says. "I'm not rich, I don't want to be rich; I want to be comfortable and insured."
Mr. Kushner wrote the first screen version of "Angels" for the movie director Robert Altman, whose "Nashville" was an influence on the play's episodic structure, but Mr. Altman became occupied with "Short Cuts" and "Ready to Wear." The film director P. J. Hogan and the playwright and screenwriter-director Neil LaBute saw subsequent drafts, but passed on them to make "Muriel's Wedding" and "Nurse Betty," respectively. "I would love to have seen what Altman would have done with it," Mr. LaBute says now. "The mark of something that holds up is it takes the imprints of different directors." 
Despite his forays into film (which include a failed adaptation of one of his favorite children's books, Jan Merrill's "Pushcart War," and an overdue screenplay for the producer Scott Rudin), Mr. Kushner remains loyal to the theatrical world.
He does not have much patience for conversations about the medium's imminent demise. "Eulogies for the theater are what critics write when they're feeling cranky and bored," he says, before reeling off a list of his favorite young playwrights: Christopher Shinn, Robert O'Hara, Betty Shamieh, Rinne Groff, Daniel Goldfarb, Julian Sheppard, Rosemary Moore, Lizzie Olesker, Joe Hortua and Tracey Scott Wilson, among not a few others.
And while the contraction of American theatrical culture is usually blamed on a few familiar factors -- the rise of television, the high cost of mounting and attending productions, a post-Sept. 11 desire on the part of audiences to stay home -- Mr. Kushner has another theory: "Sometimes I think the bad years happen when playwrights, actors and directors are as appalled as everyone else by the world and the misbehavior of our leaders, and dumbstruck, exasperated, flabbergasted. Speechlessness is unavoidable. But we recover, and rage is a good engine for the stage."

"Debt reduction for developing nations."
"Bush out of the White House in 2004, a Democratic House and Senate ASAP, the retirement of Rehnquist, Scalia and Thomas (after a Democrat takes the White House and Democrats take the Senate)."
"The repeal of all the tax cuts of the last three years and a new and equitable corporate and individual tax bill assembled to allow for reasonable and real economic growth (as opposed to stock market booms and crashes and an ever-expanding service economy to cater to debt-ridden middle-class people and the hoggery of the very rich) while making it possible to take care of the American people and its needs."
"Education (FREE! PUBLIC! SUPERB! NURSERY SCHOOL TO Ph.D.!)."
"A renewed and serious peace process in the Mideast, the wall and settlements dismantled and the presence of a real international peacekeeping force to patrol the borders and Jerusalem."
"Genuine global resolve to bring Afghanistan back to life and stabilize Iraq for the Iraqis."
"Instant, free psychoanalysis for everyone who owns or is thinking of purchasing an SUV or a Humvee or any similar ecocidal obscenity."
"An overflowing fund to fight AIDS everywhere on earth."
"Global protection for andadherence to universally accepted principles of human rights, which include reproductive and other freedoms for women and full and equal enfranchisement for sexual minoritarians."
"Gun control! Like, REAL gun control."
-- A partial list of Tony Kushner's current political preoccupations.
WHILE "Angels in America" is an epic -- "very Steven Spielberg," observes a major character, Prior Walter, as the heavens crack open around him -- "Caroline, or Change" is Mr. Kushner's most intimate and autobiographical work. It is a soulful, Southern musical, which fixes its gaze on two families, rather than the entire family of man. The quality the two plays share with the rest of Mr. Kushner's work is the playwright's refusal to acknowledge any barriers between art, politics, religion and his characters' inner lives. And so, in "Angels," set in 1985, a gay man's abandonment of his sick lover expands outward to encompass the Reagan administration's indifference to the AIDS epidemic and, ultimately, to indict a God who has absconded from his creations. In "Caroline," set in 1963, the civil rights era presses inward to create a rift between a black maid -- the eponymous heroine, played by Tonya Pinkins -- and Noah Gellman (Harrison Chad), the young son of a Jewish family that employs but can never quite befriend her. ("Caroline" is directed by George C. Wolfe, who also directed "Angels" on Broadway). In both plays, Mr. Kushner wrestles with characters who are forced to recognize their ties to the world around them and who must brace themselves against history's flood. 
While Mr. Kushner sees "Angels" as his "response to the Reagan counterrevolution, which began in response to the great cultural revolution of the 1960's," he is confident that it will resonate with today's audiences. "Reaganism is still alive and kicking, and doing dreadful damage," he says. "The apocalypse the play anticipates in its darker moments is both metaphoric and real. The world is hotter than it was when I wrote the play. It's crazier. The trouble we're in is, if anything, worse."
This kind of talk -- which appears in Mr. Kushner's plays and his public pronouncements -- has resulted in blistering attacks on both. The conservative writer Andrew Sullivan, who has tangled with Mr. Kushner in print and in public appearances for more than a decade, told me, by e-mail, that the playwright's "1968 gay politics are neither here nor there; they are simply irrelevant to anything going on today."
In 1993, The Washington Times -- which is not known for theater criticism -- warned its readers about "Angels in America": "Despite the Pulitzer Prize it was just awarded, this play is not for White Bread America. It's for people who eat bagels and lox, dress in drag and hate Ronald Reagan."
"I'm partisan, I don't disguise that," Mr. Kushner said during a recent break in rehearsals at the Public Theater. "But I'd defy anyone to take 'Angels' and sum it up. A didactic play is a play with a simple message, simply delivered, over and over again. I preach to the converted -- I don't deny that. I am a person of the left. But I am uncertain about a great many things: what to do next; where change is coming from; what is the meaning of being left in a world like this?" 
At first glance, "Caroline, or Change" looks like one of the smallest, safest bets Mr. Kushner has made: its songs, set to music by Jeanine Tesori, are full of sly nods to Phil Spector, Etta James and Martha and the Vandellas. Its theme -- social and political equality for African-Americans -- is far tamer than that of "Angels." Structurally, Mr. Kushner likens the difference between "Angels" and "Caroline" to a shift from "Bruegel or Asian art -- where there is no vanishing point, the eye is left to simply wander around, and the viewer is given the freedom to organize for her or himself what the event has been -- to Renaissance, single-point perspective." But "Caroline," too, is a deeply progressive play, in that its characters are bound to one another by the wages they pay and receive, and those characters' efforts to recognize the nature of that relationship account for a good part of its dramatic action.
Individual responsibility -- "personal agency" -- figures prominently in Mr. Kushner's thinking. "When you don't act, you act," he says. As a result, the characters he creates are more than crude constructs, or proxies for his own positions. Which perhaps explains why "Angels" has endured, even as many AIDS-related plays have faded from public memory.
"It's not social realism," says the playwright Wendy Wasserstein. "'There's a real character there, there's real humor, warmth, humanity -- that's more than just an agenda." 
They are funny -- and also quite spiritual. Mr. Kushner's politics are tied directly to his tragicomic sense of himself as "both a God-believing Jew and a historical materialist socialist humanist agnostic."

An original screenplay about Eugene O'Neill for the producer Scott Rudin.
"Only We Who Guard the Mystery Shall Be Unhappy." (The Laura Bush play.) "Finished by spring; out by the next election."
"Save Your Democratic Citizen Soul!: Rants, Screeds and Other Public Utterances for Midnight in the Republic," an essay collection. "Also out before the next election."
The play "Henry Box Brown": "Very, very, very, very, very, very long, and finished in two years."
"The Intelligent Homosexual's Guide to Socialism and Capitalism, With a Key to the Scriptures": the next full-length play, intended for Stephen Spinella, opens at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles in 2005. (Mr. Spinella starred as Prior on Broadway in "Angels in America.")
An adaptation of "The Golem": "I've given up on it."
"It's an Undoing World, or Why Should It Be Easy When It Can Be Hard?" A play: "It's about my grandmother's life. A new version is being read at the Jewish Museum in Manhattan on Jan. 27."
"A play about Marx and the Jewish question": "Still toying."
A film of "The Pushcart War": "Completed, went nowhere, my screenplay was no good."
"Dutch Masters," a play about Vermeer: "I've been working on it for years, and there are too many books out now. Maybe I'll go back to it at some point."
Working as an adviser on HBO's "Homebody/Kabul," but not writing the screenplay.
A new collaboration with Jeanine Tesori: "We don't know what it'll be yet."
-- Tony Kushner's list of projects.
THOUGH Mr. Kushner found himself staying at the Public Theater until 2 in the morning during previews for "Caroline, or Change," over the course of a single week he made time for the trip to Nashville, two other school appearances in New York and an afternoon signing for one of his recent collaborations with Mr. Sendak, a children's book called "Brundibar." (It was a long afternoon: the line of parents and children stretched around the block, and Mr. Kushner and Mr. Sendak insisted on chatting with each child and inscribing each book). Mr. Kushner also gave seven interviews, attended a number of social functions and somehow managed to find an hour and a half in which to write. He is surprisingly comfortable with this sort of schedule: in the last 10 years, he has become the kind of public intellectual who does much of his actual thinking in public. 
But he is about to discover the difference between the Public Theater and the mass audience. "Angels in America" is still very much alive onstage; according to Mr. Kushner's publishers, an average of three to five professional productions, and 20 to 30 amateur ones, are mounted each year. These numbers pale next to the audience HBO's broadcast will draw. "It's almost as if HBO had decided that the Wooster Group was going to go straight across America," Ms. Streep said, by telephone from her home in New York. 
Mr. Kushner's partner, Mark Harris, says of Mr. Kushner: "He doesn't get panicked, he doesn't get hysterical, and he doesn't get off point. But calm? He's not mister yoga."
"Is he worried about what he's going to wear?," Mr. Harris asks. "No. Is he freaking out? Sure. I think you'd probably have to go back to the original opening of 'Angels' to find a time when there was this much interest in and scrutiny of his work."
Indeed, the broadcast may serve as a reminder that, 11 years after "Perestroika," the second and final part of "Angels" was completed, and despite the many other works, "Angels in America" remains Mr. Kushner's greatest achievement so far.
"He can coast on 'Angels' for the rest of his life, and should be able to," says Mr. LaBute. "I wish there was more of a European kind of spirit in this country, where people say you're as good as your best work, not your last work. What do you do next? That's a question you get at a film junket before your film is even out. So that will be the biggest hurdle for him. It's been what, 10 years? He's done other work, he's always working on things, but nothing's had the trumpeting magnitude of that."
But Mr. Kushner, who likes to be up and writing by 6 a.m., is so productive that his next challenges might have less to do with finding new projects than choosing among them. Since he is at ease in a number of mediums, his works often jump from one format to the next. One -- "The Intelligent Homosexual's Guide to Socialism and Capitalism, With a Key to the Scriptures" -- started as a novel, morphed into a dramatic monologue, and is currently being rewritten as a full-length play. At the same time, Mr. Kushner is working on his most ambitious project yet -- the three-play, seven-hour slave-trade epic "Henry Box Brown." 
It isn't unusual to see Mr. Kushner sitting in the audience as his plays are performed, and to see audience members giving him notes during intermissions. His collaborations and revisions extend backward in time -- in addition to the Corneille, he has adapted works by Kleist, Goethe, Brecht, the Brothers Grimm and the Yiddish writer S. Ansky. And because of his willingness to let the world intrude on his artistic universe, his own plays are often left open to revision. "Homebody/Kabul" will never be finished, he says: "If I made the play two hours long, it would be more successful, easier to watch and easier to do. And it's changed a lot. But it's maintained its three-and-a-half hour length because it needs to be that long. It needs to claim that amount of stage time for Afghanistan in an American theater." 
"Like everything else," Mr. Kushner says, as he is called away to watch a rehearsal of "Caroline," "playwriting is a dialectical exercise. There's no shake-and-bake formula of this much or that much. Writing is a series of mistakes that you correct. It's always a struggle, and the nice thing about the theater is that you don't have to do it all by yourself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tony Kushner in 1994 with Lisa Peterson, the director of "Slavs!" The play, his coda to "Angels in America," describes the collapse of Communism. (Photo by Tom McGovern for The New York Times)(pg. 6); ABOVE -- Ellen McLaughlin as the angel and Stephen Spinella as Prior Walter in "Perestroika" on Broadway in 1993. (Photo by Joan Marcus); RIGHT -- Linda Emond as the Homebody in "Homebody/Kabul" at the New York Theater Workshop in 2001. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); BELOW -- Tonya Pinkins as Caroline and Harrison Chad as Noah in "Caroline, or Change" at the Public Theater. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 5); It's a big week for Tony Kushner, seen outside the Public Theater: his musical "Caroline, or Change" (with Tonya Pinkins, at top right) opens today, and HBO's "Angels in America" (with Emma Thompson, at right) makes its debut next Sunday. (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); CHILDREN (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (62%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%) Theater; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); MIKE NICHOLS (78%) Tony Kushner; Alex Ambramovich

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2003 

 
