

601 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Finding a Good Deal In San Francisco

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

 BODY:
FINDING a place to buy in San Francisco is a daunting task for all but the wealthy, as housing prices continue to increase despite a shrinking population and job losses from the bursting of the Internet bubble. 
 The average price of a single-family home in San Francisco has risen around 16.5 percent in the last year, to $952,715 from $817,976 in 2003, according to the San Francisco Association of Realtors.
 Sarah Stangle and her husband, Chris Buck, are both from Connecticut and lived in New York City before moving to San Francisco. Having rented in Manhattan and Brooklyn, they didn't want to move 3,000 miles across the country only to be forced 30 miles outside the city because they couldn't afford to buy anything. 
 ''We didn't want another apartment or loft, which is what we were in before,'' said Ms. Stangle, 30, who works in advertising. ''So we focused on neighborhoods in the city where we could afford an outright house.''
 Affording a single-family house in San Francisco's more established neighborhoods -- like Pacific Heights or Noe Valley -- was out of the question for Ms. Stangle and her husband, who works for a nonprofit environmental organization. And with condominium conversions tightly regulated -- only 200 units are allowed to convert each year -- even if Ms. Stangle and Mr. Buck wanted to go that route, their options would still have been limited and expensive.
 To their surprise, single-family homes are available and affordable in San Francisco on the southern side of the city in traditionally working-class neighborhoods where public transportation is less than desirable and the non-Victorian housing stock doesn't make for a ''wish you were here'' postcard. Neighborhoods like Portola, Excelsior and Bay View don't roll off of most agents' tongues, but increasingly, that's where young professional first-time home buyers are ending up. The latter is where Ms. Stangle and Mr. Buck bought their four-bedroom house with a yard and two-car garage for $449,000 in 2002. Though Bay View is only three miles from downtown, it's still considered a peripheral area by most people who didn't grow up there.
 ''If someone wants a house, that's where they have to go,'' said Robin Hubinsky, an agent with Zephyr Real Estate, San Francisco's largest independent real estate agency. ''The housing stock that's out there is 90 percent single-family. If you want a house and you want to pay $600,000 or less, you can't go anywhere else. In some of these 'peripheral areas,' it's great to discover that they're really only peripheral in your mind. In reality, they're safe and stable and community-oriented.'' 
 While there is a small but growing influx of young professionals into these neighborhoods, they're still a long way from gentrified, Mr. Buck said. In addition to some environmental issues from a closed Navy base, Bay View has a high crime rate. 
 For the most part, however, the couple feels completely at home. The first weekend they arrived, one neighbor brought over a plateful of food and another neighbor left a bag of apricots on their front porch harvested from her own tree. 
 Having the space of a house was a great help when Ms. Stangle's mother needed to move in with them because of illness. ''We couldn't even have taken her in if we'd purchased a condo in an established neighborhood,'' Ms. Stangle said. ''There just wouldn't have been room.'' But not only did they have the room, within a year a house across the street came up for sale, which her mother bought for $459,000. ''The amazing part about buying both our houses is that we paid asking price. That is unheard of in San Francisco. Houses are routinely priced $100,000 under value to encourage bidding wars, and that is just exhausting.''
 While houses in these neighborhoods are often sold at asking price, the prices themselves are starting to climb. Single-family homes in District 10, which includes most southern neighborhoods, have increased, on average, by $89,796 in the last year, according to statistics compiled by the San Francisco Association of Realtors. 
 ''Compared to other parts of the city, you can get more house for your money,'' said Piotr Pawlikowski, another Zephyr real estate agent, who recently sold a house in Excelsior to a single professional woman for $710,000. ''Because of that, there is a generational change happening in areas like the Excelsior. But there's no such thing as a bargain in San Francisco.'' 
 Stacey Fowler and her husband, Brian Malenfant, both in their early 30's, lived in a one-bedroom rent-controlled apartment for eight years. Then, when Ms. Fowler became pregnant, they knew they had to make a move. 
 ''There's this whole pocket of neighborhoods, all south, near the freeway and heading toward Candlestick Park,'' Ms. Fowler said. ''They're working-class areas, and the houses were built in the 50's and they just kind of got forgotten about. But once we started looking there, it took us less than a month to find a place.'' They paid $425,000 for a two-bedroom house. Within 18 months, their property, in an area known as the Portola Valley, has appreciated by $100,000, and they're preparing to refinance to take advantage of the increased equity. 
 ''We're right next to McLaren Park,'' Ms. Fowler said. ''Most people don't even know about this park. It has all these rolling hills and trees. When you say where you live, people think it's not a great place, but it's fine. We wanted a diverse neighborhood, and since we moved in, two more families have moved in with babies. So we're very happy.''
 For first-time buyers who are not inclined to live in those neighborhoods, the only other entry point into the San Francisco real estate market is through a tenancy in common. Stephan Alm and his wife, Sara, teamed up with Vahram Massehian and his wife, Daliah, to purchase a two-unit building as a tenancy in common. They share a $750,000 mortgage and have spent about $45,000 getting the property up to code as required by the condo conversion regulations. Pooling their resources was the only way they could enter the real estate market in Bernal Heights, an established neighborhood that sits on a hill overlooking the Mission District.
 ''We looked at a few single-family homes in peripheral areas, and it just didn't meet our needs,'' Mr. Alm said.
 While horror stories of failed tenancy-in-common relationships have pushed some buyers into more affordable neighborhoods where they can purchase a single-family house, the arrangement has worked well for the Massehians and Alms. Both couples are now expecting their first child. ''We're living parallel lives,'' Mr. Massehian said. ''We'll raise the kids together and share that responsibility as well.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 12, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the National Perspectives column on Nov. 28, about San Francisco neighborhoods where houses are still affordable, misstated a neighborhood name at one point, as did the picture caption. The name is Portola. (Portola Valley is a separate town about 35 miles south of San Francisco.) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: RISING PRICES -- Stacey Fowler and Brian Malenfant, left, say their Portola Valley home rose $100,000 in value in the last 18 months. Sarah Stangle and Chris Buck found working-class neighborhoods affordable. (Photographs by Ed Kashi for The New York Times)Map of California highlighting San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



602 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Tackles Issue of Imbalance of Power

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
No institutional concern at the United Nations has been studied more with less to show for it than the need to broaden the membership of the 15-nation Security Council to reflect the world of today rather than the one that existed at the Council's inception nearly 60 years ago.
 The Security Council is action central at the United Nations, the one body that can pass resolutions binding on all 191 members and cut through the delay and obfuscation that can thwart decision-making elsewhere in the ranks.
 Yet its composition is indisputably out of date. Its definitive authority -- the right to cast a veto -- is in the hands of the post-World War II powers of the United States, Britain, France and Russia, as well as China, and out of reach for countries like Brazil, Germany, India and Japan, which have gained economic and regional prominence since 1945. 
 The United Nations recognizes the need of such reform, but it has considered the possibility of ever coming to terms with the issue so remote that it assigned it to a panel called the Open-Ended Working Group, long derided at headquarters as the ''never ending'' committee.
 Now the subject is about to get high profile attention when a panel of 16 international figures commissioned by Secretary General Kofi Annan publishes its recommendations on Thursday on how to update the United Nations to face such 21st-century challenges as terror, failed states, nuclear proliferation, poverty, environmental decay and mass violence and genocide.
 Speaking after a year in which the United Nations and its most powerful constituent, the United States, had fallen into disagreement over Iraq, Mr. Annan announced the establishment of the panel in a speech to the General Assembly on Sept. 23, 2003. ''We have reached a fork in the road,'' he said. ''This may be a moment no less decisive than 1945 itself, when the U.N. was founded.''
 While the 60-page report will address critical issues like amending the charter to permit some uses of pre-emptive force as legitimate acts of self-defense or seeking a definition of terrorist acts that would not allow people to class them as acts of resistance, its section on Security Council reform will be avidly consulted inside the United Nations.
 According to diplomats who have seen it, the report recommends expanding the panel to 24 members with 6 each from the Americas, Africa, Asia and Europe under 2 alternative formulas. The present makeup is 5 permanent veto-bearing members and 10 other countries, elected in annual blocks of 5, which serve two- year terms.
 One of the two suggested options would create a new tier of eight semi-permanent members with renewable four-year terms and one additional conventional two-year term member. The other would expand the number of permanent members to 11 from 5 and the number of those elected to two-year terms by 3.
 Neither option, however, extends granting veto power beyond the existing five countries -- a point that is sure to sharpen the debate in the General Assembly, which seems certain to continue into next summer.
 Changes in the composition of the Security Council must be approved by two-thirds of the 191 United Nations members and ratified by the legislatures of two-thirds of those governments, including those of all five permanent Council members.
 The Council was last expanded, to 15 from 11, in a 1963 General Assembly vote that took effect in 1965. In 1971, Communist China took over the permanent seat on the Council that had been occupied by the Nationalist Chinese. 
 The debate is expected to be intense because of the importance of the issue to many countries that want to be included and possibly just as many that object to the inclusion of others. Bill Rammell, a British Foreign Office minister who presented his country's ideas to the panel this summer, commented on the regional rivalries at work.
 ''For every country you can name,'' he said, ''there are two or three next in line who feel their positions entitle them to frustrate the process.''
 In Africa, the leading contestants are South Africa, Nigeria and Egypt. In the Americas, Mexico and Argentina will have doubts about the primacy of Brazil. In Asia, Pakistan can be expected to oppose India, and China is wary of admitting Japan and, with its veto, could single-handedly keep Tokyo out. 
 Egypt wants Arab and Muslim permanent representation on the Council while Indonesia pressed its case this fall to be considered the voice of what its foreign minister, Hassan Wirajuda, called ''moderate Islam.''
 Italy, which does not want to be the only major Western European country without permanent representation on the Council, has publicly sought to undermine Germany's candidacy. It suggests instead that there be a seat for the European Union, although the charter at the moment recognizes only nation states, not groups of states, as members.
 Japan's is the only candidacy for permanent membership that the United States has endorsed unequivocally. In October, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell appeared to back Brazil's candidacy in a speech in Sao Paulo, but State Department officials pointed out afterward that his expression of support had been carefully worded and conditional.
 Russia pledged its support for Brazil's candidacy during a visit by President Vladimir V. Putin to Brasilia last Monday.
 While the United States is the leading financer of the United Nations, accounting for 22 percent of the budget, Japan is a close second, at 19.5 percent, and Germany third, at 8.7 percent. As for the four other existing permanent members, Britain is at 6.1 percent, France at 6 percent, China at 2.1 and Russia at 1.1.
 There is a widespread perception that this opportunity to deal with the problem will not arise again, and, with that in mind, the front-runners Brazil, Germany, India and Japan this fall formed an aggressive lobby of mutual support to push for permanent membership for themselves and two unnamed countries representing Africa.
 Strategists for the group say they now intend to campaign hard in the General Assembly for full permanent member status with the right to cast vetoes -- a power not assigned in either of the report's options.
 The General Assembly voting will not be on the recommendations but on ballot items honed in the debate that will emerge from them. So while the never-ending conversation on Security Council reform may be nearing completion, there still could be lengthy closing arguments. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); GENOCIDE (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%) United Nations; Security Council (Un); General Assembly (Un); United Nations

PERSON: Warren Hoge

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (76%) North America; Latin America; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Africa; Europe

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



603 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Making Sound Visible

BYLINE: By Benedict Nightingale

 BODY:

ALL IN THE DANCES
A Brief Life of George Balanchine.
By Terry Teachout.
Illustrated. 185 pp. Harcourt. $22.

GEORGE BALANCHINE
The Ballet Maker.
By Robert Gottlieb.
Illustrated. 216 pp. Atlas Books/
HarperCollins Publishers. $19.95.
 CENTENARIES tend to have as strong an effect on would-be biographers as north poles on compasses, so it's not surprising to find two accounts of the life and art of George Balanchine, who was born in St. Petersburg in 1904, published more or less simultaneously in his adoptive country. After all, if any single person is responsible for the creation and continuing health of neoclassical ballet in America, it's this ''titan,'' this ''god,'' as Terry Teachout and Robert Gottlieb respectively call him.
 Each biographer writes well and writes short, and, although Teachout is the more specific about his aims, each clearly hopes to reach the layman rather than the sort of aficionado who flits between Miami City Ballet, the Pacific Northwest Ballet and the other companies that keep alive the flame Balanchine lighted in New York. Moreover, each man had a personal epiphany when he first encountered his work: Gottlieb ''elated'' by the discovery of ''Orpheus'' and ''The Four Temperaments'' in the late 1940's, Teachout bug-eyed at the ''miracle'' of ''Concerto Barocco'' in 1987. Ballet, they discovered, need not be ornamental, precious, exquisitely European. It could be direct, dynamic, American.
 Which book offers the better value? Well, both writers rely a great deal on secondary sources, notably Bernard Taper's biography of Balanchine. Teachout is the drama critic of The Wall Street Journal, the music critic of Commentary and the author of ''The Skeptic,'' a life of H. L. Mencken; Gottlieb, the former editor in chief of Knopf and The New Yorker and the dance critic for The New York Observer, knew the choreographer personally, served on the board of his New York City Ballet and has had firsthand conversations with many of those who danced or worked for him. Though he might have shared more of the anecdotes Balanchine attracted, and doesn't convey as much sheer excitement as Teachout, I'd recommend Gottlieb's book for its authority, completeness and articulate excellence.
 There are few if any differences in the writers' accounts of Balanchine's life. The young George was destined for the Russian Navy but applied too late for entry to the Imperial Academy and, having never seen a ballet in his life, found himself unwillingly studying the dance instead. Then he lost most members of his immediate family, never to see them again. His father left St. Petersburg, followed by his mother and sister, leaving him alone with his aunt in a city that was soon racked by revolution and mass starvation. According to Gottlieb, he had to steal, scavenge and maybe eat cats to survive.
 Balanchine also danced, started to choreograph, made the first of his four (or five, if you count one that was never formalized) marriages, left Russia with his wife and two other dancers and, after struggles and privations galore, became Diaghilev's ballet master in Monaco. Indeed, he had built a pan-European reputation by 1933, when destiny called in the form of an earnest Bostonian balletomane called Lincoln Kirstein. He was to stage-manage the rest of Balanchine's career: the formation of the School of American Ballet, the founding of New York City Ballet and all.
 What kind of man proceeded to establish America as a world power in dance and what made him professionally so remarkable? Both biographers give broadly the same answers to these questions. Balanchine's experience of genuine crisis combined with his religious faith to make him a man who was as calm, controlled and courteous to his dancers as the man who was to become his principal associate, Jerome Robbins, was frantic and bullying. (''He will teach you how not to treat people'' was Balanchine's wry remark about a man he did, in fact, greatly admire.)
 But the rejections of his boyhood took an inevitable toll. ''I can't cope with human relationships,'' Balanchine once said, and, for all his geniality and sense of fun, he struck people as basically lonely, damaged and needy. He adored gifted, beautiful and very young women, developed the habit of (Allegra Kent's sly dig) ''adding more Lolitas to his ballerina gallery'' and was devastated when they resisted or, worse, abandoned him. Indeed, the only seriously bad behavior either biographer attributes to a man noted for an almost unworldly integrity came when his beloved Suzanne Farrell married a fellow dancer, Paul Mejia. Balanchine snubbed her and withheld roles from her husband, leading them to resign -- and it wasn't until several years later that he managed to apologize and readmit his most brilliant ballerina to a company that was missing her.
 He had no great liking for men, regarding male dancers as mere ''attendants'' to the all-important ballerinas, and belittled even Baryshnikov when he came to add luster to City Ballet. But Balanchine's possessive passion for women was clearly more evident in the rehearsal room than in the bedroom. He was a sentimental Pygmalion, not a voluptuous Casanova, who maddened some of his ''nymphs'' by putting them on pedestals and expecting them to submit to his creativity. And yet, as seems always to have been the case with Balanchine, the evidence isn't straightforward. Few men would have been equally caring when his last wife, Tanaquil Le Clercq, developed career-ending polio. And, of course, his gynocentric belief that ballet was essentially a ''female thing'' produced extraordinary results.
 What initially drew Balanchine to America was the pace, the bustle, the tall buildings and tall girls, and they all found their way into his work. Speed, energy, economy of costume and decor, acrobatic adventure, imaginative raciness became and remained his hallmarks. He got the best out of Le Clercq, Vera Zorina and Maria Tallchief, all of whom he married, and Kent, Farrell, Diana Adams and Patricia McBride, whom he didn't. One is also tempted to say he got the best out of Stravinsky, who was his friend and, in his view, the finest of the bold and often difficult composers he choreographed. Balanchine's version of ''The Nutcracker'' may have given City Ballet its biggest hit, but ''Orpheus,'' ''Agon,'' ''Jewels,'' a reworked ''Firebird'' and his other collaborations with his fellow Russian were among the most exhilaratingly adventurous.
 The point about Balanchine, as both Teachout and Gottlieb emphasize, is that he was an excellent musician himself. Indeed, both quote Martha Graham: ''The music passes through him, and in the same natural yet marvelous way that a prism refracts light, he refracts music into dance.'' Not everything worked well -- Gottlieb recalls a hilarious episode in which Balanchine tried to create a ballet with some elephants that kept bellowing out their loathing of Stravinsky's music -- and the old accusation that he was ill at ease with narrative still sometimes surfaces today. But even those who found him too abstract had to marvel at the unstoppable inventiveness with which, as Teachout puts it, he made sound visible.
 One emerges from both books without a clear view of a very hidden man, but with a very clear one of the choreographer. There he is, in the choreographer Ruthanna Boris's words, ''a bee among flowers,'' happily organizing and reorganizing bodies while stimulating minds through metaphor: ''press like you're pressing on the accelerator of an MG''; ''serve a glass of Champagne on your heel''; ''is like fly in glass of milk''; ''icons . . . Byzantine icons''; ''an eagle on a perch, on a rock, looking down from a crag.'' The last of these was actually aimed at Edward Villella, who was rehearsing Apollo, but could as well apply to the master himself. He's still up there, his beaklike nose raised, looking down on the progeny he inspired.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Balanchine rehearsing Mikhail Baryshnikov in ''Orpheus,'' 1980. (Photograph by Costas/from ''All In The Dances'')
 (Photograph by New York City Ballet Archive/from ''George Balanchine'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BALLET (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); LITERATURE (77%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (77%); MUSIC (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); MUSIC REVIEWS (63%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Benedict Nightingale; George (1904-83) Balanchine; Terry Teachout; Robert Gottlieb

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); MIAMI, FL, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (77%); WEST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



604 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2577 words

HEADLINE: The Return of the Trucks. Maybe

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

DATELINE: LAMBERTVILLE 

 BODY:
AT one time, trucks rumbling by the quaint antique stores and tony restaurants here were a common though jarring sight. 
 Since a state ban took effect four years ago, however, the trucks on secondary highways like Route 29 are there for one reason: to make local deliveries. But like the swallows returning to Capistrano, those big rigs may soon be flocking back to New Jersey's rural highways.
 The federal District Court in Newark ruled in March that the state's truck ban is a violation of the Constitution's protection of interstate commerce. And although Judge Stanley R. Chesler allowed the ban to stay in place while the state appealed his decision to the 3rd Circuit Court in Philadelphia, his ruling clearly indicated the law does not pass constitutional muster. A final decision from the circuit court is expected early next year. 
 The effect of trucks can easily be seen a quick drive along what is called New Jersey's access highways -- roads like Route 206, which are a hybrid between a limited access highway and a gigantic, incredibly busy main street. Just before rush hour this month, cars crowded along Route 29, a colonial-era road that curves beside the forested banks of the Delaware River. As the sedans and S.U.V.'s zipped north, a heavy truck rumbled in the opposite direction, filling the southbound lane and shouldering the smaller vehicles over like a lineman passing a crowd of nervous fans.
 ''Some people are uncomfortable driving with large trucks,'' said Pam Maiolo, a spokeswoman for AAA Mid-Atlantic, which has nearly a million members in New Jersey. ''Because they are so much larger, accelerating, slowing and turning take much more than a midsized vehicle.''
 Even the best-natured drivers find it difficult to enjoy sharing the road with trucks -- stalling traffic at lights and looming up like a thundercloud in the rearview mirror -- but few state businesses could survive without their deliveries. And truckers are quick to point out that the big rigs are statistically much safer than cars, with only a tiny fraction of accidents involving heavy trucks. 
 Still, statistics from the state Department of Transportation show the truck ban has cut accidents and reduced congestion on the state's secondary highways. One state study shows the ban detoured more than 500 rigs a day from Route 31, a road truckers used to avoid the tolls on the New Jersey Turnpike before the ban.
 Trucking companies say Judge Chesler's decision is a victory for fairness. Because the ban only applies to trucks from out of state, those operators say, trucking companies based in the state save money on tolls and gas by taking shortcuts. Interstate truckers say they spend an extra $20 million a year because of tolls and additional mileage.
 Moreover, the interstate truckers are quick to point out how crucial shipping is to the state's economy. Indeed, the New Jersey Motor Truck Association says the industry employs 252,000 people in the state, or roughly one in every 14 jobs.

'Trying to Create a Balance'
 Jack Lettiere, the state's transportation commissioner, agreed that the ban does increase costs for some interstate truckers. But Mr. Lettiere said the state had the right to pass rules to protect the safety of New Jersey drivers, something the court acknowledged the ban accomplished.
 ''We are trying to create a balance,'' he said. ''We are trying to protect the quality of life for our residents and provide for the efficient movement of freight.''
 On a recent evening, Mayor Dave Del Vecchio pointed at a small video store here across the busy intersection of Route 29 and Bridge Street.
 On May 12, 2000, a runaway trash truck picked up speed from the steep hill that leads into Lambertville and hurtled through the intersection and slammed through the front of the video store, injuring four customers and crushing the clerk, Joan Eshen, behind the counter. 
 Mayor Del Vecchio said it was like a scene from a disaster movie.
 ''The truck's cab was actually inside the building,'' he said. 
 The mayor said people in the area were even more outraged when they learned the truck had been delivering trash from New York to a landfill in Pennsylvania. He said residents were fed up with trucks rumbling down the narrow highway, which many people view as more of a local street than an interstate connection.
 ''We have schools, we have recreation fields, we have businesses all along this road,'' said Mr. Del Vecchio, who has been mayor for 13 years. ''It should not take a loss of life or of property for this to make sense.''
 A ban on interstate trucks was already in place for most of the state's secondary highways at the time of the accident, but the death of Ms. Eshen so outraged legislators that they passed a special law banning interstate truckers from Route 29. 
 Four years after the crash, the mayor's anger over the accident is still palpable. Still, Mr. Del Vecchio -- a construction company executive -- is quick to say he does not want to ban all trucks from the roads since he is aware of how important trucks are to the state's economy.
 ''We are not trying to hurt anyone's business or to hurt the trucking industry,'' Mr. Del Vecchio said. 
 But Mr. Del Vecchio, like many mayors, objects to truckers using their towns as a shortcut to avoid Turnpike tolls. 
 ''It is a quality-of-life issue,'' said William G. Dressel Jr., executive director of the State League of Municipalities. ''These large rigs going down the secondary roads through rural and suburban communities are wreaking havoc.''
 The mayors are not the only ones with concerns about the tractor trailers. State transportation officials say the heavy trucks pound the highways to pieces, causing damage far greater than normal traffic. 
 ''The impact of heavy trucks on the roads is enormous,'' said Mr. Lettiere, the transportation commissioner. ''A heavy truck will beat up a road almost 100 times faster than a regular size automobile.''
 Mr. Lettiere also said the big rigs add congestion to roads that are already packed with commuters. Roads like Route 206 frequently squeeze from two lanes to one lane as they pass through towns like Lawrenceville. Big trucks not only take up more room than passenger cars, they take longer to get up to speed after the lights that frequently dot the secondary highways.
 ''One truck at that speed is the equivalent of six cars,'' the commissioner said. ''It creates massive congestion.''

Inescapable Safety Problem
 There is also an inescapable safety problem. No matter how skilled the driver, tractor trailers are not as easy to maneuver as cars. And, Mr. Lettiere said, the performance differences between trucks and cars create an inevitable friction on smaller roads, where there is less room for the trucks to stop or steer.
 ''Truck drivers are professionals and they know how to handle these things,'' he said. ''But when you get two different sized vehicles on the same highway going different speeds, it presents a safety hazard.''
 For their part, state transportation officials contend that the facts back up their case. According to the state's data, there were twice as many truck accidents on state and county roads as compared with interstates before the ban. The data also showed about 25 percent of the trucks on the secondary highways were merely passing through.
 Spend a few hours at a Turnpike rest stop, and it is hard not to understand the plight of truckers like Frank Kalna. 
 Mr. Kalna, who has been driving a truck out of Pennsylvania for 18 years, spends long hours dodging sports cars and avoiding drivers with cellphones glued to their ears. A polite and plain-spoken man, Mr. Kalna says truckers are being stretched by increasing regulations, rising gas prices and tighter schedules.

Interstate Drivers Are Irked
 New Jersey's decision to ban trucks from secondary highways has forced drivers to make longer trips and pay more in tolls. That particularly irks Mr. Kalna, who contends that his trucking company helps pay to maintain the roads with gas taxes and registration fees. (Truckers registration fees are paid to states based on the amount of miles they drive in the state.)
 ''They are making it hard on the trucking industry,'' he said. ''It is unconstitutional. That is what they built these roads for.''
 At any truck stop, drivers complain about restrictions on their travel across the state. They range from interstate drivers like Mr. Kalna, who say the rules add miles to their routes, to local truckers like Frank Cruz, who say that when they drive secondary highways they are frequently stopped and asked to prove they have in destination in New Jersey.
 ''I think they just don't want us on these roads,'' said Mr. Cruz, who operates from Bayonne to South Jersey.
 The Department of Transportation says there are three primary patterns of interstate trucks passing through New Jersey. Drivers moving east or west through the state usually stick to Interstates 78 or 80 and are unaffected by the ban. But truckers following the other two paths -- connecting the southwestern corner of the state with upstate New York or New England -- are affected, because the span eliminates shortcuts that once allowed them to avoid the $26.55 toll on the New Jersey Turnpike.
 When the state implemented the ban in 1999, transportation officials were particularly concerned about trucks cutting between Interstate 95 near Trenton and Interstate 287 south of Morristown. Instead of paying the Turnpike tolls, the truckers were using roads like Route 31 and Route 206.
 To keep the trucks on the main road, the state set new rules restricting interstate drivers to a 546-mile road system known as the national network. Those roads include the major interstates, like the Turnpike and Interstates 287 and Route 80. Drivers who were making a delivery or a pickup in New Jersey could still use the secondary highways. 
 The mayors were delighted to get the heavy trucks off their roads, but truckers argued that out-of-state drivers were unfairly penalized.
 ''This was a knee-jerk reaction from politicians,'' said Larry Daniel, president of America's Independent Truckers Association, a 25,000-member organization based in Clinton, Miss. ''If someone was killed in a bicycle accident, would they outlaw bicycles on these roads?''
 The American Trucking Association sued the state in 2000, claiming the rules were unconstitutional because they gave an unfair advantage to New Jersey trucking companies. Because New Jersey was the first state to restrict interstate trucks, the association was also concerned the rules could spread.
 ''It sets a bad precedent to allow a state to reserve roads for its own trucks and its own shippers and to tell out-of-state companies to use a different set of roads,'' said Robert Diggs, the deputy general counsel for the American Trucking Association, a Washington-based group representing about 2,000 trucking companies. ''This is discriminatory; trucks that are servicing New Jersey commerce or shippers in New Jersey are getting preferential treatment.''
 Mr. Diggs said experts hired by his organization estimated that the rules cost interstate truckers around $20 million a year in increased fuel, tolls and vehicle wear by forcing them to take a longer route. The state's estimate was lower, but was still roughly $5 million a year. 
 ''Their expert acknowledged that on certain routes, trucks would have to take longer routes, spend more time on the road, and it would cost more money,'' Mr. Diggs said.
 One state study showed that for a round trip between Philadelphia and New York, the national network would require an interstate trucker to drive 56 miles longer and pay an additional $44.36 in tolls.
 Mr. Diggs said the trucking organization is not disputing New Jersey's right to restrict heavy trucks to certain highways, but added that the state needed to come up with a way to make the restrictions fair to all trucking companies.

'This Is Discriminatory'
 ''What the state has never acknowledged is this is discriminatory,'' he said.
 The Constitution gives Congress the right to regulate commerce ''among the several states,'' and the courts have interpreted this to mean states cannot pass regulations that favor their own businesses over out-of-state companies.
 In the federal District Court in Newark, the American Trucking Association argued that New Jersey's rules allowed its shipping companies to use cheaper, secondary highways while forcing interstate truckers to keep to the national network. The state countered by saying that it had the right to set highway regulations to protect its citizens.
 In his decision this year, Judge Chesler noted that the truck rules had, in fact, decreased the number of truck accidents along roads like Route 31. And he said the state had a valid purpose in setting the regulations based on safety.
 But the judge asked whether it was possible for the state to provide the same degree of safety without giving an unfair advantage to New Jersey trucking companies. The trucking association argued that the state should simply enforce the ban against all trucks by requiring in-state companies to avoid secondary highways as much as possible. For example, the state could require local truckers to take a direct route from their New Jersey depots to the state highway system rather than allowing the New Jersey drivers to cross the state on roads like Route 206.
 Mark T. Holmes, the deputy attorney general who represented the state in the trucking case, said it would be too difficult for police officers to determine whether truckers were taking the most direct route to the national system, and would lead to disputes and litigation as trucking companies appealed tickets.
 Judge Chesler found the argument unpersuasive. ''Surely law enforcement officials, who are entrusted with the discretion to make nuanced determinations of probable cause, as just one example, would be capable of enforcing such a regulation,'' he wrote.
 In fact, the judge said he suspected that the motive in resisting such a change owed more to political pressure from in-state trucking companies than law enforcement concerns.
 ''The exemptions smack of a compromise between forces in the state that seek to limit congestion on New Jersey highways and forces within the state that complain that a more evenhanded general limit on the use of the New Jersey Access Network would be unduly burdensome to in-state business,'' he wrote.
 The judge found that the current ban was clearly discriminatory, and unconstitutional. Unless New Jersey could find a way to apply the ban to all truckers, he wrote, it would have to go.
 New Jersey officials say they are prepared to change the law if it is upheld by the circuit court this spring. Most likely, changes will have to be made in the State Legislature. From his opinion, Judge Chesler seems to feel the only solution is to ban New Jersey truckers as well as interstate drivers from the smaller highways.
 ''He gave us a roadmap how he felt it could be done,'' Mr. Holmes said.
 Assemblyman John S. Wisniewski, chairman of the Assembly Transportation Committee, said he thinks it is possible to reach a compromise that reduces congestion on the highways and also withstands legal challenges.
 ''If the court says that what New Jersey did did not meet with the law, it does not mean we cannot go back recraft something,'' he said. ''We have to look at what the court says we can do and move on from that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In 2000, a runaway trash truck picked up speed from a steep hill and hurtled through an intersection in Lambertville, slamming through the front of a video store. A clerk was killed, and four customers were injured. (Photo by David Hulshizer/Associated Press)
''It should not take a loss of life or of property for this to make sense,'' says Mayor David Del Vecchio of Lambertville, who wants to keep big rigs from secondary roads. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 Large gravel trucks make their way down Route 29, a narrow road that snakes along the Delaware River in Lambertville. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); TRUCKING (89%); TRUCK SAFETY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (73%) Roads and Traffic; Trucks and Trucking; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (54%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (54%)

PERSON: JOHN SULLIVAN (55%) John Sullivan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



605 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: The Accidental New Jerseyite

 BODY:
I'LL admit it: I have never, not even for a minute, entertained the notion of moving to New Jersey. Why would I? Born and bred in the Bronx, I took pride in my Big Apple citizenship for 30 of my 40 years, save a brief college residency in Ohio and a subsequent misguided detour throughout parts of New England. 
 Where else, I sometimes wondered, could a venture out to buy cheese morph into a meandering stroll through multiple neighborhoods, a heart-to-heart with the local U.P.S. guy, a 10-minute dissertation on aesthetics by a scholarly mozzarella maker and a chance encounter with the chef Mario Batali, out trolling for olives?
 Throughout the 90's my husband and I, and eventually our daughter, lived in a tree-lined section of Brooklyn that felt like a small town, yet was only a subway stop or two away from the bustle of Lower Manhattan. 
 We had no desire to leave. We had more smart, thoughtful friends than we had time to see, and a wonderful school for our daughter. We also had a great meat place, a great cheese place, a great bread place, a great nut place, a great produce place and a great wine place -- all within a 15-block radius of our apartment. 
 Occasionally I'd get to chatting with somebody who would reveal plans to move to New Jersey where less money could buy more space and admission to good public schools. At which point I would glaze over as if somebody had started reading to me from a software manual.
 Much as we enjoyed our urban lifestyle, however, circumstances forced us out of our happy nest. First my husband's lucrative IT career came to a screeching halt with the economic slump in the wake of 9/11. Then our landlord decided to raise our rent -- by $600. 
 Downwardly mobile and having used much of our savings to augment unemployment insurance, we made a decision that to us seemed logical: combine my husband's longing for a sailboat with our need for cheap, temporary housing. With the small fortune we'd save in rent every month, it wouldn't be long before we could buy a house back in our beloved Brooklyn.
 We bought a used, 37-foot boat in Massachusetts, sailed it south, and docked in the only marina slip that was available to us -- on the west side of the New York Harbor. 
 Still, it didn't occur to either of us that we had done anything more complicated than move from land to water. Our daughter would continue along in her Brooklyn school, my husband was back working in Manhattan, and I worked mostly from home. So when we finally got hungry and realized that the time had come to go out in search of food, we piled into the car. Which is precisely when it hit me: sight unseen and thoroughly without forethought, my family and I had moved ... egads ... to New Jersey.
 Did you know that it's legal to turn right on red New Jersey? I didn't, which is why I couldn't understand why my fellow drivers, particularly those at my rear, seemed so irate. But when we finally clued in and got with the program, we felt elated. All that time I had spent waiting for lights to change; I could have written a novel in that time.
 When I lived in New York, I frequently scoffed at the notion of supermarkets. To my mind, they epitomized suburban mediocrity. You know what? After only a few weeks in New Jersey I had embraced them. 
 True, ShopRite may not sell the finest prosciutto, the freshest wild salmon or the most premium Gruyere. But thanks to the proliferation of specialty foods and imports on the national market, foraging for luxurious edibles outside New York City has become entirely possible. And the parking rocks. In the civilized comfort of your heated or air-conditioned car, you can swing into a lot and coast into a space. Grab a cart, breeze into the store, and stroll through wide aisles that are longer than bowling lanes. Avoid shoulder strains and back spasms by pushing rather than humping your groceries back to a car that will get your ice cream home before it melts. 
 Throughout the first year of my accidental New Jersey residency, I discovered other things about the place that I genuinely liked. For instance, gasoline costs less than it does on the other side of the river, and you never have to pump it yourself. You're allowed to buy wine on Sunday. Sales tax is only 3 percent. And if you happen to live at the eastern-most edge of the state, as I do, you can enjoy magnificent views of Manhattan as opposed to less magnificent views of, say, New Jersey. I love the wider streets, the lighter traffic, and the easier access to open landscapes. I also love being close enough to New York City to use its countless resources, yet far enough away to realize that it is not -- as many New Yorkers would have you believe -- the center of the universe.
 Leaving New York has made me realize that, as a group, New Yorkers are obsessed with ''The Best.'' Ask just about anyone on the street and he or she will tell you in astonishing detail where to eat the best bagel, hear the best music, see the best theater, sunbathe in the best park. And in all likelihood, the advice will be dead-on. 
 But I've found that by letting go of ''The Best,'' I've opened up space in my head and my heart for attention to other things: the quality of the air, the smell of the grass, the symmetry of gulls flying overhead. These days there is nothing accidental about my New Jersey residency; I'm here to stay happily put.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); MARINE VESSELS (65%); MARINAS (65%); SAILING (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) 

PERSON: Jennie Green

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



606 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Is the Junk Bond Market Ready to Catch Its Breath?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
IT is time to take a break from the junk bond market, which is overheating as companies rush to lock in surprisingly low interest rates before the Federal Reserve pushes them any higher.
 Institutional and individual investors, through mutual funds, have been snapping up billions of dollars of new issues recently. But their big appetites are likely to result in bouts of indigestion in the months ahead.
 Since June, individual investors have poured $4.6 billion into junk bond mutual funds, also known as high-yield funds, after pulling out $10.8 billion from February through May, according to AMG Data Services. And institutional investors have been running even faster after the securities, analysts said. At the current pace, the junk bond market should set an annual record for new issuance, topping the $128.1 billion of last year. 
 But the prices that investors have paid are high and the yields they have been offered are relatively low, according to Kingman D. Penniman, president of KDP Investment Advisors, a high-yield bond research firm in Montpelier, Vt. 
 The new offering last Monday from Wynn Las Vegas, a resort and casino scheduled to open in the spring, offers an example of the deals that investors are accepting in the hothouse atmosphere of junk bonds, Mr. Penniman said.
 In an analysis the Thursday before the sale, KDP said it would be ''comfortable buying this issue'' if the yield was in the range of 7 to 8.5 percent. Mr. Penniman said he would put the credit rating on the Wynn Las Vegas bonds at B or B-, although Standard & Poor's rated them B+.
 By the time the deal was done, the $1.3 billion issue, up from a scheduled $1.1 billion, was priced to yield 6.625 percent, below the low end of KDP's comfort range. 
 ''That is an indication of how frothy the new-issue market is,'' Mr. Penniman said. ''Some time down the road people will be unhappy that they bought this,'' he said of the new Wynn Las Vegas bonds and other overpriced new issues with relatively low yields he has seen recently. But, he added, there is just too much money demanding junk bond returns.
 Froth in the new-issue market, however, does not mean that investors should abandon high-yield bonds. It means that investors just need to be cautious right now. Junk bonds are still likely to be a place to be next year for those who want to keep money in the bond market. When interest rates are rising, the higher yields provided by junk bonds can offset the concurrent decline in bond prices. Through Friday, the total 2004 return for the junk bond market was 9.4 percent, according to Merrill Lynch.
 And Mr. Penniman predicts that junk bonds will return a ''solid single digit'' next year. He is assuming that the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note will rise somewhere between 0.75 to 1.5 percentage points. That increase would reduce bond prices. But with an average yield of about 8 percent on junk bonds, the total return could still be around 5 percent. 
 The current exuberance of the new-issue market, however, suggests that the junk bond sector may be in for a correction in the next several months. Another disturbing signal is that the spread, or difference, between the average yield on KDP's junk bond index and the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note is now at its narrowest point since the KDP index began in 1990. 
 This spread, which had been shrinking all month, slipped to 2.20 percentage points on Friday. Before this month, the weekly low was 2.49 points, in the week ended Jan. 23 this year.
 The high-yield market began a selloff at that point, resulting in a loss of 2.8 percent by the end of May. Most of that loss came in May, as interest rates soared after the surprisingly strong employment reports for March and April. So an especially tight spread can be a warning sign, and right now that means investors who have not been chasing junk bonds should stay on the sidelines, while those who have been in the market should pause. ''You should be sitting on your hands,'' he said.
 CONSIDER two big junk bond rallies that produced years of double-digit returns -- the first from 1990 through 1993, and the second from 1995 through 1997. In each run, historically low spreads in the third year seemed to signal (in hindsight, of course) that the end was near. Junk bonds lost 1 percent in the year after the first rally and eked out a return of just 2.6 percent in the entire five years after the second rally, according to Merrill Lynch. 
 As of Friday, junk bonds appeared to be on track to a double-digit return this year, meaning that 2005 could be the third year in a row for such gains.
 But, as Mr. Penniman said, ''I would not be chasing the market on the basis of a 10 percent return this year and expecting to get that next year.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Smaller Rewards''The difference, or spread, between the yield on junk bonds (based on the KDP Daily High Yield Index) and 10-year Treasuries. A small spread indicates that the premium for holding junk bonds is low.Graph tracks bond yield spread since 1990.(Source by KDP Investment Advisors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (94%); BONDS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (74%); CASINOS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AMG DATA SERVICES (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (55%) VERMONT, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



607 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Some Power Fees Could Rise Even More

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
ELECTRIC customers in southwestern Connecticut would pay 12 percent more for power than the rest of the state, which would boost rates by as much as $350 million a year under a federal plan that would split 54 towns off in a separate pricing zone. 
 The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission said this month that the proposal would stimulate improvements to the power grid in Fairfield and New Haven Counties, where there has been public opposition to high-voltage lines and new power plants, but state regulators and even Connecticut Light and Power oppose the federal plan as discriminatory and a windfall for power generators.
 ''It's just trying to make the system economically rational and provide the proper price signals to encourage the necessary investment,'' said Bryan S. Lee, a spokesman for the federal agency. ''We're worried southwestern Connecticut could turn into the next California, with reliability problems and repeated calls by the grid operator for cutbacks.''
 Several state agencies and the state attorney general's office have joined forces to appeal the plan, which is scheduled to take effect on Jan. 1, 2006, because they said that until Connecticut Light and Power improved the high-voltage distribution lines in that area of the state, which could take five more years, the area cannot support more generating plants. 
 ''If you don't have the transmission system to support new power generation, it is purely punitive,'' said Beryl M. Lyons, a spokeswoman for the state's Department of Public Utility Control. ''It's our contention that within each class of customer, such as residential, everyone should pay the same rate no matter where they live in the state. We shouldn't be discriminating based on where people live. The only thing that will ease the situation is to fix the transmission system, and that's in the works.''
 Joseph A. Rosenthal, a lawyer with the state's Office of Consumer Counsel, also questioned whether the two-zone pricing would even work because as more generating capacity is built, the prices would come down.
 ''Nobody's going to put iron in the ground, make a 20-year investment, if they don't know whether those rates will hold up over the long term,'' Mr. Rosenthal said. If too many power plants are built, he said, ''their revenue stream may drop too much to justify their investment. You can't get financing for a plant on that basis.''
 Business organizations also oppose the plan, which they said would make it more difficult to justify staying in the region and discourage new businesses from locating in southwestern Connecticut.
 ''This is going to drain hundreds of millions of dollars a year out of the economy and turn it over to older, inefficient, polluting generating plants,'' said Joseph McGee, vice president of Sacia, the Business Council of Fairfield County. ''In terms of economic competitiveness, you can't have a 12 percent surcharge on electric bills.''
 Chris Riley, a spokesman for Connecticut Light & Power, said the charges in Southwestern Connecticut would be in addition to the 17 percent rate increase the company requested from state regulators. That increase, announced on Tuesday, is driven by rising fuel costs that have pushed up the price Connecticut Light & Power pays its suppliers, which accounts for 11 percent, but also a 1 percent increase in distribution rates that had been previously approved. The remaining 5 percent stems from a federally mandated congestion charge required because of the power problems in southwestern Connecticut, which the company must levy against the entire state because there is no two-zone pricing in place now.
 For several years, utility companies have warned about brownouts in southwestern Connecticut, which makes up about one-quarter of the state, but accounts for more than 50 percent of the power used in the state, most of it imported from other areas. 
 Ellen M. Foley, a spokeswoman for ISO New England, an industry group that oversees the power supply in the six New England states, said that since 1999 New England has added 9,300 megawatts of electrical generating capacity in 20 new plants, none of them in southwestern Connecticut, where it is desperately needed. 
 Ms. Foley said the region not only has a shortage of power plants, but also one of the most decrepit power distribution systems in Connecticut, and proposals to put new high-voltage lines through many of the towns has met with stiff resistance.
 When ISO New England submitted a plan for pricing zones in New England to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission last spring, it recommended four zones: one for Connecticut; one for most of Massachusetts; one for the greater Boston area, which also faces power shortages, and one for the other four states. But regulators told ISO New England to come up with a plan that would stimulate more plant investment in southwestern Connecticut.
 ''Our data confirmed that a second capacity zone would be warranted in southwestern Connecticut, and we filed a new plan with F.E.R.C. July 31,'' Ms. Foley said. Southwestern Connecticut would see a 6.34 percent increase in its base rates, a total of more than $100 million a year, while the rest of the state would see a 0.64 percent decrease.
 But that would not be the only impact. Under the plan, older plants would also receive a additional money, at an estimated cost of $240 million a year, which would boost the rates as much as 12 percent, Connecticut officials said.
 ''We need them to be there for the reliability of the system,'' Ms. Foley said. ''Some of them have applied to shut down, or filed for bankruptcy, but we can't afford to lose them.''
 Lisa A. Bader, a spokeswoman for NRG Energy, which operates four older plants at its Devon complex in Milford, said the company has sought to close them because it is losing money to run the plants.
 ''We welcome this change to the market,'' Ms. Bader said. ''The market right now does not support the cost of older plants.''
 Since the 1970's, Connecticut Light and Power, which supplies most of the 54 towns that would be affected by the order, has proposed building 345-kilovolt high-voltage lines to replace two existing 115-kilowatt systems, one between Bethel and Norwalk, the other between Middletown and Norwalk, said Mitch Gross, a utility spokesman. Residents have opposed them, claiming that they would create dangerous electromagnetic fields and also ruin the aesthetics of the areas and harm property values. Still, the company expected to finish the lines by 2009.
 ''This would basically get southwestern Connecticut up to where the rest of the state, and the rest of New England, already is,'' Mr. Gross said. ''We have been trying to move them forward as quickly as possible.''
 Erin H. O'Brien, another spokeswoman for ISO New England, said people who believed the two-zone plan is unjustified do not understand that the plan is also intended to spur improvements to the grid.
 ''This sends a signal to the market to get things moving forward on the transmission infrastructure as well,'' Ms. O'Brien said. ''And until those transmission lines are finished, there are steps that could be taken to improve the reliability within Connecticut.'' For instance, she said, a network of small generating plants distributed throughout the region would be able to supply power locally without straining the aging grid.
 ''This is not about punishing anyone,'' said Mr. Lee, the F.E.R.C. spokesman. ''This is about providing rational economic signals that will stimulate the development of an energy infrastructure that southwestern Connecticut desperately needs.''
 Mr. McGee of Sacia said many people don't realize how important the issue was.
 ''This is turning into a groundbreaking case for the entire country, not only in terms of pricing, but in terms of who has the authority to make energy policy for the states,'' he said. ''If we pay this 7 to 12 percent more, what do we get for it? Nothing. We're just dumping the money on the owners of these old, inefficient plants.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The NRG Energy power plant complex in Milford. The company said it is losing money on the plants. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%) Electric Light and Power; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT LIGHT & POWER CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%) Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; Connecticut Light and Power Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (57%)

PERSON: Robert A Hamilton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Connecticut; Fairfield County (Conn); New Haven County (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



608 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE THOROUGHLY DESIGNED AMERICAN CHILDHOOD; Pg. 94

LENGTH: 4458 words

HEADLINE: A Robot For the Masses

BYLINE: By Francisco Goldman. 
Francisco Goldman is the author, most recently, of the novel ''The Divine Husband.''

 BODY:
The American International Toy Fair, first held in New York City in 1903, has met there every year since except one (1945). It's the global toy industry's most important showcase, now filling, every February, two major venues -- the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and, at 200 Fifth Avenue, the International Toy Center. But it was not until my second day of wandering the fair last winter that I finally saw the toy I knew I wanted.
 The fair was about to close. I was hurrying from floor to floor in the Toy Center, trying to see as much as I could, when I turned a corridor, and there it was, displayed in a showroom window: a robot. It was a dynamic-looking machine, with broad chest and shoulders, narrow waist, chunky legs, long arms and highly functional-looking tri-pronged claws. Probably Japanese, I thought. It was a toy robot, but one that looked as if it could do real robotic things -- walk, move its arms and use those claws. With those electronic eyes, it might even be able to ''see.'' The toy was called Robosapien, and the company that made it, Wow Wee, was not Japanese after all. Newly published clippings, taped to the glass, described Robosapien as the high-tech hit of the fair. 
 In the showroom, a few people from Wow Wee were talking to an enormous man with a build not unlike that of the robot. He stood ramrod straight and had a round, friendly face and a trim beard; the felt hat and the safari shirt he wore gave him an Indiana Jones aspect. Mark Tilden, a robotic physicist formerly of Los Alamos National Laboratory and NASA, invented Robosapien, or at least the prototype, in an intense three-week effort in 2001. Tilden, who is in his 40's, described it as ''the first real mass-marketed humanoid robot.'' I was told that it would be commercially available the summer of 2004 for $99. By comparison, Robosapien's best-known competitor in the field, the Japanese Sony AIBO robot dog, costs $1,900; Sony has also developed a 23-inch state-of-the-art humanoid entertainment robot, called QRIO, but should it ever be put on the market, it will probably cost as much as a luxury car. 
 In his booming, grandiloquent voice, Tilden began a highly scientific-sounding explanation of why Robosapien's price was so low -- something to do with his pioneering work in analog robotics, which uses simple electronics parts and imitates the natural physics of nature rather than computer-driven digital mechanics. Remote controller in hand, the roboticist sent the little humanoid walking across the floor, torso lurching from side to side -- Robosapien walks something like an infant Popeye. Rather than speaking words, the robot emits sounds: it growled like a samurai, belched and wolf-whistled while waving a claw as if at some passing beauty. Supplying its own perky techno-music score, the robot even danced, rocking its hips and hoisting its long arms in the air in time to the beat. 
 Then Tilden said something that I understood: ''You can make him pick your dirty socks off the floor and carry them to your closet.'' You could also program Robosapien to guard a closet or to keep your cat off your desk. Everyone, children and adults, has dreamed of having a robot that could perform tedious chores and serve as a ''companion'' as well. It was easy to imagine a child being enlivened by a robot that he can make walk around and do things, but Tilden also suggested that the toy could engage tech-savvy adults in new ways as well, in ways that their PlayStations perhaps no longer can. (Tilden later told me that he was especially tickled by ''a guy in Florida'' who bought 20 Robosapiens and programmed them to salute his Darth Vader doll.) At a university in Hong Kong, he said, a group of female students were rehearsing ''Romeo and Juliet'' with a troupe of 16 Robosapiens sent by Wow Wee. It occurred to me to ask about how dialogue would be programmed into an individual robot only after Tilden had announced that he had to leave that instant or he would miss his red-eye to Hong Kong, where he and Wow Wee are based.
 ''Robots are the last unfulfilled promise of the 20th century,'' he said before dashing off. To someone who grew up watching ''The Jetsons,'' ''Lost in Space'' and ''Star Trek,'' that immediately rings true. Countless things that used to seem like science-fiction fantasies were realized during the last century, but robots, especially the helpful, companionable, humanoid ''I, Robot'' variety, are obviously among those that did not. If you were born 50 years ago, at some point in your life you have surely expected such robots to have become a reality by now. 
 The future arrived in the mail a few weeks later: my first Robosapien. ''It can pick up socks,'' I told Aura, my fiancee. We unpacked the toy, set it on the floor and inserted two D batteries in the bottom of each foot. Aura found and pressed the power-on button below the shoulder blades. Like the Terminator -- an ''artificial human'' ancestor from the fantasy world of special-effects movies -- Robosapien has red electronic eyes, but they glow benignly. When you pick it up, you feel as if you are holding a living plastic-armor-plated cat. I was impatient with the instructional manual, but as I held the remote, I resigned myself to having to rely on it. Aura, of a generation more at home with gadgetry, blithely disregarded the manual and soon had our robot taking its first shuffling steps. It walked into a wall. An illuminated sensor embedded in its palm touched the wall first, and somehow that made the robot say, ''Ouch, ouch, ouch.'' Robosapien's wide, sturdy legs and tugboat-like feet kept moving, and slowly, his upper torso lurching pendulum-like from side to side, he turned one strenuous step at a time away from the wall and walked across the open floor. Of course, via the remote, you can make Robosapien turn before it hits a wall. It can perform karate chops. It can pick up a plastic cup and hurl it (not very far) into the air. Its demo button will make it perform all 67 of its functions. 
 The word ''robot,'' originally coined by Karel Capek in his futuristic play ''R.U.R.,'' comes from the Czech word for forced labor. A robot must be able to perform tasks -- and Robosapien can, depending on your skill. You can make it pick up your socks, but for the ordinary user, it can take a long time. A plastic cup is far easier. 
 Theo and Jacob Landsman, the 10- and 8-year-old sons of friends, have named their Robosapien Bleepy and are currently rehearsing it for a surprise Thanksgiving-dinner performance certain to astound all present except their wised-up parents. When we spoke, Jacob had just made his Robosapien karate chop his older brother in the head ''to see if it would hurt.'' (Not much.) Of Robosapien's three modes, red, orange and green (identified by buttons on the remote), Jacob's favorite is orange, because it is the best ''if you want comedy,'' he said. ''I happen to like the dancing most. When I showed it to my baby sitter, she laughed so hard.'' Theo knows how to program Robosapien so that it will run through 14 functions in a preselected order -- for example, dancing, followed by karate chops, followed by high-fives and finally a burp. For the Thanksgiving surprise, Bleepy will lurk, seemingly asleep, in a corner throughout the meal, then suddenly stride forward, toward the dinner table, making all its noises. Theo, via the remote, will then send him into the ''all demo'' mode. 
There are philosophers of the future and experts on the subjects of robotics and artificial intelligence who are certain that on some far-off day the most pressing moral issue humans will face will be how to distinguish ourselves from lifelike machines. Maybe we will even have joined them, evolving into cyborgs, hybrid human-machines. Such speculations far outpace the current stage of robotics. The field, for all its advances, is still in its infancy. Some scientists have predicted that the real advances in robotics will not occur in university or government labs but in entertainment robots like Robosapien, conceived to appeal to consumers. In a remarkable scholarly book, ''The Secret Life of Puppets,'' Victoria Nelson argues that our sense of the supernatural and yearning for immortality has been displaced from religion to such expressions of popular culture as superheroes, robots and cyborgs. We want robots that will perform chores for us, but want them for deeper, more mysterious reasons, too. There was something stirring about watching Robosapien in its arduous struggle against the wall: its turning itself around had even seemed like an act of learning and decision, the consequence of a hard-earned deduction. Anyone watching might have had the uncanny sensation of witnessing the first primal steps of the new robot ''species.'' 
 In the world's most renowned robot-development labs -- those of Honda and Sony and the Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at M.I.T. -- much of the work centers on the robot's ''brain'': the multimillion-dollar supercomputers programmed to drive and coordinate the robot's sensors, functions and movements. The discipline is full of stories of fabulously engineered, computer-driven robots that perform impressively in the lab but crash in the field. Tilden, who invented BEAM robotics, earned a maverick reputation by taking another approach. BEAM, an acronym for ''biology, electronics, aesthetics and mechanics,'' replaces digital processing with analog circuits. Tilden employed minimalist electronics -- even spare Walkman parts, pieces of old Atari processors -- to construct ''mechanical life forms'' that interact with their environments. Rather than the ones and zeroes of digital processing, analog circuits produce continuous waves, allowing mechanisms to mimic the pendulum dynamic of animal movement. Robosapien gets up to 20 hours of continuous battery life because of Tilden's energy-efficient analog mechanics. In 2000, at the Bradbury Science Museum in Los Alamos, where some of his robots were exhibited, Tilden told an interviewer: ''We started out years ago on the assumption that rather than try to evolve a robot from some sort of intelligence, which has always seemed to have failed, we would evolve robots by themselves, starting out with the very simplest of devices and then working our way up, to see if we could eventually try and build humanoid-like devices that would interact with us on our own particular level,'' all the while keeping the technology simple. 
 ''This is the end point of a really long lifetime compulsion,'' Tilden told me this summer. We were in his cramped walk-in-closet-size office in Wow Wee's Hong Kong headquarters, filled with prototypes and samples of his toys in various stages of their development and all manner of electronics parts. In his stentorian, straight-faced manner, Tilden said: ''I could have been a decent husband and father, but instead here I am giving birth to robots that are basically an extension of my own personality. Here I am on the front line of the robot wars, building the largest private robot army for market domination. I am a NASA scientist! I am a James Bond villain, right?'' He let loose a deep, rumbling Falstaffian laugh. 
 It was June, and Tilden was just back from Robosapien's official launch in Great Britain. Since I had last seen him in New York, Robosapien had made two dozen ''best of'' toy lists, including Parenting magazine's. Wow Wee's factory in Shenzhen was turning out more than 5,000 Robosapiens a day in the long run-up to the Christmas season. One and a half million Robosapiens have been sold worldwide -- against original estimates of 50,000 in the first year. (The robot is sold in the United States in the usual toy venues, as well as in stores like Best Buy and the Sharper Image.) 
 During the 1980's, as a student of physics and engineering at the University of Waterloo in Canada, Tilden discovered his calling. He became an obsessive robot builder but also discovered the limitations of the sci-fi dream. It was impossible, for example, to teach his robot vacuum cleaner not to vacuum up entire rolls of toilet paper or the cat kibble out of the pet's dish. The absurdity of building a half-million-dollar robot to ''clean your toilet'' to this day remains one of his vehement criticisms of much of contemporary robotics. Tilden's robot science became a search for radical simplicity. He invented BEAM robotics in 1988. He was eventually recruited to join the physics department at Los Alamos National Laboratory -- ''an E ticket to Disneyland for scientists,'' as he put it. Inevitably, though, Tilden's analog convictions clashed with the prevailing digital certainties of his contemporaries. From Los Alamos, he also worked with numerous other government agencies, like NASA. An invitation to work with the Santa Fe Institute and its artificial-intelligence lab should have been a roboticist's dream opportunity, but instead it encapsulated his frustrations. Santa Fe's scientists ''brought me down and showed me their big secrets, which were like computer models of little things moving around, doing little things, and they said, 'Build robots that do this,''' he recounted. ''And I had to turn to them and say, like Scotty from 'Star Trek': 'I'm sorry, Captain. I can't change the laws of physics. What you have here is a complete computer fantasy: robots that already travel in straight lines, perfect energy sources, nonelastic solids, robots that can pull and push a thread.' It was all virtual. In Super Mario, the physics are adjusted to the reality of the game, rather than actual reality. I could not build robots that matched their computer fantasies.'' 
 Wow Wee's founder and president, Peter Yanofsky, saw Tilden on the Discovery Channel in a program called ''Robots Rising'' in 1998. Tilden and his BEAM robotics, his insectlike machines and the multiple creations of his robot ''Jurassic Park'' were featured. Yanofsky turned to his wife and said, ''I can make money with Tilden.'' Soon after, Yanofsky contacted him. Tilden began consulting part time for Wow Wee while he worked at Los Alamos. But in 2001, after leaving Los Alamos to become a full-time consultant, he worked nonstop for 21 days building the first Robosapien prototype.
 In 1998, Yanofsky sold Wow Wee, which was then doing $60 million in sales annually, to Hasbro. That $3 billion company was attracted to Wow Wee because of its successful Animaltronics and Dinotronics toys -- for example, its vividly animated T. rex dinosaur. Yanofsky stayed on with the company, believing that under the toy giant's umbrella, Wow Wee would have even more latitude to engage in developing cutting-edge toys. But the move proved to be a mistake. Hasbro canceled Robosapien several times, and Wow Wee shrank to a $15 million company. Refusing to let Robosapien die, Yanofsky amicably negotiated out of Wow Wee's contract with Hasbro last year. 
 ''They didn't believe in what we were doing,'' Yanofsky told me. ''They didn't think there was a need. Their top brass asked, 'Where's the play value?''' The need that Yanofsky perceived was that the world was now full of PlayStation-savvy older children and young adults and that no one was catering to their sense of play offline. ''What about the guy who says, 'I want a robot!''' Yanofsky said. ''The virtual world dominates the toy industry. You play with a cartoon on a screen. For years, the software business has been getting all the young creative guys, but now we have scientists and geeks who want to come in on our development thing. We want people who are creative and eclectic and can take this industry to where the software industry is.'' 
 After Tilden finished his first Robosapien, during a summer spent in Telluride, Colo., he sent it to Hong Kong and moved there not long after. That prototype, just over a foot high, sits on a crowded shelf in his office. With its spare metal construction, it looks something like a space-age Giacometti sculpture. Its limbs are driven by a controller comprising 24 transistors, enough to make a decent radio. He gave it specially designed hands and a vision mechanism and eight motors ''perfectly synchronized, without any digital programming at all.'' 
 From then to 2004, a handful of ''robot-animation guys'' worked with Tilden on a sequence of Robosapien prototypes. Some of the key members of the Robosapien team were young American and European engineers and software specialists working in Wow Wee's office. Others were local people, typically graduates of Hong Kong universities and technical institutes that offer programs like a three-year diploma in creative-toy and intelligent-product technology. Others were from mainland China, employed by the vendors' factories in Shenzhen, where Robosapien is assembled and where much of the most crucial engineering and premanufacturing work on the toy was done. (Vendors compete for the contracts to manufacture products at their plants in China and then also provide the labor.) 
 Wow Wee's most difficult problem was how to get the vendors to understand the technology behind Tilden's prototypes. At first, Wow Wee's best engineers didn't grasp it, either. For six months, Tilden gave once-a-week courses in his analog, nonlinear-control technology in Wow Wee's office, for its own and the vendors' engineers until, Yanofsky recalled, ''they started to get a foothold about what this mad scientist was talking about.'' Robosapien's success would depend on Tilden's being able to win over the people who had to be involved in the development of his toy. The vendor's job is to translate a prototype's functions into something that can be manufactured beneath a certain price point -- in a business in which the cost of manufacturing is a product's biggest expense. The challenge would be to sell Robosapien at a price acceptable to consumers of toys rather than of high-tech electronics products. 
 Wow Wee finally found a vendor factory that understood the engineering well enough, but then that vendor went bankrupt. ''We were out driving around,'' Tilden recalled, ''trying to rescue our robots from Dumpsters so our rivals wouldn't get them.'' Soon after, the Wah Shing plant in Shenzhen became Robosapien's main manufacturer. 
 ''Robosapien is like a walking lobster -- the shell holds him up,'' Tilden explained. ''On the assembly line, you build him back to front. He has a hexagonal frame and a navel, and everything -- his toes, his fingers -- is the same distance from that navel. If you see a robot that looks like it was built on draft paper, that is a conventional digitally-based robot. My controllers are based on triangles. In biology, if you take a cell, which is basically a round thing, and stuff a lot of them together, they'll form triangles, triangles, triangles forever.'' But a key compromise had to be made. The realities of manufacturing were such that Tilden and the engineers from Wow Wee and Wah Shing had to find a way to approximate Robosapien's analog controllers digitally. In the summer of 2003, Tilden spent eight straight days at the Wah Shing plant with Edward Chan, a Wah Shing electrical engineer, and a small team of other engineers. Tilden literally acted out and performed the robot's functions, even the Robosapien dance, and Chan, at the computer, turned them into code. 
 In June, I went with Tilden, Phillip Duffy, Wow Wee's head of research and development, and others from the company to the Wah Shing plant. We took the train into Shenzhen's free zone, a capitalist development zone in mainland China, and were met by a driver and van. Then we drove deeper into a landscape of explosive growth, where the bleakly massive constructions of standard Communism serve the demands of a booming capitalist manufacturing economy. Each factory is an individual little fortress-hamlet, each with its own resident workforce and security gates out front. The Wah Shing plant employs a workforce of 2,000, many of them young female assembly-line workers. In the rooms housing the machinery amid which they work, usually in pairs, there are wooden shelves along the walls holding tea cups, one cup to each girl, in a variety of styles, imprinted with their names, a touching assertion of individual identity given the inevitable uniformity of their occupations. 
 A simple gray rug marked the spot in an isolated corridor where Tilden, Chan, Ariff Cheng, Dickson Fong and the others had their collaborative breakthrough. Fong, a Wow Wee quality-control engineer, recounted the drama of that crucial week in animated if rudimentary English: ''See the clock! Job not done! We need to stay here, work with the electrical engineer. The clothes no change, the underwear no change.'' He made a noise like pugh! 
 While Tilden demonstrated the robot's motions, and Chan wrote the code, Cheng and Fong solved other problems, like the robot's crooked walk. They traced the problem to the hardness of the plastic in Robosapien's feet. There are five little buttons, or toes, on the bottom of each foot, and the problem was corrected by making three of those toes of hard plastic and two of a softer one. Just off that corridor in Wah Shing was the room where two young women, named Zhang and Ha, have one of the most important jobs in the plant. Former ''stars'' of the assembly line, they decided how the robot would be put together, step by step, by the assembly-line workers. The two women had built, by hand, the robots I saw at the toy fair in New York five months before -- ''a smoke-and-mirrors act,'' Tilden cracked, for at that point, the robots were not ready to go into mass production. 
 More so than will be the case in future Wow Wee humanoids, Tilden made many of the final decisions about the toy's development. He decided on its appearance and character. Should the robot be like a Japanese TV robot? RoboCopish? ''Star Wars''-like? Tilden wanted it to be a robot that looked like a robot and was ''pure bot,'' without any merely decorative features. Tilden insisted that the robot not speak English, or any other language. Instead, he told me, ''I put my own body gestures and even sounds in there.'' When the machine grunts, it is Tilden's recorded grunt you hear, his ''ouch,'' wolf-whistle and belch. If the original prototype had 24 transistors, Robosapien has millions in one small, intricately patterned board controlling all seven motors and one tiny chip holding 12 kilobytes of programming. Tilden recalled: ''We took analog, converted it into digital, through my skills and the skills of many designers, and came up with a seven-motor design that basically beats any of its rivals by up to five times in price.'' 
On the day of Robosapien's official Hong Kong debut in June, Wow Wee's office was full of local reporters. A dozen robots, connected by their small infrared control signals, did the Robosapien dance together -- an arresting sight. Tilden regaled the media with his sometimes extravagant claims of his robot's abilities. The ordinary user who can't make his Robosapien do much more than pick up a plastic cup may eventually lose interest in the toy. Some users have posted such complaints on amazon.com. But Robosapien possesses what toy engineers like to call ''play depth.'' Presumably anyone, whether child or adult, should be able to master the manual's level of play. But you can also go deeper and explore the remote on your own. Robosapien has 28 hidden functions that do not appear in the manual. For example, you can shut the robot down, and ''when he dies,'' as Tilden put it, ''the last word he says, and it's the only English word he has right now, is ''Rosebud'' -- which is from Orson Welles's 'Citizen Kane.' If you remember, you wait the entire movie, and you find out Rosebud was the name of his favorite toy. So just imagine the poetic symmetry. Just before Robosapien dies, he has a dream of another toy.'' 
 Beyond the possibilities of the remote and the hidden functions, there is yet another level of play. ''This baby is designed to be hacked,'' Tilden said. For many, that's where the real fun will begin. People have posted video clips on the Web of Robosapiens playing one-on-one basketball (very crudely) and a strangely suspenseful video of a Robosapien slowly pulling a door open with a length of rope and exiting through it. Servo Magazine sponsored a Hack-a-Robosapien contest. Indeed, for some sophisticated hackers, Robosapien's limits are even an invitation. 
 In an e-mail message from his Web site, aibohack.com, a hacker who goes by the name RoboSapienPet expressed the hope that people who grow bored of Robosapien's built-in features will be inspired to experiment. On his Web site, RoboSapienPet explained to me in an e-mail message, ''I do a number of robot and computer 'hacks' and share information, advice and free software to people who have similar robots or consumer electronics devices.'' He considers Robosapien more ''remote-control toy'' than robot but wrote that ''it is a reasonable toy to take apart and modify ('hack'). Simple modifications are possible, as well as brain transplants and brain augmentation. However it is not designed to be overly extensible for robot experimenters . . . at least not enough to my liking.'' Robosapien's low-cost production is what limits these possibilities, in comparison, for example, with the far more expensive AIBO robot dog. RoboSapienPet's modifications for Robosapien are posted at www.aibohack.com/robosap. They include ''adding a second microprocessor to take control of the robot,'' providing ''higher brain functions,'' including ''a PC interface and many other things.'' Another modification includes affixing a low-power sensor for mobile robots to give Robosapien ''self-contained vision and the ability to react differently based on the objects it sees (especially the color).'' 
 Some of those functions, especially involving vision mechanisms, sounded like what I had heard Yanofsky and Tilden discuss in regards to Wow Wee's future humanoids. In August, I received an e-mail message from Chan, who reported that he and Tilden had just spent another two intense weeks holed up at Wah Shing. Will their next generation come closer to blurring the line between ''really cool toy'' and true interactive robot home companion? If so, that portal to the ''Jetsons''-like future will have been more Toyland than NASA. 
 The morning after the launch, looking over the news accounts of the event, Yanofsky shook his head, smiled wryly and said: ''Why can't Mark stick to the script? They ask him why he left the science world to work in toys, and instead of a serious answer, he says, 'Because there are no children to make toys for on Mars.''' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mini-Me: Standing 14 inches tall, Robosapien is a little bit human and a whole lot analog. While it has its creator's ''physique'' and sounds like him, millions of transistors control its seven motors and a chip with 12 kilobytes of programming.
Pure Bot: Stages in the design process to create a robot without any purely decorative features, from an early schematic in 2002 (top) to a near-final stage of design development in 2003 (bottom).
 Walk Man: Wide, sturdy legs and tugboat-like feet may give Robosapien the gait of a baby Popeye, but the robot can dance. To program those moves as well as all the other functions, Mark Tilden acted them out, and an electrical engineer turned them into code. (Photographs by Tom Schierlitz for The New York Times)Drawings (Drawings from Wow Wee & Knickerbocker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES (90%); ROBOTICS (89%); PHYSICS (86%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Toys; Robots

ORGANIZATION: Wowwee (Toy Co)

PERSON: Francisco Goldman; Mark Tilden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



609 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Politics Out of the Fed

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
''THE Fed's decision today was widely anticipated, and I hope the economic effects of the tightening of monetary policy are fully examined before moving much further in this direction.''
 That statement, made after the Federal Reserve's decision to raise short-term interest rates on Nov. 10, would not seem unusual coming from a Wall Street economist or a chief executive. It came, however, from Representative Jim Saxton, the vice chairman of the Congressional Joint Economic Committee and thus the top member of the House involved with economic affairs.
 It was not the first time that Mr. Saxton, a New Jersey Republican, gave the Fed a piece of his mind. On Sept. 21, he had this to say after the Fed raised the target for the federal funds rate to 1.75 percent: ''Leading market price indicators of inflation are well under control, and so long as this is the case there is no pressing need for further Fed action in the near future.'' 
 The congressman, of course, is entitled to his opinions. Yet to some economists, he was crossing a bright and cherished line that separates monetary policy from the politicians who control fiscal policy.
 The independence of the central bank has become a sort of Good Housekeeping seal of approval for monetary policy. It means, for example, that politicians cannot force poor decisions about interest rates or the money supply just to give themselves a boost before an election. Back in September, Mr. Saxton was indeed urging a monetary policy that was looser than the one the Fed adopted when its policy committee met after the election.
 Economic research has shown a connection between independence and low inflation in industrialized countries, and between low inflation and less frequent changes at the helms of central banks in developing countries. For example, when Turkey's central bank gained independence three years ago, it was the first step to controlling rampaging prices, which had been rising by more than 50 percent annually. ''There's a consistent message in our policy advice that independent central banks are essential to effective monetary policy,'' said William Murray, a spokesman for the International Monetary Fund.
 The chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, has not made any remarks to mirror the vice chairman's. Nor has the Bush administration. In fact, the last few Treasury secretaries have made a point of emphasizing their recognition of the Fed's independence. Secretaries Robert E. Rubin, Lawrence H. Summers and Paul H. O'Neill often released statements after Fed actions that were quite different from Mr. Saxton's. The last one issued by Mr. O'Neill when he was secretary, on Dec. 11, 2001, was typical of his and those of his predecessors:
 ''The administration respects the independence of the Federal Reserve in making decisions about our nation's monetary policy. We share the Federal Reserve's goals of maintaining healthy economic growth while preserving low inflation.''
 The practice of releasing these statements ended when John W. Snow became Treasury secretary in 2002, but a Treasury spokeswoman, Brookly McLaughlin, reiterated the department's view. ''When the secretary is asked about this, the answer is, and always has been, that Treasury respects the independence of the Federal Reserve in setting monetary policy,'' she said. ''It's nonsense to read anything more into this.''
 When asked how the Treasury viewed Mr. Saxton's statements, Ms. McLaughlin repeated, ''We respect the independence of the Fed in setting monetary policy.''
 Mr. Saxton declined to be interviewed for this column, but he did release a statement by e-mail through his press secretary, Stephen Thompson. ''Although Saxton does not think that Congressional micromanagement of Fed decisions is desirable, he does think that the Congress has a responsibility for oversight given its delegation of monetary powers to the Fed,'' Mr. Thompson wrote. ''Over the years, many members of Congress have commented on Fed policy, just as Fed officials have commented on fiscal policy, tax policy and similar matters outside the realm of monetary policy.'' 
 Turnabout is fair play, and the congressman brings up an interesting point. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Fed, has regularly offered fiscal policy advice to Congress at his twice-a-year testimonies. In 2001, he gave an implicit O.K. to the Bush administration's first big tax cut, though lately he has been calling for reduction of the federal deficit and changes in Social Security. Members of both houses, hanging on his every word, often ask him leading questions in hopes of gaining endorsements for their pet policies.
 ACCORDING to Mark Gertler, chairman of the economics department at New York University, it would be better if the authorities controlling the two branches of economic policy left each other alone.
 ''Members of Congress should stay out of the business of the Federal Reserve,'' Professor Gertler said. ''And the central bank shouldn't get involved in discussions of fiscal policy, except when fiscal policy might threaten the performance of monetary policy. In other words, I don't think the central bank chairman should get in the business of signing off on tax cuts.''
 Though Congress does hold ultimate control over the Fed, as Mr. Saxton indicated, it could probably make do without Mr. Greenspan's advice. It already has its own economic advisory service: the Congressional Budget Office.
 The budget office publishes an economic outlook at least twice a year, and its director, Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, testifies frequently before Congress. His voice might not resound across the world's markets with the same power as Mr. Greenspan's, but at least evaluating fiscal policy is in his job description.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Jim Saxton of New Jersey issued a statement critiquing a recent Fed decision. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (56%) United States Economy; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: JIM SAXTON (90%); ROBERT BENNETT (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%) Daniel Altman; Jim (Rep) Saxton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



610 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation: Undone by Market Risk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: A Premature Sunset for Pension Plans?

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
AMERICA seems to be giving up on the traditional pension.
 Scores of pension plans have been cut back, converted or closed in the last few years, and there has been a run of spectacular failures in the airline and steel industries. Last week, the Postal Service said that the price of a first-class stamp may have to rise to 41 cents just to cover the cost of financing its pension plans. 
 Traditional pension plans are said to be an unaffordable burden on companies and taxpayers, a regulatory Rubik's cube, a relic that doesn't work in a global economy. Instead of counting on a pension, millions of employees are urged to build up their own savings, and bear their own investment risk, in 401(k)'s and similar plans. 
 The Bush administration and some members of Congress want to apply this thinking to Social Security as well, by redirecting a portion of the payroll tax into personal savings accounts. 
 Is the country throwing in the towel too soon on the traditional pension? For all the problems, its defenders say, it is still possible to keep a pension plan, large or small, on a sound financial footing and pay the promised benefits on schedule without overwhelming the sponsor. 
 Consider the contrast between two pension funds for government workers in Texas. One, covering the state's teachers, is now about $8 billion short of what it owes current and future retirees, and is projected to be $13 billion short by next August. It is expected to seek a state bailout. 
 The other fund, for municipal workers, is based just three blocks away in Austin, but couldn't be more different. This fund can readily pay promised benefits to the retirees of some 800 participating cities and towns in Texas, and doesn't need any extra help from taxpayers. Gary W. Anderson, its executive director, says grateful retirees often call him to extend ''what we call 'attaboys' down here in Texas.'' 
 These two pension funds face the same challenges in the same financial environment. The crucial difference is in the way they manage their assets. 
 The teachers' plan uses the same approach most pension funds have adopted over the past quarter-century: investing in a combination of stocks and bonds, some of it actively managed by professional investment advisers. If the stocks and bonds do well, the fund can post strong returns and be able to afford to pay retired teachers their pensions even after deducting the substantial costs of managing the portfolio. 
 The strategy also runs the risk that the investments won't do well, and the last few years of bearish markets have been hard on the teachers' fund, erasing billions of dollars of value. At the same time, the fund's obligations to retirees have been rising, creating a calamitous mismatch between assets and liabilities. It's more or less the same story at nearly all pension funds. 
 At the Texas Municipal Retirement System, however, ''we just took a different approach,'' Mr. Anderson said. The fund tuned out the siren song of Wall Street long ago, and followed a much more conservative strategy. It forecasts how much it will have to pay retirees and when, and then buys and holds high-grade bonds that will pay those amounts on the same schedule. 
 It's a simple technique that won't post spectacular gains and doesn't even try to beat the S.&P. 500, but avoids the mismatch plaguing most pension funds these days. And it is cheap to execute: Mr. Anderson said the payroll for the small staff of civil servants who do most of the work is less than $400,000 a year, a small fraction of what outside money managers would charge to run a $10 billion portfolio. 
 ''I think we have a good story to tell,'' Mr. Anderson said. 
 But it isn't a story Wall Street or the pension industry particularly wants told. The success of Texas Municipal and a handful of similar funds tends to make everybody else look bad -- all the more so because many pension funds once followed the same strategy, but abandoned it years ago in favor of playing the market. 
 Proponents of stock-based pension investing argue that over the long term, stocks generally do better than bonds, with the good years outweighing the bad, and that the higher returns ultimately make a pension fund less expensive for its sponsor to run. Now is an especially bad time for a fund to switch to bonds, they say, because interest rates are so low. 
 Funds like the United Mine Workers of America 1950 Pension Plan, known as the '50 fund, see no reason to take chances on good and bad years. When a 1974 change in pension law prompted the coal industry to split off retired miners into their own fund, separate from the one for miners still at work, the new fund's trustees decided to fully finance the plan quickly and lock in the financing using a matched bond portfolio. 
 ''It's been that way ever since,'' said Morris Feibusch, a vice president of the Bituminous Coal Operators Association, the trade group for the employer sponsors of the fund. ''There were occasional suggestions that maybe we'd want to look at a little bit of equities, but we just never did. The union was not interested, and neither were we.''
 Why don't more pension funds follow the lead of the '50 fund or Texas Municipal? Largely because it seems to be in no one's financial interest (except the covered workers') to do so.
 The incentives in law, regulation and industry practice all work against conservative fund management. For one thing, an accounting rule gives sponsoring companies wide latitude to create paper profits for themselves, perfectly legally, if they keep lots of stocks and even riskier assets in their pension funds, but conservative bonds won't do the trick. State and local governments do not make profits, but they can use the same accounting tactic to help balance their budgets, on paper, by reducing the pension contributions that seem to be required.
 Many experts believe that the existence of the government-sponsored Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation encourages sponsors to run risks, knowing that a safety net backed by taxpayers is there to pick up the pieces if their bets are losers -- just as deposit insurance was said to have encouraged the risky lending that led to the savings-and-loan debacle of the 1980's. But so many pension funds have been failing lately that the guaranty corporation's finances are now under serious strain.
 Pension accounting is not the sexiest of subjects, so it is perhaps not too surprising that few shareholders or taxpayers have complained very loudly about these problems yet. Nor is it in the interests of money managers to raise the issue, because aggressive pension management yields big revenue for Wall Street and feeds demand for stocks. 
 The sour financial markets of the last four years, though, have begun to expose the threat of disaster beneath the surface. Now, talk of change is in the air. The Securities and Exchange Commission has begun to question some corporations' pension figures, and Congress is talking about updating rules on sponsor contributions. The chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board has challenged some pension accounting rules.
 Some pension specialists see little hope in tinkering with the system. They argue that without the incentives to manage pensions aggressively, employers and Wall Street would turn their backs on pensions entirely. 
 Meanwhile, some sponsors facing gaping deficits are scrapping them anyway. But funds that ignored those incentives all along -- like the '50 fund and Texas Municipal -- are doing just fine.


GRAPHIC: Photo: With many plans plagued by gaping deficits, workers are being told to depend on their own savings, not a pension, for retirement. (Photo by Ed Kashi/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); BONDS (88%); US 401K PLANS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); POSTAL RATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); POSTAL SERVICE (57%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Texas Municipal Retirement System; Stocks and Bonds; Pensions and Retirement Plans

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



611 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: The Rise of the Bottomless Hot Water Heaters

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
IN mid-lather, the shower's stream goes from hot to tepid to frigid. You endure an icy rinse, cursing through chattering teeth. It's a familiar aggravation, especially if you live in a household where more than one person needs to shower within a short period -- or where the dishwasher and the washing machine are often in use. 
 But running out of hot water is a rare occurrence in homes in Western Europe and Japan, where tankless water heaters are the norm. These systems not only provide an endless supply of hot water, but they are also more energy-efficient than the cylindrical tank-style water heaters common in the United States. 
 Now facing increased fuel prices, more Americans are choosing tankless units, despite higher upfront costs. ''The last time people in the U.S. seriously looked at this technology was during the last energy crunch'' in the 1970's, said Richard Trethewey, the heating and plumbing expert for ''This Old House,'' the PBS series. But tankless water heaters, also known as demand or instantaneous water heaters, didn't take hold then because they had relatively low flow rates. That means they could offer an inexhaustible supply of hot water, but only if the faucets were just half open. 
 ''People like to get their hot water full blast,'' Mr. Trethewey said. But because of improved technology, the flow rates of tankless heaters have improved greatly in the last 10 years. And they have become even more energy-efficient.
 ''Demand water heaters save energy because they heat water on the fly,'' said Craig Drumheller, senior energy engineer at the National Association of Home Builders Research Center in Upper Marlboro, Md. Tank water heaters cycle on and off all day, keeping 30 to 50 gallons of water at around 120 degrees, but tankless units heat only the water flowing through them when someone opens a spigot. Because of such intermittent activity and the absence of a tank to corrode, tankless units tend to last 20 to 25 years, versus 8 to 10 years for a tank heater, according to the Energy Department. 
 Tankless heaters, essentially a labyrinth of heating coils within a briefcase-sized chamber, ''are kind of like waterproof toasters,'' said Harvey Sachs, director of the buildings program at the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy in Washington, a nonprofit organization that conducts research for utility companies and federal and state environmental agencies.
 But because tankless heaters have sophisticated microprocessors for regulating temperature and flow, they are priced considerably higher than toasters -- or tank heaters. Depending on their capacity, whole-house units by makers like Bosch, Rinnai, Takagi and Seisco cost $350 to $2,500, or twice what comparable tank units cost. They are also more expensive to install in existing homes: gas units may require wider-than-usual vents, as well as larger gas pipes running to the meter, while electrical units may need an added circuit. Manufacturers of tank heaters say the steep start-up costs make it unlikely that tankless units will supplant their products. 
 Still, many people who have made the investment say it's worth it. Philip S. Diakun, a computer technician at Sun Microsystems in Phoenix, said the tankless heater he had installed two years ago has almost paid for itself by lowering his monthly gas bills 15 percent. He paid $650 for it, plus $350 for a plumber to install it in his 1,764-square-foot, two-bathroom house. The only retrofitting required was enlarging a vent. In addition to consuming less energy than his old tank unit, Mr. Diakun said, his tankless heater ''saves space because it's smaller and hangs on the wall.'' Best of all, he said, ''you never get in the position of having to wait after you wash dishes for the hot water tank to fill back up so you can take a shower.''
 Because Mr. Diakun's household consists of just him and his wife, Connie, he chose a tankless unit with a modest flow rate of two to four gallons a minute, depending on incoming water temperature. Since it rarely drops below freezing in Phoenix, the unit usually operates at the high end of the range, which is more than enough to run a shower and dishwasher simultaneously. ''If you live somewhere really cold or have a lot of kids and can't take consecutive showers, then you'd need more capacity,'' he said. 
 Helen Clark, a homemaker in Houston, recently got a gas-powered tankless heater that provides six to nine gallons a minute for her family of six. A native of Scotland, she grew up with tankless units. ''I have little patience for running out of hot water,'' she said. In remodeling her 2,500-square-foot, 2 1/2-bathroom house, she jumped at the chance to get rid of her old tank heater. 
 The new unit cost $2,000 and the installation an additional $3,000 because she had pipes rerouted to put the unit in her attic, closer to the bathrooms. ''It was worth every penny,'' Ms. Clark said. ''We used to run out of hot water all the time, and now we never do; even if I'm doing the wash and more than one person is taking a shower.''
 TO figure the heater capacity your home needs, add the flow rates of all faucets and appliances that draw hot water during peak times like the morning, when you're washing the breakfast dishes and everyone else wants to take a shower. 
 Colin Bull, a plumber who installed tankless water heaters in his native England and now installs them in Houston, advises consumers to look for units with a ''temperature rise'' that can heat incoming water on the year's coldest day to at least 105 degrees -- a comfortable shower temperature -- without cutting the flow rate to an unacceptable level. If the incoming water temperature dips to 35, a temperature rise of 70 would be needed at the desired flow rate.
 James Pinkerton of Wapello, Ill., says that because his water comes from a well, his electric tankless heater performs the same even when the outside temperature is below zero. ''It comes in at the same temperature year round,'' he said. An operations manager at a nuclear power plant, he paid $400 for his unit, which provides two to two and a half gallons a minute. He installed it himself two years ago in the shop behind his house where he restores vintage trucks. ''I use a lot of hot water to wash parts, and hot water is better for washing down the trucks,'' he said. He also showers in the shop's bathroom if his two teenage daughters have used all the hot water in his home. 
 ''As soon as the tank heater in the house goes, I'm putting in a tankless,'' he said.

QUICK READ
Tankless hot-water heaters are gaining popularity in the United States. Here are pros and cons to consider.

PROS

Provide a constant supply of hot water, up to a certain flow rate.

Save energy and lower fuel bills.

Decrease the risk of fire because they operate only when someone is in the house drawing hot water.

Eliminate the risk of bacterial growth because there is no standing water in the heater.

Last 20 to 25 years, versus 8 to 10 for tank water heaters, according to the Energy Department.

CONS

Generally cost twice as much as traditional tank-style water heaters.

May be expensive to install in homes where vents and pipes need to be enlarged or rerouted, or electrical circuits need to be added.

May be difficult to install for plumbers and electricians who have little or no experience working with them.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tankless water heaters, like the Bosch AquaStar unit above, warm up water as it flows through them. At right is the inside of another Bosch AquaStar model. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); RIVERS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (60%) Water Heaters

PERSON: Kate Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (77%); WESTERN EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



612 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFINGS: EDUCATION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: RHODES AWARDED TO MARLTON RESIDENT

BYLINE: By Robert Strauss

 BODY:
Andrew Kim, of Marlton, was among the 32 students awarded the 2005 Rhodes Scholarship to study at Oxford University in England. Mr. Kim graduated from the University of Chicago, where he transferred after studying for two years at Deep Springs College in California. He is a graduate of Cherry Hill High School East. Mr. Kim, who has worked for the United States Agency for International Development and worked as an emergency medical technician in Marlton, will study international relations at Oxford next fall. Robert Strauss

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (52%); PARAMEDICS (51%) Colleges and Universities; Scholarships and Fellowships; Rhodes Scholarship

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%) Oxford University

PERSON: Andrew Kim; Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



613 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; TRAVEL ADVISORY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Cuba Penalizing Dollar Exchanges

BYLINE: By LYNN WADDELL

 BODY:
The Cuban government has prohibited United States dollars to be used in transactions without a 10 percent penalty to convert them into Cuban pesos.
 Although most Americans are not allowed to visit Cuba legally, the nonprofit Center for Constitutional Rights estimates that 64,000 a year will have gone this year -- down from at least 160,000 in 2003 -- traveling under exempt status or via package tours from Canada or Mexico. For Americans who go there, the most economical strategy is to first convert United States currency into Canadian dollars or some other stable foreign currency, said Bob Guild, program director of Marazul Charters, a Miami company that now takes about 7,000 people there a year under government-licensed programs. 
 ''Someone has to figure out the U.S. exchange rate for the euro and Canadian dollar,'' Mr. Guild said, ''but as it is today, if you are going to exchange more than $200, it would be wise to do it before you go.''
 Based on recent exchange rates and transaction fees, the dollar-to-euro-to-peso conversion makes $200 worth anywhere from 185 to 191 Cuban convertible pesos. Direct conversion of the same dollar amount to Cuban currency, with the new penalty, equates to 180 convertible pesos. The conversion is even costlier for foreign traveler's checks, which Cuban hotels charge 3 percent to cash. United States credit cards are not accepted in Cuba. 
 Mr. Guild recommends making the first step of the two-part exchange at the Bank of America in the Miami International Airport, where most legal United States travel to Cuba is routed; the costs are lower there than online (but it's wise to call the bank first). And online currency-exchange services generally require two days to process. 
 In Cuba, Mr. Guild recommends sticking with the more widely used sites -- a bank, hotel or cadeca (exchange house) -- and avoiding currency exchanges with people on the street who may try to trade regular pesos, which are worth far less but resemble convertible pesos, for American dollars. Convertible bills say ''pesos convertibles'' on them, but coins are less easily distinguished: Convertible coins picture a place, while the nonconvertible ones have images of people on the front.
 There's no charge to exchange convertible pesos to American dollars when leaving Cuba, but in the United States, pesos cannot be converted. LYNN WADDELL


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cuban convertible pesos. (Photo by Claudia Daut/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); EURO (75%); TOUR PACKAGES (71%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (70%); AIRPORTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (94%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



614 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Southwest Announces MacArthur Expansion

BYLINE: By David Winzelberg

 BODY:
Herb Kelleher, the chairman of Southwest Airlines, flew into MacArthur Airport in Islip on Monday to help officially dedicate Southwest's new terminal and announce a new $20 million expansion there.
 Town officials called the new project ''Phase 2'' after Southwest's $55 million terminal renovation debuted at the airport in August. 
Construction of the latest expansion is scheduled to begin this winter and take a year to complete. It will add four more gates and connect with the existing buildings.
 Local officials, including Representative Steve Israel, Democrat of Huntington, hailed the partnership between the town and Southwest, which has resulted in major improvements to the increasingly busy regional airport. Southwest began with 12 flights a day from Long Island in 1999. The airline now has 25 flights a day.
 Mr. Kelleher said that MacArthur was one of the fastest-growing regional airports that his company uses. 
 ''It's been sensational,'' he said. ''The growth has been tremendous. There are two and a half million people on Long Island. This is a great opportunity for us.''
 Mr. McGowan cited a new Hofstra University economic impact study that said MacArthur had generated $202 million for the Island's economy in 2004.
 But residents who live nearby oppose further expansion of the airport because of noise and other environmental concerns. David Winzelberg


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); AIRLINES (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airports; Macarthur Airport (Long Island, NY)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (55%) Southwest Airlines

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: STEVE ISRAEL (58%) Herb Kelleher; David Winzelberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



615 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Clason Point, the Bronx; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Change Wafts In Along the Bronx Waterfront

BYLINE: By CLAIRE WILSON

 BODY:
CRAIG RADIX still can't believe his luck. He wanted a nice house, but he didn't want to leave the Bronx. Long Island and New Jersey just didn't do it for him. In the end, he traded the slightly grittier surroundings of his old Castle Hill neighborhood for fresh sea breezes -- and the usual grim pigeons for brilliant red cardinals, honking geese and an occasional osprey -- when he and his family moved last spring into a brand new, four-bedroom, four-bathroom waterfront home just a few blocks south in Clason Point. 
 ''I always wanted something on the water, but to find coastal in the Bronx was mind blowing,'' said Mr. Radix, a commercial and residential property manager. ''I now have all my worlds in the same place -- the Bronx, coastal and new construction -- and I didn't have to pay a toll or go to Westchester to get it.'' 
 ''And next year,'' he added, ''we're going to put in a pier and get a boat.'' 
 Mr. Radix and his wife, Maria, a banking assistant at Lehman Brothers, and their two children, Blake, 9, and Sophia, 5, are among the many families rediscovering this part of the Bronx waterfront, which was once best known for Shorehaven, one of the borough's prime summer beach clubs, now closed. 
 Bordered on the west by Lacombe Avenue, the square-ish spit of land is surrounded on the remaining three sides by water and park land. To the north is Pugsley Creek, to the east, the East River and to the south, Soundview Park, at the edge of which is the 26-acre, 1,255-unit Soundview Houses, a public housing project. 
 Only about an hour by express bus from Midtown Manhattan and well served by a tangle of highways, the neighborhood is a mix of ethnic groups. Older homes on quiet streets, casually maintained clusters of winterized bungalows and former boatyards are giving way to handsome new homes and a growing number of somewhat overdue refurbishments spurred by neighborly competition.
 ''It's really diverse, from the people to their economic status, the style of houses and the way new and old and everything in between co-exists,'' said Mr. Radix, a Bronx native. ''Everybody seems to gel.'' 
 Mr. Radix paid $510,000 for his two-family attached home with a rental unit, which is typical of the kind of new homes being built in the area, according to Annie Persaud, a broker with JGA Realty in Morris Park. ''It's mainly two-families because the type of family that moves in here depends on the rental income,'' Ms. Persaud said. ''It's for working-class and middle-class people and not the kind of place you'd find a lavish one-family.'' 
 Swaranjit Singh, a broker at Re/Max Advantage in Bellerose Village, Queens, has a five-bedroom, three-bath attached two-family listed for $529,000, up from the original $289,000 it sold for as new about two and a half years ago. It is part of Harbour Pointe at Shorehaven, a new residential community-in-progress that rises like the Emerald City at the end of White Plains Road. On more than 33 acres with sweeping views of Manhattan, the East River and the Bronx-Whitestone Bridge, the complex will eventually have such luxury amenities as pools, tennis courts and a fitness club. According to Leslie Lerner, a partner in the Beechwood Organization, based in Jericho, N.Y., developers of the property, 400 five-bedroom, three-and-a-half-bath two-family units are planned, of which 75 have been completed. Adjacent to Harbour Pointe at Shorehaven is Shorehaven Condominiums, a 256-unit gated condominium community where a three-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath unit sold recently for $225,000, according to Robert Wheeler, a New York City police inspector who is president of the condominium association. Common charges on that unit are $340.98 a month, he said. 
 Most rentals in the area are in new buildings. They start at about $900 a month, which is the amount Mr. Radix is contemplating charging for his one-bedroom, and plateau at about $1,100 for a two-bedroom unit, said Mr. Singh, who, in addition to being a Re/Max broker, is a motivational speaker for the Sikh community. 
 ''People are asking for $1,200 to $1,400 but they can't find the tenants,'' he said. 
 Nestled at the lower reaches of Clason Point is Harding Park, an 18-acre parcel crowded with 236 former summer cottages turned year-round houses whose owners pay $19 a month in common charges, according to Jose Gonzales, president of the Harding Park Homeowners Association, which owns the land but not the homes. The narrow lanes, bungalow architecture and boat paraphernalia hark back to an era when this part of the Bronx was an oasis for warm-weather sybarites. 
 ''I was from a poor neighborhood so my mother sent me here on vacation,'' recalled Mr. Gonzalez, a Brooklyn native. ''This was considered the country.'' 
 But as far back as the Sinoway Indians, the coastline was a hotbed of activity. There were numerous ferries, and during Prohibition, gangsters unloaded bootlegged hooch. Boatyards lined the shore, and the Castle Hill Pool was an immediate hit when it opened in 1927. Clason Point (pronounced CLAW-son) once boasted an amusement pier said to rival Coney Island, according to an area historian, Arthur Seifert, who has lived in the neighborhood for more than 70 years. 
 ''When I moved here in '33, there were still farms,'' he said. ''I remember trying to plow the field behind a horse.'' 
 The farms are gone and so are most of the boatyards, but entertainment possibilities abound. The Y.M.C.A. on nearby Castle Hill Avenue has indoor and outdoor pools, the Harding Park Homeowners Association is building a new community center and the Point Yacht Club still flies its burgee from the tip of Clason Point. It was a few blocks away, on stage at the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club on Randall Avenue, that Jennifer Lopez first strutted her stuff. Every spring, proceeds from the Kips Bay Decorator Show House benefit this center, which has the area's only ice rink. 
 The area's parks, wetlands and waterfront are perhaps the biggest draw. There are annual boating events down the Bronx River, and while they are not as well-equipped as other parks in the borough, the 196-acre Soundview Park and the 78-acre Pugsley Creek Park, while they are not as well-equipped as other parks in the borough, are popular with residents for their green spaces and unusual waterfowl. 
 ''One of the great little secrets is the jogging path that runs about a mile from Story Avenue to Harding Park,'' said Lucindo Suarez, presiding justice of the Appellate Term of State Supreme Court, a resident of Shorehaven Condominiums who this month finished his seventh New York City Marathon. ''I run 3, 4, 5 miles early in the morning and I really enjoy it.'' 
 Schools in the area include Public School 69, on Theriot Avenue, which has 500 students enrolled from prekindergarten through fifth grade. Of fourth graders, 74 percent perform above average in math, and 48.6 percent perform above average in English. The closest intermediate school is Intermediate School 174, on White Plains Road. It has an enrollment of 1,400 students in Grades 5 through 8. Among eighth graders, 30.5 percent perform above grade level in math, and 23.1 percent read above grade level. 
 Most I.S. 174 students continue on to Adlai E. Stevenson High School, on Lafayette Avenue, which has an enrollment of 3,000. For those taking the SAT reasoning tests last year, the average score was 395 in math, compared with a statewide average of 510; and 389 on the verbal test, compared with 496 statewide. About 45 percent of graduating seniors in 2003 went on to four-year colleges. 
 Parochial schools include the Roman Catholic Holy Cross School, on Randall Avenue, which teaches 500 students from prekindergarten through eighth grade. Annual tuition is $3,400 for pre-K and $2,800 for kindergarten through Grade 8.
 Bruckner Plaza on White Plains Road is the closest local shopping destination, with a supermarket and a Kmart as anchor stores for other chain retailers like Old Navy and Toys ''R'' Us. A sprinkling of small shops can be found within Clason Point, and a small strip mall coming to Soundview Avenue promises to enliven the retail scene. 
 For others, Clason Point is just lively enough. ''It will always be a paradise to whomever lives here,'' said Mr. Seifert, the historian. ''If they want it to be.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: EAST RIVER LIVING -- Bungalows and boatyards are giving way to new two-family homes in the Clason Point section of the Bronx. Many families use the rental income to help pay the mortgage. (Photographs by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)
On the Market: STEPHENS AVENUE -- Two new two-family semiattached units at Nos. 226 and 228 each have a total of five bedrooms and three baths
$550,000 each. (718)239-3100.
WHITE PLAINS ROAD -- This two-family attached house at No. 105 has a total of five bedrooms and three baths, and is listed at $529,000. (516)698-2222.
TAYLOR AVENUE -- This two-family detached house at No. 334 has a total of five bedrooms and two baths, and is listed at $425,000. (718)239-4400.Chart: ''GAZETTEER''POPULATION: 6,821AREA: 0.43 square milesMEDIAN INCOME: $40,831.71MEDIAN PRICE OF A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $285,000MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $160,000TAXES ON A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $1,450MEDIAN PRICE OF A TWO-FAMILY HOUSE: $400,000TAXES ON A NEW TWO-FAMILY HOUSE: $750, with an eight-year tax abatementMIDRANGE RENT ON A TWO-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $1,000DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN: 11 milesCOMMUTE TO MIDTOWN: One hour via New York Bus Service express bus
 75 minutes via the Nos. 4, 5 and 6 trains from Parkchester, with transfer from the No. 39 local bus down White Plains AvenueZIP CODE: 10473COST OF VIDEO RENTAL AT ROBERTO'S ON GILDERSLEEVE AVENUE: $2Map of the Bronx highlighting Clason Point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); FAMILY (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (74%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); BOAT BUILDING (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%) Geographic Profiles

COMPANY: RADIX II INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Claire Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Clason Point (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



616 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Greed Is Good

BYLINE: By Heather Bourbeau

 BODY:

AN EMPIRE OF WEALTH
The Epic History of American
Economic Power.
By John Steele Gordon.
460 pp. HarperCollins Publishers. $26.95.
 In less than 400 years, the United States has gone from a collection of European outposts to a dominant military and financial powerhouse. Perhaps it is only appropriate that the history of an economy as impressive as America's should be told by an author with multiple personalities -- unabashed cheerleader, high school teacher, agile storyteller. Yet in reading ''An Empire of Wealth: The Epic History of American Economic Power,'' one wishes John Steele Gordon had chosen just one.
 To his credit, Gordon, a historian and columnist at American Heritage magazine, exhibits a firm grasp of political economy and finance without suffering from the fabled equivocal nature of economists. From the founding of successful East Coast colonies by British joint stock companies to the attacks of Sept. 11, he ably traces the birth and development of the American economy. As he notes, the United States has been ''positioned to exploit first and most fully the boundless opportunities of a new political economy based on opportunity.'' Too often, however, the text reads like a primer rather than the involving ''epic'' of its subtitle.
 Epics of any sort are best hung on mythic figures, and when Gordon, an avid raconteur of character-driven financial histories, concentrates on the personalities of America's history, his prose comes alive. Tales of railroad and shipping magnates like Cornelius Vanderbilt, trading tycoons like J. P. Morgan and oil barons like John D. Rockefeller serve as much as portholes to the drama of eras long gone as parables of excess and wasted opportunities. 
 Familiar personages like Henry Ford get a welcome revisiting here. As Gordon points out, Ford's personality ultimately helped his competition for decades to come. ''By the mid-1920's the Model T was out of date both technologically and commercially, but Ford refused to change.'' So General Motors leapt into the void created by his stubborn insistence on cost savings rather than on customer satisfaction, promoting novel ideas like different-colored cars and electric starters. Ford the man never lost his focus, but Ford the company would never regain its lead. 
 Of equal interest is Gordon's history of taxation. The development of the income tax system, coupled with the opening of the economy to international competition through the lowering of tariffs, underscores the divergent evolutions of the Democratic and Republican parties, as well as the reasons behind a persistent North-South divide. And the contentious past can illuminate the drawbacks and benefits of tax-cut and budget proposals now being debated in Washington.
 Yet, as with any book that condenses centuries into a few hundred pages, several topics are brushed over. Little more than a dozen pages are allotted to the last 20 years, a period of great transformations in the American and world economies. At the same time, basic concepts of money and inflation are given more space than is warranted. 
 One of the more curious omissions concerns the role of property rights. In his introduction, Gordon emphasizes the legacy of England's open system of property ownership as one explanation for the extraordinary growth of the United States, as compared with the other New World superstar, Argentina. Yet he fails to provide a country-by-country analysis of past competitors, and he ignores the ownership issues in a more mature American economy. Notably, there is a lack of attention paid to the enlarging unified market of Europe.
 Nonetheless, tucked inside ''An Empire of Wealth'' are kernels of cautionary wisdom. Each chapter builds on arguments about the necessary power of monetary policy, the benefits of free trade, and the delicate balance between debt for stimulation and deficit drags on the economy. In the end, Gordon's chronicle is an inconsistent but satisfying collection of tales.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); HISTORY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); LITERATURE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); TAX LAW (64%); INCOME TAX (60%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (56%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (53%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (82%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (82%); F (NYSE) (82%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (79%) Heather Borbeau; John Steele Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



617 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: COMBAT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: After Falluja, U.S. Troops Fight a New Battle Just as Important, and Just as Tough

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: CAMP KALSU, Iraq, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
As American commanders turn their concentration toward the area of sullen towns and villages that straddle the southern approaches to Baghdad, they face a battle that is in many ways as crucial to their hopes as Falluja has been. And they enter a battleground where loyalties to Saddam Hussein and the burning enmity for America are at least as intense. 
 Without a major success here, the battle for Falluja, 50 miles to the northwest, could come to be seen as a Pyrrhic victory, one that reduced much of the city to rubble, cost more than 50 American combat deaths and prompted many insurgents to move on and regroup for yet more chapters in an ever-lengthening war. 
 The first days of the new campaign suggest it may outstrip Falluja in the demands it will make on American patience and tactical skills. 
 Once again, marines are leading the fight here, with the best of Iraq's American-trained troops alongside them. But in this area, known for its ceaseless rounds of suicide bombings and ambushes, there will be no knockout blows with tanks and bombs. Rather, as Marine commanders emphasized when 5,000 troops began the offensive this week, success will be built raid by raid, arrest by arrest, until the latticework of rebel cells in virtually every village and town is weakened and the will to sustain the insurgency is broken. 
 Commanders expect the main offensive to last another week. But nobody is talking about quick victories, rather of the new raids setting the scene for more later on.
 A chart of suspected rebels that was developed over months by American intelligence officers and Iraqi undercover agents, laid out like a genealogical table, measures 10 feet by 4 feet. Unrolled in the command center at this Marine base in the desert southeast of the town of Iskandariya, it lists hundreds of rebel leaders, financiers and fighters, grouped together by family, by tribe and by past links in Mr. Hussein's military, political and intelligence apparatus.
 ''Every day, we have to stay the course,'' said Col. Ron Johnson, 48, a native of Duxbury, Mass., who commands the 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit, whose operational area covers parts of three Iraqi provinces with a combined population of 1.2 million. ''We're in here for the long haul,'' he said.
 Still, the mood among Marine officers is cautiously upbeat, and the belief, as put to reporters embedded for the offensive, is that the war here can still be won. The immediate objective is to deal a hard enough blow to the insurgents that plans can proceed for the election scheduled for Jan. 30. On its face, this area, the southernmost extension of the Sunni triangle, running about 60 miles south of Baghdad and about 80 miles across, with the Euphrates River to the west and the Tigris to the east, is about as unpromising a political terrain for those favoring elections as any region in Iraq.
 About 60 percent of the population living here, in towns like Mahmudiya, Latifiya, Yusufiya, Iskandariya, Musayyib and Hilla, are Sunnis. The rest are Shiite, a group that accounts for about 60 percent of the Iraqi population and strongly favors the election as a way station to Shiite majority rule.
 But the religious breakdown alone cannot explain the insurgency's intensity. Sunnis here were favored for decades by Mr. Hussein, who made the area immediately south of Baghdad into a strategic bedrock of his rule. Many of his Republican Guard units were based here and were locally recruited. Weapons research establishments were concentrated here, as were many of the country's main munitions plants.
 The American-led invasion 18 months ago destroyed those privileges, and left many local people unemployed. The disbanding of the Mr. Hussein's army made things worse. The insurgency spread rapidly in the months after Mr. Hussein was toppled, feeding off the combination of idled military skills, huge stockpiles of weapons and ammunition, and Sunni resentment at the prospect of being politically usurped.
 Early on in American military planning, commanders knew that a campaign to wrest Falluja from the insurgents would necessitate an offensive here, but limitations of logistics, air power and troops dictated the two offensives be staged sequentially. One disadvantage was that this gave the Falluja rebels a ready refuge, one that American generals sought to inhibit by asking Britain to move an 850-soldier battalion of the Black Watch north from Basra to a base just west of the Euphrates.
 Marine intelligence officers estimate that 200 to 500 rebels from Falluja, many of them natives of the region south of Baghdad that is the focus of the new offensive, have come here in the past few weeks; some officers say those estimates are too low, as they also say official estimates of 1,200 insurgents killed in Falluja are too high. 
 Marine intelligence officers say there are 400 to 500 ''core leaders'' of the Sunni insurgency in the area, many of them former ranking members of Mr. Hussein's Baath Party or senior officers in his military. Although they describe the insurgency as heavily decentralized, they have identified two new political groups that knit together these rebel leaders, one of them known as the Return or Restoration Party. These men, they say, have made common cause in the insurgency with the numerous criminal gangs in the area, who also have much to lose in the new American push. The intelligence estimates say that insurgent attacks in the area are carried out by 2,000 to 6,000 rebels, many of them unemployed youths or criminals released from jail by Mr. Hussein before he was driven from power. In many cases, American officers say, captured men have told them that they were paid sums ranging from $20 to $200 to stage ambushes or plant explosives that are detonated by ''part-time triggermen,'' many of them also paid.
 If correct, the estimates make for a startling contrast with the American estimates a year ago, when commanders said they believed that there were no more than 5,000 insurgents across the whole of Iraq.
 The havoc the rebels have wrought here emerges from the marines' tallies of recent attacks. In a little over a month, the insurgents have mounted 350 separate attacks, including 12 suicide car bombings and nearly 80 remotely detonated roadside bombs. Since midsummer, when the marines deployed into the area, they have lost 18 men. But by far the heaviest toll has been taken by Iraqi policemen and national guardsmen, of whom nearly 150 have been killed, many by bombs.
 Attacks on the police have left barely 550 policemen at work across the entire region, a fraction of the number under Mr. Hussein, and many police stations abandoned.
 Despite the attacks, Colonel Johnson said he believed the advantage in the war was moving the Americans' way. Rather than seeing the rising tempo of attacks as a sign of growing confidence among the rebels, he believes the insurgents have stepped up their aggression because they fear they are losing the war.
 One reason for this, the colonel said, was the growing involvement of Iraqi troops in the fighting alongside the Americans, and the Iraqis' increasing confidence. ''Time is not on the insurgents' side,'' Colonel Johnson said. ''Each day, the Iraqi security forces are getting better and better.'' 
 Altogether, in the past four months, more than 600 men have been detained in raids across the area, many of them as a result of intelligence delivered by Iraqi troops and intelligence officers.
 ''I'll tell you, one I.S.F. who is loyal and effective is worth five marines,'' Colonel Johnson said, using the abbreviation for men in the Iraqi security forces. ''They know exactly who these people running the insurgency are.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi National Guard soldiers checked results of target practice yesterday at Camp Kalsu, near Iskandariya. (Photo by Jason P. Howe/World Picture News, The New York Times)Map of Iraq highlighting Iskandariya: Camp Kalsu, a Marine base, is southeast of Iskandariya.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (86%); BOMBINGS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); RUNNING (67%); POLITICS (61%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; Intelligence Services; Elections; Identification Devices; Politics and Government

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) John F Burns; Saddam Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%) Iraq; Falluja (Iraq); Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



618 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2846 words

HEADLINE: American Psyche

BYLINE: By Thomas Frank

 BODY:

THE GREAT DIVIDE
Retro vs. Metro America.
By John Sperling, Suzanne Helburn, Samuel George, John Morris and Carl Hunt.
Illustrated. 272 pp. PoliPoint Press. $39.95.

THE UNCIVIL WAR
How a New Elite Is Destroying
Our Democracy.
By David Lebedoff.
191 pp. Taylor Trade Publishing. $24.95.

WHO WE ARE NOW
The Changing Face of America in the
Twenty-First Century.
By Sam Roberts.
293 pp. Times Books/
Henry Holt & Company. $27.50.

MYTHS OF FREE TRADE
Why American Trade Policy Has Failed.
By Sherrod Brown.
228 pp. The New Press. $24.95.
 THAT we are a nation divided is an almost universal lament of this bitter election year. However, the exact property that divides us -- elemental though it is said to be -- remains a matter of some controversy. One thing is certain in the search to unravel the mystery of the ''great divide'': we know for sure the answer isn't class. We can rule that uncomfortable subject out from the start.
 The best-known iteration of the theme is the red-state, blue-state theory, which won instant currency after the election of 2000. From the color-coded, state-by-state results of Bush vs. Gore, it was said, we could extrapolate the grandest of social conclusions. We could distinguish two separate civilizations living side by side in our land: one patriotic and the other self-loathing; one authentic and the other affected; one fond of Fords while the other swooned senselessly for Saabs.
 Despite its naked partisanship and its extreme vulnerability to refutation, the red-blue narrative held the punditry in such awe that, inevitably, it generated its precise antithesis: ''The Great Divide: Retro vs. Metro America,'' in which all the stereotypes are reversed and all the partisanship flows the other way; in which the noble heartland red-staters come off as subsidy-hogging boors while the effete blue-staters of conservative propaganda are transformed into a thoughtful, enlightened producer class.
 ''The Great Divide'' was notable for its clever ad campaign, which ran in the various national newspapers in the summer of Bush vs. Kerry and which usually consisted of two photographs -- say, Mel Gibson and Michael Moore -- to illustrate the idea that there are two Americas with irreconcilable cultures. The book's design is similarly polished; countless maps, charts and full-color photos mimic the reassuring pattern of a high-school social studies textbook (the package includes as well a CD with graphics and appendixes, slipped on the inside back cover).
 The product, though, has nowhere near the clarity and simplicity of the packaging. The book was, as acknowledged on its Web site (www.retrovsmetro.org), a ''team'' effort: its title page lists four authors (three of them economists), a pollster and two researchers, all of them led by John Sperling, a Cambridge-trained economist and the billionaire founder of the University of Phoenix, among other enterprises. The style varies so greatly over the course of the text -- the innards dryly parse the problems afflicting the American workforce, while the first four chapters polemically lay out the neoregionalist theme -- that the book is best approached as two separate volumes, riven by a great divide of its own.
 The more valuable half is the interior, effectively a detailed appendix to the barging introductory chapters. Indeed, its discussion of the disconnect between wage growth (or the lack of it) and productivity growth, to choose just one example, ought to be read by all management theorists, Wall Street gurus and CNBC pundits before their next pronouncements on the magic powers of the unfettered free market to enrich us all. Unfortunately, the insides don't seem to have been read by the authors of the book's bluster-packed opening section. Here the goal is to blend together two of the worst big ideas of recent years -- the new economy fantasy of the 1990's and the red/blue thesis of the last few years -- into a universal narrative that can simultaneously direct the electoral strategy of the Democratic Party and inform future scholarship. The essential cleavage in American life, the authors argue, is not between left and right or business class and working class; instead, it is a regional matter, a cultural divide between the states, polarized and unbridgeable. One America, to judge from the book's illustrations, works with lovable robots and lives in ''vibrant'' cities with ballet troupes, super-creative Frank Gehry buildings and quiet, tasteful religious ritual; the other relies on contemptible extraction industries (oil, gas and coal) and inhabits a world of white supremacy and monster truck shows and religious ceremonies in which beefy men in cheap clothes scream incomprehensibly at one another.
 A stereotype, to be sure, but a stereotype that we must not underestimate; versions of it have been floating around in the new economy and New Democrat literature for years; and for a large number of centrist Democratic thinkers, this may be the real deal, a Rosetta stone to decipher and to win over America. ''The Great Divide'' furnishes them with demographic, poll-based vindication for the strategy they have been pursuing all along: forget the focus on class conflict that defined the party in the old days, and rebrand the Democrats as the voice of enlightened industry versus dirty industry; of sensitive, artistic billionaires versus loathsome, racist billionaires. 
 In the half of the book making this argument there is an error or misstatement or indefensible historical interpretation on nearly every page (and this despite the formidable research demonstrated by the footnotes, which I should say include references to my own work). Some of these can be dismissed as the fault of the authors, of course, but most are intrinsic to the argument itself, to the impossible demands of tracing a cultural cleavage that seems to give Democrats an edge and that simultaneously denies the significance of social class.
 Take, for example, the authors' fixation on extraction industries (in which they mysteriously include farming), to which they return repeatedly to explain American conservatism. Since states that have large extraction sectors tended to support Bush, there must be something retrograde and Republicanizing about those industries, something beyond the simple facts that Bush himself came out of the oil industry and that many oil honchos are on the right. The closest the authors come to an explanation is the assertion that the extraction tradition is one of ''plundering the earth'' with the help of ''poorly educated, low-wage labor.'' Metro America, on the other hand, is the kind of rosy place depicted in television commercials for Microsoft, where lots of ''diverse'' things go on because people have embraced a ''postindustrial digital economy.''
 Economic determinism ordinarily rubs Americans the wrong way, but for some reason this particularly blunt variety enjoys extravagant popularity with the map-and-poll set in Washington. Economics are fate, in the most sweeping sense, with people of all classes bearing the political imprint of whatever industry is statistically dominant in their region. The actual process by which this imprinting operation takes place, however, is never explained or even really examined. The even more glaring question of why poorly educated, low-wage labor in Retroland would vote for a system that only benefits its masters is scarcely raised. In ''The Great Divide'' we never find out precisely how it is that coal mining clouds the minds of the people who live in coal states; the map is supposed to be sufficient evidence of the effect. Coal mining is here and here and here, and these places voted Republican. Ergo, extraction industries make people ''Retro.''
 The mysteries of religion are brushed off even more abruptly. We can see from electoral maps that the most Republican areas also tend to be dominated by Southern Baptists, Methodists or Lutherans; these three denominations are therefore lumped together as evangelical churches, a term which is soon upgraded to evangelical-fundamentalist and then charged by the authors with inexcusable backwardness. Bringing forward little evidence other than those maps, they write that ''evangelical/fundamentalist religion . . . leads to: rejection of scientific method, especially the belief in evolution; racial/ethnic prejudice and discriminatory behavior; sexist/discriminato-ry attitudes toward women and homosexuals.''
 Between extraction and evangelicalism, Sperling and company conclude, entire regions of the country are lost to the Democrats. What's more, they assert -- overlooking the inconvenient fact that the explosive growth in fundamentalism is a relatively recent phenomenon -- these regions have always been backward, always been lost. Metro versus Retro: the categories are eternal; they go back to colonial times. The authors' advice to Democrats is simply to forget about those racist clods on the other side. Walk away from them. Don't waste your time trying to figure them out.
 As political strategy this is folly; as social theory it is something even worse. It is not just that the authors' interpretations are insupportable or that they get the Methodist and Lutheran traditions wildly, inexcusably wrong. What I mean is that this way of judging entire regions, religions and classes by polls and current electoral maps inevitably does violence to historical truth. Surely one of the authors' many researchers could have pointed out that while mine owners have indeed been reactionaries in the past, mine workers were once famous for their radicalism -- think of ''Big Bill'' Haywood or the United Mine Workers or ''Harlan County, U.S.A.'' Similarly, it may smooth the narrative to lump agriculture with extraction industries, and dismiss farmers as subsidy addicts irreversibly deaf to the wisdom of Metro America, but to do so the authors must ignore the innumerable writers and politicians who have described farming as an occupation that teaches unforgettable lessons in the madness of the free market. And naturally they must downplay the many waves of radicalism that farming has produced over the years.
 The substitution of region for class produces many distortions, but the worst is the treatment of the pitched electoral battle of 1896, in which Populists and Democrats united behind William Jennings Bryan while eastern industry backed William McKinley. Seen through the lenses of class conflict, that election was the precise opposite of today's red-blue contests, with the South and the Great Plains on fire for reform rather than conservatism. Viewed through the Retro-Metro prism, however, there is perfect continuity. In this view, Bryan was no progressive but just another fundie who spoke for ''America's major extraction industry: agriculture,'' while McKinley, by serving the needs of big business, stood squarely in the Metro tradition, the line that was to yield ''our present urban, suburban, eclectic, multiethnic, multireligious and multigendered society.''
 The Retro-Metro authors may not have known it, but they weren't the only ones drawing inspiration from the 1896 presidential contest this year. Karl Rove, too, spoke often of his admiration for William McKinley, and of his desire to win the sort of shattering victory over liberalism that McKinley did. The same weird coming together can be found in the book's desire to identify Democrats with the new economy, in apparent ignorance of the fact that high-profile conservatives -- from Ronald Reagan to Newt Gingrich to George Gilder -- had already staked a pretty strong claim to that particular bit of cultural territory. My own political instinct in regard to the new economy is: Let the conservatives have it. And in the aftermath of Enron, WorldCom and the Nasdaq crash, let them have it good and hard. 
 Not these authors. What is most disheartening about ''The Great Divide,'' or its first half, anyway, is its advice to Democrats to present themselves as the true party of business, and to cast conservatism as a superstitious doctrine that undermines our international competitiveness. Combine this longing to be the political choice of new-economy winners with the book's thinly veiled contempt for Southerners and most Midwesterners, and Sperling and company have walked cluelessly into a familiar stereotype: the ''liberal elite.'' 
 The authors of ''The Great Divide'' do not much concern themselves with the thinking of the other side, preferring to brush it all off as extraction-spawned hallucination. They would have done well to read ''The Uncivil War,'' a book by David Lebedoff that is in some ways an eerie mirror image of their own. Both pooh-pooh traditional notions of social class, insisting that the conflict of haves and have-nots has been supplanted by a new social divide. Lebedoff, a lawyer and the author of four previous books, including ''Cleaning Up,'' considers it a ''new class war'' in which a group defined by its faith in measured intelligence lords it over the ''Left Behinds,'' an assortment of blue-collars and blue-bloods united by a commitment to traditional society. This book, too, is better read as an artifact of the current confused moment than as a persuasive text. Lebedoff writes elegantly but he scarcely bothers to substantiate his assertions: here what replaces class is anti-intellectualism, not regionalism. We are all said to be under the thumb of a ''New Elite,'' an arrogant meritocracy that believes ''the experts know best'' and that, in its hubris, ''hates the idea of majority rule.'' Even if you've never heard of Lebedoff you've heard this argument repeated a thousand times on AM radio, on Fox News, in the pages of conservative magazines -- and yet there is a warning here that Democrats ought to heed as they regroup for 2008. Suppose what Sperling and company say is true; suppose the professionals and ''creatives'' really are becoming open to Democratic appeals: Lebedoff reminds us that becoming the party of an economic and cultural elite isn't necessarily a winning move, since it only reinforces conservatives' efforts to position themselves as the populists in a redefined class war. ''A new class is growing,'' he writes, ''but the backlash against it is growing, too, and potentially involves a larger number of voters.''
 After these dizzying theoretical ascensions, these minute examinations of demographic shadows, it is refreshing to be reminded of how convincingly the old, familiar categories can still explain the reality around us, if we will only bother to pay attention. In ''Who We Are Now,'' his second book making sense of census and other data, Sam Roberts, a New York Times editor, offers a quick and brutal snapshot of the trends in wealth distribution: wages (not adjusted for inflation) have doubled since 1981, while compensation for the country's ten top C.E.O.'s has increased 4,300 percent; meanwhile, the top one-tenth of a percent of the population, who collectively made about 100 times the average household income in 1970, now make 560 times the average.
 Someone who understands the implication of this is Representative Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from the steel-producing 13th District of Ohio, and a liberal of the old school. In ''Myths of Free Trade'' he describes the role that the false religion of unregulated free trade has had in reopening the class divide, and also what we might do about it. For him the word ''elite'' refers not to someone who likes books, but to the industry lobbyists whose planes clogged National Airport and whose gifts inundated Capitol Hill during the debate over Nafta. Brown could easily have taken the anti-intellectual route to populism since, as he points out, virtually the entire pundit class, regardless of party, routinely supports free-trade agreements (and just as routinely depicts opponents as ''selling out the poor'' or Luddites). The real battle he lays out is not between salt-of-the-earth folks and effete know-it-alls, or between tolerant Metro and screeching Retro: it is between all of us and the corporate power that today bombards labor and environment from the ideological heights of free trade. Deregulate, privatize and let the invisible hand have its way, this power tells us now, and everything will be just fine for everybody. But of course it has never been that simple. ''It has been a 100-year battle between the privileged and the rest of us,'' Brown reminds us. ''We took on oil and chemical companies to enact clean air and safe drinking water laws,'' he adds. ''We fought off Wall Street bankers to create Social Security. We battled entrenched business interests to enact women's and civil rights, protections for the disabled and prohibitions on child labor. We fought for all of it. Every bit of progress made in the struggle for economic and social justice came over the opposition of society's most privileged and most powerful.'' As this bright new day of the free-trade faith threatens to take it all apart, Brown invites us to look where we might just be going.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (77%); PUBLISHING (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (63%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (62%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); WEB SITES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews; Books and Literature

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (57%)

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (75%) Frank Thomas; John Sperling; Suzanne Helburn; Samuel George; John Morris; Carl E (Dr) Hunt; David Lebedoff; Sam Roberts; Sherrod (Rep) Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



619 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2991 words

HEADLINE: Lockheed and the Future of Warfare

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

 BODY:
LOCKHEED MARTIN doesn't run the United States. But it does help run a breathtakingly big part of it.
 Over the last decade, Lockheed, the nation's largest military contractor, has built a formidable information-technology empire that now stretches from the Pentagon to the post office. It sorts your mail and totals your taxes. It cuts Social Security checks and counts the United States census. It runs space flights and monitors air traffic. To make all that happen, Lockheed writes more computer code than Microsoft.
 Of course, Lockheed, based in Bethesda, Md., is best known for its weapons, which are the heart of America's arsenal. It builds most of the nation's warplanes. It creates rockets for nuclear missiles, sensors for spy satellites and scores of other military and intelligence systems. The Pentagon and the Central Intelligence Agency might have difficulty functioning without the contractor's expertise. 
 But in the post-9/11 world, Lockheed has become more than just the biggest corporate cog in what Dwight D. Eisenhower called the military-industrial complex. It is increasingly putting its stamp on the nation's military policies, too.
 Lockheed stands at ''the intersection of policy and technology,'' and that ''is really a very interesting place to me,'' said its new chief executive, Robert J. Stevens, a tightly wound former Marine. ''We are deployed entirely in developing daunting technology,'' he said, and that requires ''thinking through the policy dimensions of national security as well as technological dimensions.''
 To critics, however, Lockheed's deep ties with the Pentagon raise some questions. ''It's impossible to tell where the government ends and Lockheed begins,'' said Danielle Brian of the Project on Government Oversight, a nonprofit group in Washington that monitors government contracts. ''The fox isn't guarding the henhouse. He lives there.''
 No contractor is in a better position than Lockheed to do business in Washington. Nearly 80 percent of its revenue comes from the United States government. Most of the rest comes from foreign military sales, many financed with tax dollars. And former Lockheed executives, lobbyists and lawyers hold crucial posts at the White House and the Pentagon, picking weapons and setting policies.
 Obviously, war and crisis have been good for business. The Pentagon's budget for buying new weapons rose by about a third over the last three years, to $81 billion in fiscal 2004, up from $60 billion in 2001. Lockheed's sales also rose by about a third, to nearly $32 billion in the 2003 calendar year, from $24 billion in 2001. It was the No.1 recipient of Pentagon primary contracts, with $21.9 billion in fiscal 2003. Boeing had $17.3 billion, Northrop Grumman had $11.1 billion and General Dynamics had $8.2 billion. 
 LOCKHEED also has many tens of billions of dollars in future orders on its books. The company's stock has tripled in the last four years, to just under $60.
 ''It used to be just an airplane company,'' said John Pike, a longtime military analyst and director of GlobalSecurity.org, a research organization in Alexandria, Va. ''Now it's a warfare company. It's an integrated solution provider. It's a one-stop shop. Anything you need to kill the enemy, they will sell you.'' 
 As its influence grows, Lockheed is not just seeking to solve the problems of national security. It is framing the questions as well:
 Are there too few soldiers to secure the farthest reaches of Iraq? Lockheed is creating robot soldiers and neural software -- ''intelligent agents'' -- to do their work. ''We've now created policy options where you can elect to put a human in or you can elect to put an intelligent agent in place,'' Mr. Stevens said.
 Are thousands of C.I.A. and Pentagon analysts drowning under a flood of data, incapable of seeing patterns? Lockheed's ''intelligence information factory'' will do their thinking for them. Mining and sifting categories of facts -- for example, linking an adversary's movements and telephone calls -- would ''offload the mental work by making connections,'' said Stanton D. Sloane, executive vice president for integrated systems and solutions at Lockheed. 
 Are American soldiers hard-pressed to tell friend from foe in the crags of Afghanistan? Lockheed is transferring spy satellite technology, created for mapping mountain ridges, to build a mobile lab for reading fingerprints. Lockheed executives say the mobile lab, the size of a laptop, is just the tool for special-operations commandos. It can be loaded with the prints of suspected terrorists, they say, and linked to the F.B.I.'s 470 million print files. They say they think that American police departments will want it, too.
 Does the Department of Homeland Security have the best tools to protect the nation? Lockheed has a host of military and intelligence technologies to offer. ''What they do for the military in downtown Falluja, they can do for the police in downtown Reno,'' said Jondavid Black of the company's Horizontal Integration Vision division. Lockheed is also building a huge high-altitude airship, 25 times bigger than the Goodyear blimp, intended to help the Pentagon with the unsolved problem of protecting the nation from ballistic missiles. The airship, with two tons of surveillance sensors, could be used by the Department of Homeland Security to stare down at the United States, Lockheed officials said. 
 In a pilot program for the department, Lockheed has set up spy cameras and sensors on the U.S.S. New Jersey, anchored in the Delaware River, providing 24-hour surveillance of the ports of Philadelphia and Camden, N.J. The program grew out of the Aegis weapons and surveillance systems for Navy ships, and it soon may spread throughout the United States.
 The melding of military and intelligence programs, information-technology and domestic security spending began in earnest after the Sept. 11 attacks. Lockheed was perfectly positioned to take advantage of the shift. When the United States government decided a decade ago to let corporate America handle federal information technology, Lockheed leapt at the opportunity. Its information-technology sales have quadrupled since 1995, and, for all those years, Lockheed has been the No.1 supplier to the federal government, which now outsources 83 percent of its I.T. work.
 Lockheed has taken over the job of making data flow throughout the government, from the F.B.I.'s long-dysfunctional computer networks to the Department of Health and Human Services system for tracking child support. The company just won a $525 million contract to fix the Social Security Administration's information systems. It has an $87 million contract to make computers communicate and secrets stream throughout the Department of Homeland Security. On top of all that, the company is helping to rebuild the United States Coast Guard -- a $17 billion program -- and to supply, under the Patriot Act, biometric identity cards for six million Americans who work in transportation.
 Lockheed is also the strongest corporate force driving the Pentagon's plans for ''net-centric warfare'': the big idea of fusing military, intelligence and weapons programs through a new military Internet, called the Global Information Grid, to give American soldiers throughout the world an instant picture of the battlefield around them. ''We want to know what's going on anytime, anyplace on the planet,'' said Lorraine M. Martin, vice president and deputy of the company's Joint Command, Control and Communications Systems division. 
 Lockheed's global reach is also growing. Its ''critical mass'' of salesmanship lets it ''produce global products for a global marketplace,'' said Robert H. Trice Jr., the senior vice president for corporate business development. With its dominant position in fighter jets, missiles, rockets and other weapons, Lockheed's technology will drive the security spending for many American allies in coming decades. Lockheed now sells aircraft and weapons to more than 40 countries. The American taxpayer is financing many of those sales. For example, Israel spends much of the $1.8 billion in annual military aid from the United States to buy F-16 warplanes from Lockheed.
 Twenty-four nations are flying the F-16, or will be soon. Lockheed's factory in Fort Worth is building 10 for Chile. Oman will receive a dozen next year. Poland will get 48 in 2006; the United States Treasury will cover the cost through a $3.8 billion loan.
 In the future, Lockheed hopes to build and sell hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of the next generation of warplanes, the F-35, to the United States Army, Navy and Air Force, and to dozens of United States allies. Three years ago, Lockheed won the competition to be the prime contractor for this aircraft, known as the Joint Strike Fighter. 
 The program was valued at $200 billion, the biggest Pentagon project in history, but it may be worth more. The F-35 is in its first stages of development in Fort Worth; its onboard computers will require 3.5 million lines of code. Each of the American military services wants a different version of the jet.
 There have been glitches involving the weight of the craft. ''We did not get it right the first time,'' said Tom Burbage, a Lockheed executive vice president working on the program. But a day will come, he said, ''when everybody's flying the F-35.'' Lockheed hopes to sell 4,000 or 5,000 of the planes, with roughly half the sales to foreign nations, including those that bought the F-16.
 ''It's a terrific opportunity for us,'' said Bob Elrod, a senior Lockheed manager for the F-35 program. ''It could be a tremendous success, at the level of the F-16 -- 4,000-plus and growing.'' That would represent ''world domination'' for Lockheed, he said.
 In the United States, where national security spending now surpasses $500 billion a year, Lockheed's dominance is growing. Its own executives say the concentration of power among military contractors is more intense than in any other sector of business outside banking. Three or four major companies -- Lockheed, General Dynamics, Northrop Grumman and arguably Boeing -- rule the industry. They often work like general contractors building customized houses, farming out the painting, the floors and the cabinets to smaller subcontractors and taking their own share of the money.
 AND, after 9/11, cost is hardly the most important variable for Pentagon planners. Lockheed has now won approval to build as many F-22's as possible. The current price, $258 million apiece, easily makes the F-22 the most expensive fighter jet in history. 
 Mr. Stevens, whose compensation last year as Lockheed's chief operating officer was more than $9.5 million, says cost is essentially irrelevant when national security is at stake. ''Some folks might think, well, here's a fighter that costs a lot,'' he said. ''This is not a business where in the purest economical sense there's a broad market of supply and demand and price and value can be determined in that exchange. It's more challenging to define its value.''
 Lockheed says it has transformed its corporate culture. In the 1970's, it was discovered that the company had paid millions of dollars to foreign officials around the world in order to sell its planes. In one case, Kakuei Tanaka, who had been the prime minister of Japan, was convicted of accepting bribes. 
 ''Without Lockheed, there never would have been a Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,'' said Jerome Levinson, who was the staff director of the Senate subcommittee that uncovered the bribery. 
 The antibribery provisions of that law, passed in 1977, owed their existence to the Lockheed investigation, he said. The last bribery case involving Lockheed came a decade ago, when a Lockheed executive and the corporation admitted paying $1.2 million in bribes to an Egyptian official to seal the sales of three Lockheed C-130 cargo planes. 
 Mr. Trice, Lockheed's senior vice president for business development, says the company cleaned up its act at home and overseas since the last of the series of major mergers and acquisitions that gave the corporation its present shape in March 1995. ''You simply have to look people in the eye and say 'we don't do business that way,''' he said.
 There really is no need to do business that way any more -- not in a world where so much of Lockheed's wealth flows directly from the Treasury, where competition for foreign markets is both controlled and subsidized by the White House and Congress, and where Lockheed's influence runs so deep. Men who have worked, lobbied and lawyered for Lockheed hold the posts of secretary of the Navy, secretary of transportation, director of the national nuclear weapons complex and director of the national spy satellite agency. The list also includes Stephen J. Hadley, who has been named the next national security adviser to the president, succeeding Condoleezza Rice.
 Former Lockheed executives serve on the Defense Policy Board, the Defense Science Board and the Homeland Security Advisory Council, which help make military and intelligence policy and pick weapons for future battles. Lockheed's board includes E.C. Aldridge Jr., who, as the Pentagon's chief weapons buyer, gave the go-ahead to build the F-22.
 None of those posts and positions violate the Pentagon's rules about the ''revolving door'' between industry and government. Lockheed has stayed clear of the kind of conflict-of-interest cases that have afflicted its competitor, Boeing, and the Air Force in recent months.
 ''We need to be politically aware and astute,'' Mr. Stevens said. ''We work with the Congress. We work with the executive branch.'' In these dialogues, he said, Lockheed's end of the conversation is ''saying we think this is feasible, we think this is possible, we think we might have invented a new approach.''
 Lockheed makes about $1 million a year in campaign contributions through political action committees, singling out members of the Congressional committees controlling the Pentagon's budget, and spends many millions more on lobbying. Political stalwarts who have lobbied for Lockheed at one point or another include Haley Barbour, the governor of Mississippi and a former Republican national chairman; Otto Reich, who persuaded Congress to sell F-16's to Chile before becoming President Bush's main Latin America policy aide in 2002; and Norman Y. Mineta, the transportation secretary and former member of Congress.
 Its connections give Lockheed a ''tremendous opportunity to influence contracts flowing to the company,'' said Ms. Brian of the Project on Government Oversight. ''More subtly valuable is the ability of the company to benefit from their eyes and ears inside the government, to know what's on the horizon, what are the best bets for the government's future technology needs.''
 SO who serves as the overseer for the biggest military contractors and their costly weapons? Usually, the customer itself: the Pentagon.
 ''These programs are huge,'' said Dov S. Zakheim, the Pentagon's comptroller and chief financial officer for the last three years, who recently joined Booz Allen Hamilton, the consulting firm. ''There is a historical tendency to underestimate their test schedules, their technological hurdles, the likely weight of an airplane and, as a result, to underestimate costs.
 ''Because you have so few contractors, you don't get the level of attention that the average citizen would think would be devoted to a program costing billions of dollars,'' he said. ''With this massive agglomeration into a very small number of companies, you get far less visibility as to whether the subcontractors are effectively managed. Problems accumulate.''
 ''Twenty years ago, the complaint was, it takes so long to build things,'' he said. Weapons designed in the depths of the cold war were built long after the Berlin Wall crumbled. That led some people, including George W. Bush while running for president in 1999, to suggest that the Pentagon skip a generation of weapons set to roll off the assembly line in this decade and concentrate instead on lighter, faster, smarter systems for the future.
 That didn't happen. It still takes two decades to build a major weapons system, and the costs are still staggering.
 ''The complaints haven't changed 20 years later,'' Mr. Zakheim said. The difference between then and now is the concentration of expertise, experience and power in a few hands, he said, ''and I don't think the effect has necessarily been a good one.''
 Mr. Stevens rejected that criticism. ''I can't tell you the number of times I've heard 'not progressive, not sophisticated, ponderous, slow''' as terms used to describe Lockheed, he said. ''I see none of that.''
 What he sees is a far grander vision. Lockheed, he said, is promising to transform the very nature of war. During the cold war, when Lockheed and its component parts built an empire of nuclear weapons, Mr. Stevens said, the watchword was: ''Be more fearful. 'Deterrence,' isn't that Latin? 'Deterrere.' Induce fear. Terrorize.''
 Today, Lockheed is building weapons so smart that they can change the world by virtue of their precision, he said; they aim to wage war without the death of innocents, without weapons misfiring, without fatal miscalculation.
 ''I know the fog of war exists,'' Mr. Stevens said, adding that it could be lifted. ''We envision a world where you don't have any more fratricide,'' no more friendly fire, he said. ''With technology we've been able to make ourselves more secure and more humane.
 ''And we aren't there yet -- but we sure have pioneered the kind of work that is taking us well along that trajectory. And there's a lot of evidence that says we're doing well. And we're setting the bar high and we expect to be able to do that. Now that's pretty exciting stuff.
 ''I don't say this lightly,'' he said. ''Our industry has contributed to a change in humankind.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A command and control system by Lockheed Martin for air warfare. The company receives 80 percent of its revenue from government contracts, and some former officials hold posts at the White House or Pentagon. (Photo by Lockheed Martin Corporation)(pg. 1)
Robert J. Stevens, the chief executive of Lockheed, says, ''This is not a business where in the purest economical sense there's a broad market of supply and demand.'' (Photo by Marty Katz for The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Lockheed Martin Corporation)(pg. 4)Chart: ''A Soup-to-Nuts Government Contractor''As warfare systems grow ever more sophisticated, Lockheed Martin, the world's largest military contractor, has emerged as one of the nation's leading information-technology companies. Its expertise is being tapped not only by the Pentagon, but also by other agencies like the Postal Service and the Transportation Security Administration.A series of mergers and acquisitions . . .Graph shows mergers and acquisitions of the following companies from 1980 to 2003:General Dynamics - Fort WorthSandersGould Ocean SystemsGeneral Electric AerospaceGeneral Dynamics Space SystemsRCALoralMartin MariettaLockheedGoodyear AerospaceFairchild WestonHoneywell EOFord AerospaceLibrascopeLTV MissilesIBM Federal SystemsUnisys DefenseXerox Electro-Optical SystemsACS Government ServicesOAO. . . has created a diverse government contractor2003 net sales in billionsTotal: $31.8Aeronautics $10.2Electronic systems $9.0Space systems $6.0Information and technology services $3.2Integrated systems and solutions $3.4(Drawing Karl Russell/The New York Times)(Source by Lockheed Martin)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (92%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (79%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); SPACECRAFT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ARMS TRADE (75%); ESPIONAGE (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (71%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (67%); ACQUISITIONS (63%) United States Armament and Defense; Defense Contracts; Company and Organization Profiles; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (97%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); BOEING CO (56%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (50%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%) Lockheed Martin Corp

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (97%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); GD (NYSE) (50%); NOC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (50%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (50%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (50%)

PERSON: ROBERT J STEVENS (79%) Tim Weiner; Robert J Stevens

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



620 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Eyeball to Eyeball

BYLINE: By Ben Macintyre

 BODY:

HIGH NOON IN THE COLD WAR
Kennedy, Khrushchev, and
the Cuban Missile Crisis.
By Max Frankel.
Illustrated. 206 pp. Presidio Press/
Ballantine Books. $23.95.

ENGAGING INDIA
Diplomacy, Democracy, and
the Bomb.
By Strobe Talbott.
268 pp. Brookings Institution Press. $27.95.
 ''THE bomb brought peace, but man alone can keep that peace,'' Winston Churchill observed in August 1945. The bomb has been threatening to start a new war ever since, from Cuba to Kashmir to North Korea. The fear of a mushroom cloud over the Middle East underpinned the justification for war in Iraq. And yet the nuclear peace has been kept, just. Quite why this should be is the subtext of two books exploring two of the most alarming moments in the long, nerve-shredding saga of nuclear confrontation: one in October 1962, when America discovered the Soviet plan to use Cuba as a strategic missile base, and the other in 1998, when India barged into the nuclear club without an invitation. 
 For all their many differences, the books arrive at provocatively similar conclusions: prevention of nuclear war depends on dialogue and perseverance. Max Frankel's take on the Cuban missile crisis is fast-paced, pithy and personal. Perhaps most remarkably, given how well tilled this territory has become, it also offers fresh insight. Frankel, a former executive editor of The New York Times, argues that while the confrontation could hardly have been more tense, or the stakes higher, the danger of an all-out nuclear war was less acute than the subsequent plethora of memoirs, histories and films would have us believe. Both Nikita Khrushchev and John F. Kennedy, he argues, were guided by a shared and obviously unstated determination to avoid war. Given this thesis, the title of Frankel's book seems a little odd, for by his account 1962 was not so much High Noon as about ten minutes of: ''Driven by fear of the inhuman power they had to share,'' he writes, ''they found, if only for a moment, a shared humanity and yen to survive.''
 A reporter in The Times's Washington bureau during the crisis, Frankel had a ringside seat, and he brings out the intensely personal nature of the confrontation between two men who found themselves squaring off through a combination of domestic pressure and profound mutual miscalculation. Kennedy believed that Khrushchev would never have the gall to deploy nuclear weapons in Cuba; Khrushchev believed the American president would huff and puff but eventually acquiesce. Khrushchev was eager to demonstrate, as dramatically as possible, Soviet superpower status; Kennedy could not afford to appear irresolute. As Frankel notes sagely: ''For the roots of crises, look to powerful men feeling vulnerable and underestimated. Their dread of weakness, even imagined frailty, begets belligerence.'' For all that the cold war was a clash of ideologies and cultures, at this, its most frigid moment, the conflict came down to two wily, pragmatic politicians locked in an intensely personal struggle. ''He can't do that to me,'' Kennedy insisted. Indeed, he could not, and in the end these ''responsible and highly intelligent men'' walked away from a fight neither wanted.
 Fully a generation later, two other intelligent and responsible men found themselves on opposing sides of a bitter nuclear argument; once again the United States came toe to toe with a nation determined to assert its global self-image through nuclear weapons; and once again, trouble was talked away.
 For most of the last half-century, American-Indian relations have seemed ''jinxed,'' to use Strobe Talbott's word; mutual suspicion exacerbated by the fact that ''each was on such good terms with the other's principal enemy,'' with Pakistan allied to the United States and India leaning toward the Soviet Union. When India tested three nuclear weapons under its northwestern desert on May 11, 1998, and when Pakistan responded with its own nuclear test, the world may well have been closer to nuclear war than at any time since 1962. A journalist with Time magazine who became deputy secretary of state under Bill Clinton and now presides over the Brookings Institution, Talbott describes the frenetic diplomatic tussle that ensued, with himself and Jaswant Singh, the urbane and opaque Indian foreign minister, as the principal performers.
 The Indian tests undermined the stability of the global nuclear order. Clinton was incandescent: ''We're going to come down on those guys like a ton of bricks.'' He was exaggerating, for the instrument he chose to use on the Indians, the supple Talbott, was made rather of some form of high-tensile but flexible material, measured not in tons, but in drops. With exquisite manners, Talbott and Singh patiently circled and probed each other during 14 rounds of face-to-face talks at 10 locations in seven countries over two and a half years.
 India demanded to be paid respectful attention as a nuclear power; America wanted to bind India into a posture of ''strategic restraint'' and, if possible, make it sign the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. ''Somehow we had to persuade India, as the larger, politically more stable, economically more dynamic of the two countries, to set a positive example for Pakistan by putting the brakes on its acquisition of nuclear weaponry,'' Talbott writes, and beneath the relentless good humor, one can sense Talbott's frustration at his smooth Indian interlocutor, with his ''predilections for double negatives that did not quite add up to positives.''
 Neither side got quite what it wanted. The Republican Senate's refusal to ratify the test-ban treaty undercut negotiations, and Talbott frankly admits that ''Singh came closer to achieving his objective in the dialogue than I did to achieving mine.'' Yet the long diplomatic dance may have produced something more durable, a genuine dialogue in which the parties listened, as well as talked. Little more than a year after Singh and Talbott first sat down, Clinton was able to play a key role in defusing a conflict between India and Pakistan that seemed headed for nuclear war. The American-Indian rapprochement lasted, and the border in Kashmir was quiescent.
 The Indian negotiations have little of the drama of the Cuban crisis. The 1962 events appear, from a distance, almost amateurish in their melodrama: Soviet generals discussing whether missiles could be hidden behind Cuban palm trees, and White House conversations that seem to go in circles. By comparison, the Talbott-Singh pas de deux is all gliding nuance and professional calculation. Yet in the end, both sagas came down to two men from opposing worlds, trying to see inside each other's heads.
 Another Churchillian dictum holds true here: ''To jaw-jaw is always better than to war-war.'' But that presupposes someone to talk to. Today practically any individual could rustle up a nuclear warhead with enough enriched uranium or plutonium, a modicum of physics and an Internet connection. Some 32 countries are believed to have at least some fissile material. It would be comforting to think that jawing will continue to prove effective in the new nuclear age. Comforting, and wrong.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Max Frankel. (Photograph by Bill Cunningham/The New York Times)
 Strobe Talbott. (Photograph by Day Walters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LITERATURE (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%) Books and Literature; MacIntyre, Ben; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (58%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%) Max Frankel; Strobe Talbott

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (79%) INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (93%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



621 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1868 words

HEADLINE: The Great Indecency Hoax

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
OH, the poor, suffering little children. 
 If we are to believe the outcry of the past two weeks, America's youth have been defiled en masse -- again. This time the dirty deed was done by the actress Nicollette Sheridan, who dropped her towel in the cheesy promotional spot for the runaway hit ''Desperate Housewives'' that kicked off ''Monday Night Football'' on ABC. ''I wonder if Walt Disney would be proud,'' said Michael Powell, the Federal Communications Commission chairman who increasingly fashions himself a commissar of all things cultural, from nipple rings to ''Son of Flubber.''
 It's beginning to look a lot like ''Groundhog Day.'' Ever since 22 percent of the country's voters said on Nov. 2 that they cared most about ''moral values,'' opportunistic ayatollahs on the right have been working overtime to inflate this nonmandate into a landslide by ginning up cultural controversies that might induce censorship by a compliant F.C.C. and, failing that, self-censorship by TV networks. Seizing on a single overhyped poll result, they exaggerate their clout, hoping to grab power over the culture. 
 The mainstream press, itself in love with the ''moral values'' story line and traumatized by the visual exaggerations of the red-blue map, is too cowed to challenge the likes of the American Family Association. So are politicians of both parties. It took a British publication, The Economist, to point out that the percentage of American voters citing moral and ethical values as their prime concern is actually down from 2000 (35 percent) and 1996 (40 percent).
 To see how the hucksters of the right work their scam, there could be no more illustrative example than the ''Monday Night Football'' episode in which Ms. Sheridan leaped into the arms of the Philadelphia Eagles wide receiver Terrell Owens in order to give the declining weekly game (viewership is down 3 percent from 2003) a shot of Viagra. From the get-go, it was a manufactured scandal, as over-the-top as a dinner theater production of ''The Crucible.'' 
 Rush Limbaugh, taking a break from the legal deliberations of his drug rap and third divorce, set the hysterical tone. ''I was stunned!'' he told his listeners. ''I literally could not believe what I had seen. At various places on the Net you can see the video of this, and she's buck naked, folks. I mean when they dropped the towel she's naked. You see enough of her back and rear end to know that she was naked. There's no frontal nudity in the thing, but I mean you don't need that. I mean, there are some guys with their kids that sit down to watch 'Monday Night Football.''' 
 Yes, there are -- some, anyway -- but you wonder how many of them were as upset as Mr. Limbaugh, whose imagination led him to mistake a lower back for a rear end. (He also said that the Sheridan-Owens encounter reminded him of the Kobe Bryant case; let's not even go there.) The evidence suggests that Mr. Limbaugh's prurient mind is the exception, not the rule. Though seen nationwide, and as early as 6 p.m. on the West Coast, the spot initially caused so little stir that the next morning only two newspapers in the country, both in Philadelphia, reported on it. ABC's switchboards were not swamped by shocked viewers on Monday night. A spokesman for ABC Sports told The Philadelphia Inquirer that he hadn't received a single phone call or e-mail in the immediate aftermath of the broadcast.
 Even the stunned Mr. Limbaugh, curiously enough, didn't get around to mounting his own diatribe until Wednesday. Mr. Owens's agent, David Joseph, says that the flood of complaints at his office and Mr. Owens's Web site also didn't start until more than 24 hours after the incident -- late Tuesday and early Wednesday. Were any of these complainants actual victims (or even viewers) of ''Monday Night Football'' or were they just a mob assembled after the fact by ''family'' groups, emboldened by their triumph in smiting ''Saving Private Ryan'' from 66 ABC stations the week before? Though the F.C.C. said on Wednesday that it had received 50,000 complaints about the N.F.L. affair, it couldn't determine how many of them were duplicates -- the kind generated by e-mail campaigns run by political organizations posting form letters ready to be clicked into cyberspace ad infinitum by anyone who has an index finger and two seconds of idle time. 
 Like the Janet Jackson video before it, the new N.F.L. sex tape was now being rebroadcast around the clock so we could revel incessantly in the shock of it all. ''People were so outraged they had to see it 10 times,'' joked Aaron Brown of CNN, which was no slacker in filling that need in the marketplace. And yet when I spoke to an F.C.C. enforcement spokesman after more than two days of such replays, the agency had not yet received a single complaint about the spot's constant recycling on other TV shows, among them the highly rated talk show ''The View,'' where Ms. Sheridan's bare back had been merrily paraded at the child-friendly hour of 11 a.m.
 The hypocrisy embedded in this tale is becoming a national running gag. As in the Super Bowl brouhaha, in which the N.F.L. maintained it had no idea that MTV might produce a racy halftime show, the league has denied any prior inkling of the salaciousness on tap this time -- even though the spot featured the actress playing the sluttiest character in prime time's most libidinous series and was shot with the full permission of one of the league's teams in its own locker room. Again as in the Jackson case, we are also asked to believe that pro football is what Pat Buchanan calls ''the family entertainment, the family sports show'' rather than what it actually is: a Boschian jamboree of bumping-and-grinding cheerleaders, erectile-dysfunction pageantry and, as Don Imus puts it, ''wife-beating drug addicts slamming the hell out of each other'' on the field.
 But there's another, more insidious game being played as well. The F.C.C. and the family values crusaders alike are cooking their numbers. The first empirical evidence was provided this month by Jeff Jarvis, a former TV Guide critic turned blogger. He had the ingenious idea of filing a Freedom of Information Act request to see the actual viewer complaints that drove the F.C.C. to threaten Fox and its affiliates with the largest indecency fine to date -- $1.2 million for the sins of a now-defunct reality program called ''Married by America.'' Though the F.C.C. had cited 159 public complaints in its legal case against Fox, the documents obtained by Mr. Jarvis showed that there were actually only 90 complaints, written by 23 individuals. Of those 23, all but 2 were identical repetitions of a form letter posted by the Parents Television Council. In other words, the total of actual, discrete complaints about ''Married by America'' was 3.
 Such letter-writing factories as the American Family Association's OneMillionMoms.com also exaggerate their clout in intimidating advertisers. They brag, for instance, that the retail chain Lowe's dropped its commercials on ''Desperate Housewives'' in response to their protests. But Lowe's was not an advertiser on the show; the advertiser who actually bought the commercial was Whirlpool, which plugged Lowe's as a retail outlet for its products under a co-branding arrangement. Another advertiser that the family-values mafia takes credit for chasing away, Tyson Foods, had only bought in for one episode of ''Desperate Housewives'' in the first place. It had long since been replaced by such Fortune 500 advertisers as Ford and McDonald's, each clamoring to pay three times as much for a 30-second spot ($450,000) as those early advertisers who bought time before the show had its debut and became an instant smash. 
 But perhaps the most revealing barometer of the real state of play in American culture in 2004 is ''Desperate Housewives'' itself. Conceived by Marc Cherry, who is described by Newsweek as a ''somewhat conservative, gay Republican,'' it is a campy, well-made soap opera presenting suburban American family life as a fugue of dysfunction, malice and sex. It's not for nothing that its characters are seen running off to Alfred Hitchcock and Billy Wilder retrospectives or that some of the episodes are named after Stephen Sondheim songs like ''Who's That Woman?'' and ''Pretty Little Picture.'' 
 The children of Mr. Cherry's Wisteria Lane can be as poisonous as that small-town brat in Hitchcock's ''Shadow of a Doubt'': one preadolescent girl is an extortionist and one teenage daughter all but pimps for her divorced mother. The career-driven husbands are as soulless as the office rats of Wilder's ''Apartment,'' and their wives are, yes, as desperate as those in the Manhattan high-rises of Sondheim's ''Company.'' Whatever else is to be said about ''Desperate Housewives'' -- and I haven't missed an episode -- it is not to be confused with the kind of entertainment that the Traditional Values Coalition wants to impose on the airwaves. It not only emulates HBO Sunday night hits like ''Sex and the City'' and ''Six Feet Under'' in its cheeky, sardonic tone but brushes right up against them in language and action. 
 In one recent show the most oversexed character on screen, a 17-year-old jock having an affair with a married woman, is revealed to be a member of his high school's ''abstinence club.'' (Surely it was a coincidence that this revelation butted right up against a commercial for Ortho Tri-Cyclen, a prescription contraceptive.) In another, a wife collapsing under the burden of stay-at-home motherhood slugs her spouse when he contemplates not using a condom. Then there was the dinner party where another of the wives tries to humiliate her husband by telling the assembled that he ''cries after he ejaculates.''
 ''Desperate Housewives'' is hardly a blue-state phenomenon. A hit everywhere, it is even a bigger hit in Oklahoma City than it is in Los Angeles, bigger in Kansas City than it is in New York. All those public moralists who wail about all the kids watching Ms. Sheridan on ''Monday Night Football'' would probably have apoplexy if they actually watched what Ms. Sheridan was up to in her own series -- and then looked closely at its Nielsen numbers. Though children ages 2 to 11 make up a small percentage of the audience of either show, there are actually more in that age group tuning into Mr. Cherry's marital brawls (870,000) than into the N.F.L.'s fisticuffs (540,000). ''Desperate Housewives'' also ranks No. 5 among all prime-time shows for ages 12-17. (''Monday Night Football'' is No. 18.) This may explain in part why its current advertisers include products like Fisher-Price toys, the DVD of ''Elf'' and the forthcoming Tim Allen holiday vehicle, ''Christmas With the Kranks.''
 Those who cherish the First Amendment can only hope that the Traditional Values Coalition, OneMillionMoms.com, OneMillionDads .com and all the rest send every e-mail they can to the F.C.C. demanding punitive action against the stations that broadcast ''Desperate Housewives.'' A ''moral values'' crusade that stands between a TV show this popular and its audience will quickly learn the limits of its power in a country where entertainment is god.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Terrell Owens and Nicollette Sheridan on ''Monday Night Football.'' (Photo by ABC)(pg. 17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSORSHIP (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); FAMILY (78%); SCANDALS (77%); NETWORK TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); POLITICS (73%); ETHICS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); THEATER COMPANIES (72%); THEATER (72%); ATHLETES (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%) Television; Pornography and Obscenity; Public Opinion

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%); AMERICAN FAMILY ASSOCIATION (54%) Federal Communications Commission

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (57%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%)

PERSON: NICOLLETTE SHERIDAN (77%); FRANK RICH (54%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%) Frank Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (67%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



622 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2841 words

HEADLINE: The Making of a Wise Man

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
STEPHEN A. SCHWARZMAN was standing backstage at the Kennedy Center in Washington last month, perusing the speech he would give in honor of Lorne Michaels, the creator of ''Saturday Night Live.'' It had been a giddy night for Mr. Schwarzman, the Wall Street financier and the recently appointed chairman of the center. He had spent the evening sharing chuckles with Dan Aykroyd, Steve Martin and Senator John McCain, and was about to offer his closing remarks. 
 ''And now, live from Washington, D.C., please welcome Lorne Michaels!'' he shouted as he took center stage. 
 For Mr. Schwarzman, the evening represented a high-water mark of what appears to be a campaign to rise above his status as just another fabulously rich deal maker and to achieve renown on the larger, more alluring public stage of the arts -- and Washington politics. 
 Since the early 1970's, he has moved with ferocity and guile in the jungles of Wall Street, staying largely unknown to the wider world. He rose to the top of his class at Lehman Brothers before breaking off, in 1985, to be a co-founder of the Blackstone Group, a hugely successful boutique investment house. 
 His net worth approaches $1 billion, and he has accumulated the totems that such wealth bestows: a $30 million Manhattan co-op; an estate in East Hampton; a mansion in Palm Beach; a hideaway in the south of France; and the use of a corporate jet and a Sikorsky S-76 helicopter. 
 He has also become a patron of the arts, joining all the right charity boards, including those of the New York Public Library and the New York City Ballet, and donating generously to a wide variety of New York philanthropies.
 But unlike many bankers who are happy with having a few charity boards to enhance their public profiles and smooth the sharper edges of their riches, Mr. Schwarzman has kept striving for more. An avid supporter of President Bush (they lived in the same dormitory at Yale), he has distinguished himself from others on Wall Street by giving thousands of dollars to the Republican Party at the state level, in swing states like Wisconsin, Ohio and Minnesota. 
 Such double-barreled munificence has led to his name appearing in New York's gossip columns, and speculation has built in some quarters that he may even be a candidate for Treasury secretary -- a job he is said to covet. 
 Republicans who have been briefed on the administration's plans say that John W. Snow, the current Treasury secretary, is expected to remain in office for as much as a year. They say, too, that Mr. Schwarzman has not appeared on any prospective short list for the job. 
 But that does not mean that Mr. Schwarzman, a career deal maker who has made no public speeches on any aspect of fiscal policy, cannot aspire to it. 
 He cites as role models two former Yale graduates, often called the Wise Men, who mixed successful business careers with government service: Cyrus R. Vance, who was a corporate lawyer before serving as secretary of state, and W. Averell Harriman, who left Wall Street to become a trusted adviser to presidents from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Lyndon B. Johnson.
 ''I just want to give something back,'' Mr. Schwarzman said, as he tucked into a bowl of cereal in the sun-splashed breakfast parlor of his 24-room duplex at 740 Park Avenue, at 71st Street. ''To the extent that I can add value and make my country a better place, that's a good thing to do.'' 
 THAT Steve Schwarzman, who is 57, wants to be a Wise Man -- and could even end up becoming one -- should not be surprising. 
 Wall Street has a long history of titans forgoing the blunt power of their capital for the prospect of a purer form of influence in and around the White House. And the legend that Robert E. Rubin created for himself by abandoning a Goldman Sachs partnership to counsel President Bill Clinton on economic matters has made the lure of Washington all the more intoxicating. 
 But this ripening desire also reveals the extent to which the rigid class strictures that once applied to Wall Street and New York society have softened. Much has changed since men like Mr. Harriman and Mr. Vance left for Washington. Then, to be tapped by a president for a high-level post was more than a professional honor. In many ways, it was the final reward for a life spent going to the right schools and belonging to the right clubs -- a modern form of the old honors curriculum in Rome, where rising officials were obligated to hold a series of offices before finally reaching the highest professional rung.
 ''The old honors curriculum used to consist of a frightful boarding school, an Ivy League education, time spent at war and success at a major investment bank or law firm,'' said Nelson W. Aldrich Jr., the author of ''Old Money.'' ''Only then would you be tapped. Now what matters is that you make a pile and start giving a lot of it away. In many ways, this new curriculum has replaced the old class system.'' 
 A product of the meritocratic boom that hit Wall Street in the 1960's, Mr. Schwarzman -- who attended public school in a suburb of Philadelphia and whose father ran a dry-goods store -- skipped many stages of the curriculum. He got into Yale on his intelligence alone and used the Ivy League degree and a stopover at Harvard Business School to start a career on Wall Street. 
 With success came wealth, and with wealth came patronage and the gradual efflorescence of his public image -- a purposeful metamorphosis that in some respects could happen only in New York City.
 ''There is no real class structure in New York anymore, just relative degrees of publicity,'' said Michael M. Thomas, a former partner at Lehman Brothers and an author of novels about class and money on Wall Street. ''Some people find that a more acceptable form of class system because it is easier to manipulate.''
 Mr. Schwarzman dates his interest in public service to a three-hour lunch he had with the 78-year-old Mr. Harriman, also a Yale graduate, in 1969 at Mr. Harriman's town house opposite the Metropolitan Museum of Art. ''I wrote him a letter and told him I was interested in the public world,'' Mr. Schwarzman recalled. ''He asked me to lunch, so I went out and bought my first suit and we had lunch on trays in his living room.'' 
 Mr. Schwarzman, then a Yale student, still remembers the small details: the man in the white coat opening the door, the bust of Robert F. Kennedy on the mantle, the calls from Mr. Vance updating Mr. Harriman on the peace talks with North Vietnam, and not least of all the Impressionist paintings on the wall. ''I thought -- 'jeez, this is remarkable,''' he said. ''And, 'wouldn't it be wonderful if I could have some elements of this in my life when I grow up?''' 
 SO he went off to seek his own fortune -- the vast bulk of which has come to him since he has served as president of Blackstone. People on Wall Street familiar with Blackstone's business guess that Mr. Schwarzman will take home $75 million to $100 million this year. It is an extraordinary figure, even by Wall Street's bloated standards, and it could well surpass the compensation packages of the chief executives of Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch combined. 
 When investment bankers and top executives speak of Blackstone and Mr. Schwarzman, they do so with a hush of respect, if not a small degree of awe. That is partly because Blackstone, with its $27 billion worth of private equity funds and its propensity to cash in its stakes quickly, can sprinkle more than $700 million in fees across Wall Street in a year. 
 But for executives whose wealth is largely tied up in the stock of their companies, there is also a sense of wonder at the efficiency of the Blackstone money-making machine. Not only do the top partners at the firm divvy up hundreds of millions of management fees each year, they also take personal stakes in the wide variety of companies that the firm buys. When the stakes are sold -- as a few were this year -- Mr. Schwarzman and his partners often take home additional chunks of cash. 
 Despite his growing public obligations, Mr. Schwarzman has kept a steely grip on activities at Blackstone, signing off on all the major deals. Like many other deal makers, he can be impatient and blunt when talking to those around him, no matter if they are colleagues or kitchen staff. 
 During one interview at his home, he was interrupted by a phone call from a top banker at his office who asked him to weigh in on a deal in the making. ''It's a very marginal return,'' he said with distaste as he quizzed the executive on the investment's finer points. ''I like things with upside. That's how you make money.'' And when his white-coated houseman did not respond to his frequent buzzings for more coffee, Mr. Schwarzman ran off to find him: ''I called you six times,'' he said, confronting the man in the kitchen. He also has a quirky side, and will call his banking friends to sing ''Happy Birthday'' to them.
 For a banker of Mr. Schwarzman's stature and means, becoming a patron of the arts has been fairly straightforward. The role models are many; among the most prominent have been Sanford I. Weill, the chairman of Citigroup and an energetic benefactor of institutions like Carnegie Hall, and Henry Kravis of the buyout firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (which competes with Blackstone), who has achieved his own eclat through his good works at the New York Public Library and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. 
 Mr. Schwarzman approaches his socializing with the same determined vigor and attention to detail that has characterized his style as a banker and investor over the last 30 years. In some ways, it has the feel of a political campaign, and his grinning visage has become a regular feature on NYSocialDiary.com, a Web site that chronicles the social and charitable activities of New York's upper class.
 With his wife, Christine, Mr. Schwarzman has appeared at events small and large: from a book party he gave this spring for Princess Michael of Kent, to a benefit in October for the charity Casita Maria -- his wife and Prince Dimitri of Yugoslavia were two of the leaders of the dinner -- and, earlier this month, the Library Lions ball for the New York Public Library.
 One evening this fall, before the tribute in Washington, he had a cocktail reception at his apartment for Mr. Michaels. The apartment, which once belonged to John D. Rockefeller Jr. and more recently to Saul Steinberg, the 1980's corporate raider, is lavishly appointed and has 13 bathrooms. It even bears some of the touches that widened the eyes of the young Mr. Schwarzman when he sat in Mr. Harriman's living room back in 1969. 
 Paintings by Monet hang throughout the apartment, and one of Cy Twombly's celebrated blackboard works dominates a wall in the living room. Instead of a Kennedy bust, a large silver-framed photograph -- bearing the presidential seal -- showing Mr. Schwarzman and President Bush arm in arm and grinning broadly, is displayed on an antique writing table in the living room. 
 On that night, Mr. Schwarzman planted himself near the apartment entrance and received the swirl of Manhattan socialites that the elevators disgorged directly into the foyer. A bit hunched in appearance, with an ever-present smile that can veer from impish to smug, Mr. Schwarzman anchored the teeming throng. Caroline Kennedy dropped by, as did Ahmet Ertegun, the record producer, and a passel of lesser-known habitues of the Upper East Side's cafe society. Shaking hands, throwing air kisses, slapping backs, Mr. Schwarzman did not desert his post until his last guest had left. 
 The thrill of it all continued the next day. Paula Zahn! Mike Nichols! ''And did you see Lesley Stahl?'' he asked, with the enthusiasm of a teenage boy recalling a chance meeting with his baseball heroes. ''Mike Bloomberg was also there -- he came early.'' 
 It was almost as if Mr. Schwarzman were pinching himself: the parties, the art, the celebrities -- yes, he had finally arrived. And his friends and peers agreed. ''If you have all that money and all those pretty houses, I think you have made it socially,'' said Richard Jenrette, a founder of Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette, the investment bank where Mr. Schwarzman started his Wall Street career. 
 Even the mayor, a former partner at Salomon Brothers who in many ways perfected the model of using Wall Street money to get a leg up in New York society, is impressed. ''This guy has spent a lot of time in business making money, and he leads the good life, too,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''He goes to one dinner a night and I go to five. I think it's great that he is reaching out. Successful people have an obligation to give back.''
 Making it in New York is one thing; in Washington, however, it can take an extra bit of work. That is why Mr. Schwarzman has sought the wisdom of a local insider there, Kenneth M. Duberstein, a former chief of staff for Ronald Reagan who now runs a well-connected lobbying firm.
 It was Mr. Duberstein, then the acting chairman of the Kennedy Center, who recommended that the search committee break a deadlock by considering Mr. Schwarzman for the chairmanship, then strongly advised him to take the position.
 While the job may not set the blood racing for veterans of the New York charity circuit, it is considered a plum for those seeking to assume a more forceful presence in Washington. Past chairmen have included James D. Wolfensohn, a former investment banker based in New York who leapt from the Kennedy Center to his current position as president of the World Bank, and James A. Johnson, the preceding chairman, who many felt would have been either chief of staff or Treasury secretary had Senator John Kerry won the presidential election.
 And don't forget: the job also requires the approval of the president. 
 ''I thought this would be a good stage for him,'' Mr. Duberstein said. ''It gives him New York and D.C. at a high level of involvement in not only the arts but the politics of an administration and Capitol Hill.''
 To celebrate his appointment, Mr. Schwarzman and his wife were given a private lunch with Laura Bush this year in the upstairs residence of the White House. It was his first visit to the White House, and he still revels in the moment -- from the guided tour of the quarters to the cake -- in the shape of a Kennedy Center stage and bearing his name -- that was sprung on him by the first lady.
 ''It was two feet by a foot and a half,'' he said, using his hands to describe the pastry, as if it were a trout hauled in from a stream. ''There was a black chocolate background, with the stage done in sorbet, the orchestra in peaches and the audience individual raspberries. It was such a kind, considerate thing for Laura to do.''
 When asked if he has any interest in a high-level job in the administration, Mr. Schwarzman said he has ''a great life.'' Still, that does not mean that it could not become greater: within Republican fund-raising circles and on Wall Street, Mr. Schwarzman's desire for the Treasury post has become well known. 
 As for his credentials, his supporters point to his experience as an international financier. He is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, along with a multitude of other bankers who fancy themselves as globetrotting statesmen. 
 All the same, unlike Peter G. Peterson, his co-founder at Blackstone and a former commerce secretary who has written book after book cautioning against the ravages of out-of-control deficits, Mr. Schwarzman has written no major op-ed articles or books on public policy. 
 Others on Wall Street wonder whether he could extricate himself from Blackstone, a small firm that has succeeded largely on the basis of his energy and contacts, and question how he would fare in a large bureaucracy like the Treasury Department.
 NOW, as he casts his eye toward Washington, even some of his friends are still unsure of his stand on issues or even what party he belongs to. ''Isn't he a Democrat?'' asked John F. Welch Jr., the former chief executive of General Electric, when asked about Mr. Schwarzman's political ambitions. ''I had no idea. I just talk to him about deals.'' 
 But what Mr. Schwarzman does have going for him is a relationship with a president known to put the highest stock in personal ties.
 ''It's a personal connection,'' Mr. Schwarzman said of President Bush. ''I was fascinated about how that transition occurs with someone who was not achievement-oriented. He could have ended up like most guys from a privileged background.''
 All the same, Mr. Schwarzman is cagey about the depth of the bond -- as well he should be: the cardinal rule for prospective appointees is never to let on how badly you want a job. But he cannot resist the odd, if not somewhat revealing, joke. 
 ''I'm being announced tomorrow,'' he said when asked about any contact he has had with the White House since the election. 
 ''Oh come on, you have to have a sense of humor,'' he added quickly, when no laughs were forthcoming. ''I'm just kidding.'' Or is he?


CORRECTION-DATE: December 5, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with an article about Stephen A. Schwarzman, chief executive of the Blackstone Group, misstated the surname of an executive shown with him at a benefit for the Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was David Koch, executive vice president of Koch Industries, not David Kohn. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chief executive of the Blackstone Group. ''I just want to give something back,'' he said of his ambitions outside of the business world. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
An abundance of charity events: In photograph at left, John Bernbach and Christine and Stephen Schwarzman at a dinner given by the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. At right, Mr. Schwarzman and David Kohn at a party given by the Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. (Photos by left, Chance Yeh/PMc
right, Jimi Celeste/PMc)
 Stephen Schwarzman, left, with John Kukral, a senior managing director of Blackstone, and Sir Ewen Fergusson, chairman of Savoy Hotels. (Photo by Kaz Nagayasu/Reuters)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (86%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); DANCE (73%); DANCE COMPANIES (70%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); BALLET (68%); POLITICS (68%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (66%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (63%) Biographical Information

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%); MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (59%) Treasury Department; Treasury Department

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Landon Jr Thomas; Stephen Schwarzman; George W (Pres) Bush; John W (Sec) Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



623 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Swing Vote; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: The New East-West Divide

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

 BODY:
IN Europe, geography no longer equals destiny,'' the secretary general of the NATO alliance said last April when seven formerly Communist countries, including the three Baltic states that used to be part of the Soviet Union, became members. 
 Yet geography obviously still does count for Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin. He is insisting that the pro-Russian candidate won last weekend in Ukraine's presidential elections, while President Bush and leaders of the European Union side with opposition charges that the vote was rigged. 
 So has a Ukrainian political standoff escalated to a Russian-American confrontation out of the cold war, ''captive nations'' and all? 
 Mr. Putin does appear to be insisting that the lines defining Moscow's sphere influence in eastern Europe -- which have been retreating steadily over the last 15 years -- will hold firm at Ukraine's western border. 
 Western leaders are calling for respect for the democratically expressed will of the Ukrainian people. With long memory of autocracy and the aggressiveness it can produce, they believe that democracy itself best guarantees their own security, and Russia's. Mr. Putin appears to think that democracy is good, but that control -- within Russia and over Russia's closest neighbors -- is better. 
 So while there are no Russian tanks massed at the border and no danger of nuclear bombers flying, as there were in the cold war crises in Poland, East Germany, Budapest and Prague, there is a profound east-west gulf nonetheless. It is simply that the character of this divide is entirely new. In Mr. Putin's view, the outcome of the vote in Ukraine was ''perfectly clear'' -- 49.46 percent for Prime Minister Viktor F. Yanukovich, President Leonid D. Kuchma's handpicked successor, and 46.61 percent for the opposition candidate, Viktor A. Yushchenko. Mr. Kuchma certified the results despite warnings from Europe and the United States that to do so would be a mistake. Mediation attempts, led by Javier Solana of the European Union, began in Kiev on Friday, with Mr. Kuchma and the two candidates agreeing to keep talking as thousands from each camp squared off in the streets.
 That was after Washington and Moscow had taken their positions. Secretary of State Colin Powell, citing reports of fraud, said: ''We cannot accept this result as legitimate.'' And Mr. Putin said: ''We should not be deciding whether to accept or reject the poll results. That's for the people of Ukraine to decide.''
 But besides talk, as Stalin might have asked back in the days of the cold war, what could the United States and Europe do about all this? More important, as Truman and Eisenhower never had the luxury of asking, what could Russia really do about it? 
 Mr. Putin may believe that history and geography are on his side, but he could be wrong. Ukraine, divided within itself, has long been ambivalent about Russia. While Ukraine was Moscow's breadbasket under Communism, its people were proud and the Kremlin tried to keep Ukrainian nationalism in check. Nikita S. Khrushchev, who had been Moscow's proconsul in Kiev after the famine caused by Stalin's forced collectivization of agriculture, often wore embroidered Ukrainian shirts even after he took over in the Kremlin. 
 In this year's election, support was strong for Mr. Yushchenko in western Ukraine, which was part of Poland before 1939 and where many people speak Polish today. He promised to be less ambivalent than Mr. Kuchma was in trying to bring Ukraine into the European Union and NATO. Mr. Yanukovich placed his bets on strengthening ties with Russia, and his support came from the Russian-speaking eastern Ukraine. Mr. Putin visited twice during the campaign to support Mr. Yanukovich, and congratulated him on victory even before the government certified the results. 
 Mr. Putin might take comfort from proximity. Brussels, the headquarters of the European Union, and Washington are far away, while Russia is next door. Mr. Powell himself will soon be gone, and, as Mr. Putin may see it, Mr. Bush certainly has an interest in preserving a close relationship with Mr. Putin, the leader of the world's second biggest military power.
 So this may well have seemed a moment for Mr. Putin to test his ability to control a neighbor. He and his predecessor, Boris N. Yeltsin, kept tight smiles on their faces for a decade and a half as the Western values and freedoms they said they welcomed in Moscow led to unwelcome economic and strategic inroads by the West on Russia's western and southern buffer zones. Now Mr. Putin has stopped smiling about such encroachments on his turf. 
 Ukraine is, in fact, a special case for Russia, whose sphere of influence in Europe has shrunk steadily since 1989 -- first when Germany was reunified and most recently with the expansion of the European Union last spring. None of those countries had been as close, culturally or historically, to the Russian core as Ukraine is.
 On the other side of the new gulf, though, is Europe. 
 Many of Ukraine's 48 million people hope one day to join the new Europe and NATO as Mr. Yushchenko promised to try to do; even Mr. Yanukovich wants a decent relationship and better economic ties with the West, as Mr. Kuchma did. 
 A decade ago, the West had an intense strategic concern about Ukraine, but much of that was addressed when the United States obtained its cooperation in neutralizing the nuclear arsenal left there by the Soviet Union's collapse. Today's European leaders have leverage in Ukraine that is primarily economic. Ukraine's gross national product last year was still only 60 percent of what it had been before the Soviet collapse, and the European Union is its largest foreign trading partner. 
 Before Ukraine can build a closer relationship with the European Union or NATO, however, those institutions insist that Ukrainian shortcomings on democracy, corruption and pervasive state control of the economy all have to be overcome, to meet standards set for all members. Russia and Mr. Putin make no such demands on Ukraine or on Belarus, its northern neighbor, which has in effect turned its back on Western-style democracy and free markets and has the closest ties with Russia of any formerly Soviet republic. 
 Mr. Putin says he wants good relations with the West, but he insists that it take Russia on its own terms. In any event, Washington and the Europeans cannot do much to exercise moral suasion on Ukrainian officials other than threaten to hold up visas or new trade or aid agreements with the West. 
 But maybe Mr. Putin's options are limited, too. It is hard to imagine him contemplating direct military intervention, unthinkable since Mikhail S. Gorbachev let the Berlin Wall crumble. Only Ukrainians can resolve their political impasse, even though they will also have to live with their big neighbor next door regardless of who leads their government.
 Mr. Putin will look like a bully no matter who the winner is. ''One of the strange questions is why the Russians raised the stakes so high,'' said Stephen Sestanovich, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who has long dealt with Russian affairs. ''If Yushchenko ends up on top, it's a defeat for Putin that he didn't have to endure. If Yanukovich does, it makes Putin look worse than anything he's done domestically. It's going to be tough to turn the page.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Supporters of Ukraine's opposition candidate. (Photo by Mykhailo Markiv/Reuters)(pg. 1)
 Lech Walesa, Poland's former president, spoke in Kiev to support the opposition candidate, Viktor Yushchenko, but also to appeal for nonviolence. (Photo by Alexander Zemlianichenko/Associated Press)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ELECTION FRAUD (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%) Elections; United States International Relations; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%); JAVIER SOLANA (58%) Craig R Whitney; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; Viktor F (Prime Min) Yanukovich; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (69%) UKRAINE (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); POLAND (92%); BALTIC STATES (92%); HUNGARY (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); CZECH REPUBLIC (69%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) Russia; Ukraine; European Union; Europe; Russia

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



624 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: What Gave Us the Right

BYLINE: By Alan Wolfe

 BODY:

THE RIGHT NATION
Conservative Power in America.
By John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge.
450 pp. The Penguin Press. $25.95.

LEO STRAUSS AND THE POLITICS
OF AMERICAN EMPIRE
By Anne Norton.
235 pp. Yale University Press. $25.
 IS George W. Bush not only the most conservative president we've ever had, but an entirely new kind of conservative whose ideas will dominate American politics for the foreseeable future? Or is he -- along with the neoconservative ''Straussians'' who advised him to go to war in Iraq+- not really a conservative at all, but a daring crusader who'd make a real conservative like Leo Strauss turn over in his grave? Oddly, the better-written and more politically astute of two recent books, ''The Right Nation,'' by John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge, offers the wrong answer to these questions, while the often incoherent one, Anne Norton's ''Leo Strauss and the Politics of American Empire,'' gets them right.
 Micklethwait, the United States editor for The Economist, and Wooldridge, its Washington correspondent, are the authors of a wonderful book on business advice manuals, ''The Witch Doctors: Making Sense of the Management Gurus.'' In ''The Right Nation,'' they show how the conservative movement that brought Bush to power is not recognizable as conservative from a European perspective. Ours is not a Tory conservatism respectful of the landed gentry, deferential to the privileges of an established church, fearful of class division -- and, at least in modern times, incompetent in politics. 
 Rather, the authors argue, American conservatism is exceptional because America is. Fueled by free-market enthusiasts, gun-toting libertarians, Bible-believing Christians and welfare-hating exurbanites, the conservatism of a Grover Norquist or Tom DeLay knows what it stands for, has the confidence that gloomy liberals lack and best represents the places in America that are growing most rapidly, like Colorado Springs, Texas, the South. So powerful is its appeal that liberals must alter their ideas to counter it (one reason John Kerry posed with a shotgun during the campaign). Americans love business, freedom and the military, and on these key issues, the liberal disadvantage is palpable. ''The stage is set,'' Micklethwait and Wooldridge believe, ''for a possible realignment of American politics, to make the Republicans the natural party of government in the same way that the Democrats once were.'' Their analysis, presented well before the 2004 election, now seems more prescient than talk of an emerging Democratic majority -- or, if a mea culpa is permissible, of one nation, after all.
 Micklethwait and Wooldridge are not cheerleaders for the right; they keep their politics to themselves and balance their respect for conservatism's success with numerous examples of its limits and failures. Ideological tilt is not the flaw of their otherwise engaging book; superficial analysis is. The most obvious defect in their treatment is that Bush has not run as a hard-right conservative. In 2000, he displayed his compassion for all to see. In 2004, he attacked Kerry as a liberal and didn't endorse the hard-right position on gay rights or abortion. His victory was as strategically brilliant as it was ideologically imprecise. Micklethwait and Wooldridge know he is a conservative, and Bush himself knows he is a conservative, but there are not a few voters out there, including many who voted for him, who have not been let in on the secret. 
 George W. Bush's electoral victories speak to the success of the right in organizing politics, while demonstrating the left's hold on our political imagination. Under Bush, conservatives became big-spending, deficit-inducing Keynesians. They offered to improve and expand programs like Medicare. When they attacked environmental protection, they did it standing in front of trees (the right's equivalent of the left's hunting permits). Judge conservatives by what they say rather than by what they do, and all their ideas are liberal.
 Micklethwait and Wooldridge fail to appreciate the conservative appropriation of liberal ideas because their book pays little attention to ideas of any sort. Conservatism, they write, is new and different, but they never say whether it makes sense. Yes, conservatives thought out of the box in denouncing Europe and pursuing a unilateralist policy in Iraq, but if the ideas behind their foreign policy are disastrous, as they evidently are, perhaps one should be more guarded about conservatism's triumph. The same could, and should, be said about the right's domestic policies. It is adventurous to spend money the government does not have. But if the result is as unwise as it is irresponsible, those who promote such a program will pay a significant political price in the future.
 These are issues Anne Norton, a political philosopher at the University of Pennsylvania, does not back away from in her book about the students of Leo Strauss. Herself not a Straussian -- she studied with Strauss's students, not with the man himself -- she is fascinated by the prominence of so many of her classmates in Washington. And so she put aside the poststructuralist approach to political identity and antebellum political culture she'd deployed in books like ''95 Theses on Politics, Culture, and Method'' to ponder age-old questions about truth and power.
 Her most impressive achievement is to demonstrate how far the ideas we associate with Straussians have strayed from the ideas of Leo Strauss (1899-1973), the German Jewish emigre philosopher who was a central figure at the University of Chicago after World War II. Strauss was skeptical about democracy; the Straussians believe it can take root in places as unlikely as Baghdad. Strauss treated nature as inchoate and unknowable; his disciples turn to it for fixed principles. ''Patriotism was a suspect virtue for Strauss,'' Norton writes; the contrast need hardly be stated. Like most European conservatives, Strauss was an opponent of modernity; his students think America is great because it is modernity embodied. 
 Although academic in nature, these differences between Strauss and today's neoconservatives provide the depth missing in more journalistic accounts. Conservatism cannot take firm root in America's individualistic and populistic political culture. It can remain ''a remnant'' -- Albert Jay Nock's term for an enlightened elite -- or discard its core convictions. The Straussians chose the latter, assuring their influence but diluting the power of their ideas.
 Norton might have elaborated her chapter on the real Strauss into a major book. Instead, she has written a short, gossipy, polemical and unpersuasive sketch devoted mainly to telling secondhand stories. Some of them -- the existence of Straussian ''truth squads'' disrupting classes at Chicago -- are pure hearsay. Others -- the suicide of Clinton Rossiter, a conservative political scientist at Cornell, after he was rudely treated by a Straussian colleague for siding with black demonstrators -- are exaggerated; Rossiter's death, as the account upon which Norton relies makes clear, was the outcome of his emotional problems, not his politics.
 At the same time, Norton is far more Straussian than she acknowledges. For Strauss/ ians, ''secondary sources are dispensable.'' Her book too offers no footnotes. The Strauss/ ians see persecution everywhere. Norton writes of persistent efforts by conservatives to silence the left. Strauss was an elitist; Norton can barely conceal her disdain for the ''minor academic institutions'' two Straussians appointed to President Bush's Council on Bioethics came from. Allan Bloom, Strauss's most famous disciple, was obsessed with sex; Norton describes Straussians as ''larger, softer men, with soft white hands,'' who have not been ''entirely successful in warding off the evil eye of sexual rejection.''
 The ascendancy of modern conservatism -- and the influence of political philosophers trained by one of the great, if also one of the most perverse, thinkers of the 20th century -- are developments historians will be pondering for years. Alas, neither of these books offers the right combination of insight and analysis to help us understand these remarkable things.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christopher Serra)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CONSERVATISM (92%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); WRITERS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); LITERATURE (74%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (69%); RELIGION (69%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) Alan Wolfe; John Micklethwait; Adrian Wooldridge; Anne Norton; Leo (1899-1973) Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



625 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; UP FRONT: WORTH NOTING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Women Have the Money, But Not the Power

BYLINE: By John Sullivan

 BODY:
When it comes to politics, New Jersey is a man's world.
 In fact, the state ranks dead last when it comes to political participation by women, according to a new study by the Institute for Women's Policy Research in Washington. 
The study, Status of Women in the States, measured things like voter registration, voter participation, and the state and federal offices held by women.
 ''New Jersey is one of only seven states where men vote in a higher percentage than women,'' said Jon Shure, president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a research organization based in Trenton.
 New Jersey ranks 48th in terms of the number of women elected to state and federal office and 31st in terms of the number of women's political organizations.
 On the other hand, women in New Jersey do much better economically than their counterparts in other states. The state ranked 8th in terms of women's earning power and 11th in social and economic autonomy, such as the number of women-owned businesses.
 Mr. Shure speculated that women's participation in New Jersey politics might be stifled by a system that favors incumbents and veteran politicians over newcomers.
 ''There is an old-boy system, and the increasing costs of campaigns in New Jersey make it harder to run for office,'' he said.
 The really troubling thing, Mr. Shure said, is that women's political participation actually seems to be declining in New Jersey. Two years ago, the state ranked 49th.
 ''It is pervasive and it is getting worse,'' he said. John Sullivan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); TRENDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); WOMEN (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (52%) Women; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Social Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH (91%) Institute for Women's Policy Research

PERSON: JOHN SULLIVAN (58%) John Sullivan

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



626 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: For Many Cubans, an Uneasy Farewell to the Dollar

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: HAVANA 

 BODY:
In the dusty, dim recesses of his bookshop here, William Rodriguez Munoz keeps a worn leather wallet full of Cuban currency past and present, from the faded gray pesos of the time before Fidel Castro's revolution to the shiny notes that in recent days replaced the United States dollar as the dominant legal tender here. 
 Mr. Munoz, a retired leftist newspaperman who collects everything from stamps to coins, says he fully supports Mr. Castro's decision to ban the dollar from use in all transactions. It was, after all, a symbol of what Communists like him consider an implacable capitalist enemy. Yet Mr. Munoz is going to hold on to the $7,500 in his savings account, which he is still allowed to have under the new law.
 ''I'm earning interest on it,'' he said ''I'll only change the dollars for pesos as I need to, to buy necessities.'' 
 Mr. Munoz is not alone in his ambivalence toward the new currency, known as the convertible peso or, on the street, the chavito. Cubans greeted the changeover with a mix of patriotic pride and uneasiness. 
 While many people said they were happy to see greenbacks with portraits of American presidents leaving their streets, others said they were worried that the brightly colored peso, which the government has decreed is equal to the dollar, will not hold its value in the long run.
 ''Nobody knows if this is permanent or momentary,'' said a 33-year-old plumber, who like many people interviewed for this article asked that his name not be published. ''A year from now the law supporting the convertible peso could not exist. This exchange rate only exists here in Cuba, because Fidel Castro is the only one who says it is true. So the smart ones who have money are guarding their dollars.''
 On Oct. 25, Mr. Castro decreed that beginning this month the dollar would no longer be accepted in stores, restaurants, hotels or anywhere else on the island, although dollar bank accounts would still be allowed. The government also declared that it would charge a 10 percent surcharge to exchange dollars for pesos after Nov. 15, encouraging citizens to turn in their dollars or deposit them in the bank.
 The convertible pesos, bright with etchings memorializing revolutionary heroes like Che Guevara and Jose Marti, were actually printed in the mid-1990's as part of a plan to cover occasional shortfalls of dollars, but it was not until November that they went into wide circulation.
 For Mr. Castro, the decision to ban the dollar in transactions was politically ingenious, diplomats and experts on Cuba say. In a single stroke, he has collected millions in hard currency that Cubans had saved, while putting an end to the long-running contradiction that his country's economy depends on the currency of his sworn enemy, the United States. 
 Francisco Soberon, president of the Central Bank, declined to say how many dollars the government had collected in exchange for the convertible pesos, nor would he say how large a reserve the government intended to create to support the currency, arguing that ''in a war, information is very important.''
 He said that at least 2.5 million Cubans had lined up to change dollars during the last 18 days, and hundreds of thousands had opened bank accounts, taking dollars they had been hoarding at home and putting them in government-controlled banks. ''It exceeded all our hopes,'' he said.
 In recent speeches, Mr. Castro, 78, has argued that he must wean the country off dollars to protect its economy and sovereignty from the ''economic warfare'' being waged by the United States. 
 Over the last four years, the Bush administration has taken harsh steps to stem the flow of dollars to the island, cracking down on American tourists who have been visiting the island illegally, and limiting what Cubans living in the United States can send to their families. The White House has also set up a special team of law enforcement officials to find ways to cut off other sources of hard currency flowing into Cuba. 
 Mr. Soberon said the Bush administration had also tried to use fines and other forms of pressure to curb Cuba's ability to deposit dollars in international banks, hamstringing its ability to import goods. 
 The only defense, Mr. Soberon said, was to switch to other currencies, like the euro. ''This is to confront an aggression,'' he said. ''And to deprive our enemies of a weapon.''
 The dollar was made legal tender here in 1993 in a desperate move to attract hard currency during an economic collapse that followed the loss of aid after the fall of the Soviet Union. 
 The convertible peso, like the currency in some other small nations, has no value outside the country. The government has also kept in circulation the old Cuban peso, with which state salaries are paid. Those pesos are worth only about four cents, even in Cuba.
 The currency switch is also a clever way for the government to tap into the more than $800 million that Cubans in America wire home every year to family members. Now expatriate Cubans must either send the money in some other currency or let the Castro government collect 10 cents on the dollar in taxes once their family members change the dollars for pesos.
 For more than a decade, the dollar has remained the dominant currency on the island, used to buy everything from shampoo to furniture and automobiles. The state even embraced the enemy currency, setting up dollar stores, where people with United States currency could buy clothes, food, appliances and durable goods not available to most Cubans. State companies devoted to tourism also collected American dollars. 
 A dual economy quickly evolved. Cubans receiving money from relatives in the United States or earning tips in the tourist industry lived far better than people who depended on meager government salaries paid in Cuban pesos, which range between $5 and $50 a month. The state provides free education and health care as well as subsidized food rations. 
 Today, Cubans say the food rations they can buy with the old pesos at government stores are not enough to live on. 
 As a result, people here have learned to survive through a daily struggle to get hard currency by whatever means necessary. Factory workers steal cigars from corrupt warehouse managers and sell them on the street. Prostitution is widespread in Havana. Teachers and engineers moonlight as cab drivers. Fishermen sell fish illegally door to door. ''If you don't do it, there is no way to survive,'' said Tania, a 32-year-old worker in a cigar factory who did not want her last name published. She was selling stolen Cohiba cigars from the dingy back room of a house near a major hotel in the Vedado neighborhood. Her salary, she said, was about $4.50 a month. ''I have two children,'' she said. ''What are they going to eat? One has to do bad things.''
 The introduction of the new currency comes as the Cuban government is reining in private enterprise and re-establishing centralized control over much of the tourist economy. Last April, the government stopped granting licenses for new restaurants and rooming houses. It also reduced the number of categories of private employment people may legally pursue. Some more established restaurant owners said privately that they would continue to accept dollars, though some said they might charge a little more to cover a government surcharge. 
 Still, one successful restaurant owner, who asked not to be named, said he would continue to accept whatever currency his patrons wanted to use. He also said he was intending to keep his profits in dollars, tucked away in foreign banks if possible. ''I don't like these pesos,'' he said. ''I would be crazy to keep my money here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Onions were sold outside a market in Havana. The Cuban government this month ended circulation of the dollar, and many businesses have begun accepting only a locally printed currency, the convertible peso. (Photo by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); TRENDS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); RESTAURANTS (61%) Currency; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (90%) James C Mckinley; Fidel (Pres) Castro; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Cuba; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



627 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Republicans in Charge; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: A Steamroller That May Lose Its Steam

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
FOR some Democrats this year, the prospect of President Bush's re-election with larger Republican majorities in both houses of Congress seemed to presage not just continued one-party dominance of Washington but a new and threatening one-party dominion over the life of the nation itself.
 ''If President Bush is re-elected, we will be close to a tipping point of fundamental change in the political system itself,'' Robert Kuttner wrote last winter in The American Prospect, a liberal journal. ''The United States could become a nation in which the dominant party rules for a prolonged period, marginalizes a token opposition and is extremely difficult to dislodge because democracy itself is rigged.'' 
 Maybe. From the rapacious capitalism of the Gilded Age to the cronyism of Teapot Dome, from the corruption of Tammany Hall to the cultural and fiscal excesses of the Great Society, American history is replete with examples of the price of one-party rule. At the moment, Democrats on Capitol Hill lack even the power to call a committee meeting, issue a subpoena or do anything much more active than complain. 
 But history also suggests a perilous twist on an adage as old as Athens: Whom the Gods would destroy they first give control of both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue. With responsibility for all of government comes accountability for all of government, and the picture is not always pretty.
 ''There are three pretty obvious patterns,'' said Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, who should know. ''There are majorities which are motivated to do very large things, which resonate with the country -- the Homestead Act, land-grant colleges, all of the Progressive reforms, the rise of the New Deal. The other possibility is that you get a majority that doesn't do much bad and doesn't do much good, like lots of state legislatures.
 ''And third, you can have majorities that get out of touch and either become corrupt or get arrogant and isolated, the way the Democrats after the 1992 election clearly didn't understand the country and threw away their majority.''
 It is far too early to say which pattern will prevail, and in his first four years Mr. Bush has shown an uncanny willingness to do what he says and a corresponding ability to prove doubters wrong. But the new Congress will not even convene until Jan. 4, and Mr. Bush has so far sketched in only the broadest terms his agenda of overhauling Social Security and the federal tax code. His biggest ideas are complicated, may not attract uniform Republican support and will probably need Democratic votes to pass.
 Certainly, there have been early signs of elephantine hubris, chief among them the House majority's willingness to rewrite its own ethics rules for the sole purpose of assuring that its majority leader, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, would not have to step down should he be indicted as a result of any of the inquiries now swirling around him. Only a dominant party would dare do a thing like that. It was the Republicans themselves, after all, who instituted the rule that indicted members could not serve as leaders. They did so a decade ago after supplanting the long-ruling Democrats, whom they derided as ethically sloppy.
 ''It was a mistake, because it was a public statement that the party would change the rules to benefit one individual,'' Mr. Gingrich said of the DeLay decision. ''That's a mistake, period. Are the rules subordinate to the interests of the powerful, or are the powerful subordinate to the interests of the rules? In a free society, the rules govern.''
 But there were other signs that the increased Republican majorities may have emboldened individual Republican members in ways that will make Mr. Bush's efforts to control his party's Congressional wing no picnic. Last weekend, conservative House Republicans, led by a pair of obstreperous committee chairmen, managed to scuttle a sweeping compromise plan to overhaul the intelligence-gathering apparatus that had been hammered out with White House backing. 
 The measure was hotly opposed by Pentagon brass, who argued it would undercut their prerogatives, and there was ample doubt about just how hard Mr. Bush himself had pressed for passage. In any event, he vowed to try again next month, and indeed, he almost had to make that vow. It would not say much for the president's supposed second term mandate if renegades from his own party could roll him so early; they might decide to do it often.
 Thomas E. Mann, a veteran student of Congress at the Brookings Institution, suggested that in the case of intelligence reform the Republicans, at a minimum, had passed up ''a chance to try to send a signal to Democrats that really, where possible, we want to work together.''
 He predicted that the White House's strategy on a big proposal like individual investment accounts for Social Security -- an idea popular with many conservatives but immensely costly in the short term -- would be to try to ''muscle it through, basically with only Republican votes, and that almost certainly means an accounting gimmick to deal with the transition costs.''
 ''So the real question in my mind,'' Mr. Mann added, ''is whether checks and balances still works, whether there still exists a capacity to scrub these proposals.''
 Not all one-party dominance is created equal. Franklin D. Roosevelt won passage of the New Deal in the face of economic turmoil on the strength of his own electoral landslides, though he faced virulent conservative critics and tangled unsuccessfully with the Supreme Court.
 Bill Clinton won office in 1992 without a majority of the popular vote, but with narrow control of both houses of Congress. He then acceded to the wishes of his party's Congressional leaders not to press measures like the campaign finance changes that Ross Perot had popularized in the campaign; overreached with his own health care plan, and lost the House of Representatives to the Republicans for the first time since the Eisenhower administration.
 The Republicans' current majorities are also relatively narrow -- in the Senate, short of the 60 votes needed to stop a filibuster, and generally well shy of the big working advantages that let Lyndon B. Johnson buy guns and butter at the same time in the 1960's. Today, partisan polarization is high and Mr. Bush will have to pick his fights, then fight them hard. He will no longer be able to argue that to help win re-election he needs to pass measures that some Republicans do not like, whether a prescription drug benefit for Medicare or his No Child Left Behind education bill. 
 Experience suggests that periods of one-party rule sometimes merely mask divisions and delay conflict, but do not eliminate them. The Democrats' 20 years of dominance beginning with the New Deal produced a backlash and postwar party divisions that led to Eisenhower's middle of the road. The seeming promise of the early 1960's was shattered, paving the way for the Reagan revolution.
 Even the period that was perhaps the least partisan in American history was merely a pause. During the ''Era of Good Feeling,'' James Monroe was elected to a second term in 1820 with only a single electoral vote cast against him, in the last election in which only one national party stood at the polls. Congress had just passed the Missouri Compromise, which allowed Maine to enter the union as a free state and Missouri as a slave-owning one.
 ''Mr. Monroe had just been re-elected with apparent unanimity, but he had not the slightest influence on Congress,'' Henry Clay wrote at the time. ''His career was considered as closed. There was nothing further to be expected by him or from him.''
 Monroe was succeeded in 1824 by John Quincy Adams, who defeated Andrew Jackson in one of the closest, bitterest contests in American history, and then lost to Jackson in 1828. Democrats went on to hold the White House for much of the next 32 years, struggling in vain with the Whigs and later Republicans in Congress to resolve their biggest fights. The result: the Civil War.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Franklin D. Roosevelt signed one New Deal bill after another, thanks to a pliant Congress. Bill Clinton lost the House and House Speaker Tom Foley in 1994. (Photo by Bettman/Corbis)
 (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); HISTORY (75%); ETHICS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SUBPOENAS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%) United States Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%) Todd S Purdum; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



628 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1791 words

HEADLINE: Vast Borrowing Seen in Altering Social Security

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
The White House and Republicans in Congress are all but certain to embrace large-scale government borrowing to help finance President Bush's plan to create personal investment accounts in Social Security, according to administration officials, members of Congress and independent analysts. 
 The White House says it has made no decisions about how to pay for establishing the accounts, and among Republicans on Capitol Hill there are divergent opinions about how much borrowing would be prudent at a time when the government is running large budget deficits. Many Democrats say that the costs associated with setting up personal accounts just make Social Security's financial problems worse, and that the United States can scarcely afford to add to its rapidly growing national debt.
 But proponents of Mr. Bush's effort to make investment accounts the centerpiece of an overhaul of the retirement system said there were no realistic alternatives to some increases in borrowing, a requirement the White House is beginning to acknowledge. 
 ''The administration hasn't settled on any particular Social Security reform plan,'' Joshua B. Bolten, the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, said in an e-mail message in response to questions about overhauling the system.
 ''The president does support personal accounts, which need not add over all to the cost of the program but could in the short run require additional borrowing to finance the transition,'' Mr. Bolten said. ''I believe there's a strong case that this approach not only makes sense as a matter of savings policy, but is also fiscally prudent.''
 Proponents say the necessary amount of borrowing could vary widely, from hundreds of billions to trillions of dollars over a decade, depending on how much money people are permitted to contribute to the accounts and whether the changes to Social Security include benefit cuts and tax increases. 
 Borrowing by the government could be necessary to establish the personal accounts because of the way Social Security pays for benefits. Under the current system, the payroll tax levied on workers goes to benefits for people who are already retired. Personal accounts would be paid for out of the same pool of money; they would allow workers to divert a portion of their payroll taxes into accounts invested in mutual funds or other investments.
 The money going into the accounts would therefore no longer be available to pay benefits to current retirees. The shortfall would have to be made up somehow to preserve benefits for people who are already retired during the transition from one system to the other, and by nearly all estimates there is no way to make it up without relying at least in part on government borrowing.
 Mr. Bush and Republicans in Congress have paid little political price in the last four years for the swing from budget surpluses to deficits. But some polls show that Americans consider reducing the deficit to be a higher priority than many other goals, including cutting taxes, and embracing a new round of borrowing could pose political as well as economic risks.
 A reasonable amount of borrowing now, the proponents say, would avert a much bigger financial obligation decades later. They say personal accounts would yield higher returns for individuals than the current system and could be a catalyst to broader changes that would bring the benefits promised by Social Security into line with what the system, which is also about to come under intense financial strain from the aging of the baby boom generation and the increase in life expectancies, can afford to pay. 
 Mr. Bush has vowed to push hard to remake Social Security. Republicans in Congress say the White House has signaled to them that Mr. Bush will put the issue at the top of his domestic agenda in the coming year.
 But the White House has never answered fundamental questions about Mr. Bush's plan. In particular, it has not explained how it would deal with the financial quandary created by its call for personal accounts.
 Some conservative analysts and Republicans in Congress say a portion of the temporary financial gap that would be created by personal accounts could be closed through measures like holding down the growth in overall government spending. But nearly everyone involved in the debate over Social Security agrees that some borrowing will be necessary. 
 The main Republican players in Congress on the issue say they expect to endorse an increase in borrowing to finance the transition to a new system. But they remain split over whether to back plans that would include larger investment accounts and few painful trade-offs like benefit cuts and tax increases -- and therefore require more borrowing -- or to limit borrowing and include more steps that would be politically unpopular.
 ''Anybody who thinks borrowing money for the transition to personal accounts is going to solve the problem of the long-term solvency of Social Security doesn't understand the size of the problem,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over the retirement system.
 Mr. Grassley said Congress would also have to put benefit reductions and tax increases on the table, in part to hold down the need for borrowing and in part to assure that any changes restore Social Security's long-term financial stability.
 Under current projections used by Social Security's trustees, the government will have to begin drawing on general tax revenue to pay benefits to retirees in 2018, the first year in which scheduled benefit payments will exceed revenues from the payroll tax dedicated to the retirement system. By 2042, the government will have exhausted the Social Security trust fund -- its legal obligation to pay back to the retirement system the temporary surplus in payroll tax revenues it has borrowed over the last several decades to subsidize the rest of the budget -- and after that Social Security would be able to pay only about three-quarters of promised benefits.
 Opponents of Mr. Bush's approach say that Social Security's financial problems can be dealt with more easily without the addition of personal accounts, and that any large-scale borrowing would erase the presumed economic advantage of establishing the accounts: spurring more national savings, a goal that nearly all economists agree is worthy and important. Any increase in private, individual savings, they say, would be partly or wholly offset by an increase in public debt. National savings are what is left after counting up everything the nation spends. This pool of money goes to investing in the expansion and modernization of business. It is a vital component of economic health. 
 ''To the extent that the transition is debt-financed, the ostensible macroeconomic benefits from individual accounts are undermined,'' said Peter Orszag, an economist at the Brookings Institution who has been critical of personal account plans. ''In particular, you do not get an increase in national savings. It's engaging effectively in accounting gimmicks to make it look as if you're doing something when you're not.''
 In an effort to pressure the White House to acknowledge some of the financial trade-offs in its approach, Democratic leaders in Congress this week asked Mr. Bush to include in his next budget an accounting of the money that would be needed for his Social Security plan.
 Only by including such figures in the budget, the Democrats said in a letter to Mr. Bush, ''will Congress and the American people be able to weigh the difficult trade-offs between large-scale borrowing, Social Security benefit cuts, tax increases, and other spending reductions that may be required to fund your Social Security private accounts proposal. ''
 The White House, which has promised to cut the deficit in half while making Mr. Bush's tax cuts permanent, has signaled that it does not intend to include the figures in its budget, since the administration has not endorsed a detailed plan.
 The budget deficit in the year ended Sept. 30 was $413 billion. The total national debt is about $7.5 trillion, including $3 trillion owed by the government to itself, much of it in the form of the Social Security trust fund. Rising debt forces the government to pay out more of its revenue in interest payments, and can put upward pressure on the interest rates paid by businesses and consumers.
 Some Republicans in Congress are concerned that too much borrowing would carry large economic and political costs. Senator Judd Gregg, the New Hampshire Republican who will be chairman of the Senate Budget Committee next year, said he would support borrowing money for Social Security if it was part of a plan that also included modest benefit cuts and tax increases. 
 But he said the additional debt might have to be accounted for on the government's books in a way that would not technically show an increase in the budget deficit in coming years.
 ''You've got to look at this as a very significant long-term fiscal policy decision where you're going to have a loss in the first 10 to 15 years and a significant move toward solvency in the last 20 to 30 years,'' Mr. Gregg said. ''That mitigates against doing it in the context of a typical budget resolution.''
 To critics of personal accounts, Mr. Gregg's suggestion amounts to relying on budget gimmickry to hide the true costs. But supporters of the accounts say borrowing even a few trillion dollars now would be worthwhile, because it would help wipe out the retirement system's long-term unfunded liability -- the difference between what it will owe retirees under current law and the amount it will take in -- of around $11 trillion.
 Senator John E. Sununu of New Hampshire and Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, both Republicans, have sponsored legislation that would allow workers to contribute more to their personal accounts than most other plans proposed by members of Congress and outside groups and would not require tax increases or benefit cuts. But by some estimates it would require nearly $2 trillion in borrowing -- and, in the view of its critics, much more -- and even then would rely on the idea that the new system would create so much more economic growth that it would partly pay for itself by generating additional tax revenues for the government.
 Representative Jim Kolbe, Republican of Arizona, said the government could probably keep new borrowing to $800 billion over 10 years, but only if Congress and the administration are willing to back tax increases and benefit cuts as part of a broad overhaul of the retirement system.
 ''People do not understand that tough choices need to be made,'' Mr. Kolbe said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Judd Gregg will become chairman of the Senate Budget Committee next year. (Photo by Dennis Cook/Associated Press)(pg. 40) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%) Social Security (US); Privatization; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Social Security (US)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%)

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (78%) Judd (Sen) Gregg; Charles E (Sen) Grassley; George W (Pres) Bush; Richard W Stevenson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



629 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: How to Bring Home the Bacon

BYLINE: By JOHN J. FASO. 
John J. Faso, a partner in the law firm Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, is a former Republican minority leader of the State Assembly, where he served from 1987 to 2002.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
What will a second Bush term mean for blue-state New York? And how can the state's delegation to Congress -- most of them Democrats -- get New York what it needs?
 Democrats fear that New York's ability to defend its economic interests will be weakened by President Bush's decisive victory -- and by increased Republican majorities in both houses of Congress. Indeed, with Hillary Clinton and Charles E. Schumer now members of a reduced Democratic minority in the Senate and with the state's heavily Democratic delegation to the House facing a bigger Republican majority in that chamber, there is reason to worry. 
 Things will be especially difficult for New York if its Democratic representatives adopt a stance of unrelenting opposition to the president's policies. To be sure, the country is polarized in the wake of the election. And these Democrats will get pressure from their New York constituency to defend -- without compromise -- their party's position on issues from tax and Social Security policies to the confirmation of specific federal judicial nominees. 
 They should resist this pressure. Instead, they should do what other representatives -- Democrats and Republicans alike -- have historically done in Washington to get economic benefits for their states: adopt a unified approach and remain open to making alliances across the aisle. That strategy is the way to deliver for our state. 
 Take tax policy. With President Bush committed to fundamental changes in the tax code, New York Democrats must enter the debate in a serious and open-minded way. They must not simply chant, ''Tax the rich, tax the rich.'' 
 For one thing, they might be chanting the wrong mantra. During Mr. Bush's first term, our state's Democrats uniformly opposed the tax cuts promoted by the president. Yet many taxpayers in the metropolitan area -- where a family of four earning $100,000 a year is middle class rather than rich -- turned out to be big beneficiaries. Indeed, the marginal tax rate reductions and the tax cuts on dividends and capital gains have returned $36 billion to New Yorkers.
 For another, there is a lot at stake in the coming term. Although Mr. Bush has made a commitment to preserving the tax deduction for charitable giving and for home mortgages, he has omitted any mention of preserving the federal tax deduction for state and local income taxes -- both of which are notoriously high in New York. This means that the state delegation must be willing to compromise to get a tax package that both appeals to Republicans and protects the interests of New Yorkers. 
 Another area vital to the metropolitan area, and indeed the entire state, is the reauthorization of federal programs for highways and mass transit. Back in 1998, our senators at the time, Alfonse M. D'Amato and Daniel Patrick Moynihan, used their committee positions and political acumen to influence the transportation policy debate and get financing formulas that were favorable to New York. As a result of their bipartisan approach, transportation returns more to our State than it takes from our taxpayers -- the only federal program that does so. 
 The importance of transportation funds for New York today cannot be overestimated. 
 One-third of all daily users of mass transportation nationwide ride the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's subways, buses and commuter railroads. New York's future as a place to do business and as the nation's financial center depends on efficient transportation. Major proposed projects -- like the Long Island Rail Road's East Side access plan and Kennedy Airport's train link to lower Manhattan -- need major infusions of federal money. 
 Other projects, like the Second Avenue subway, will never be completed without billions in federal dollars. Reauthorization is now on the agenda, and New York's Democratic senators must be willing to horse-trade on this and other issues to get the transportation dollars the state needs. 
 A second Bush term will also involve initiatives to deal with the financing crisis in Social Security. The president supports the notion of private accounts for younger workers, under which part of their Social Security taxes is invested in individually owned accounts. Democrats generally oppose this idea, but such a system could be a boon to Wall Street. That's why the New York delegation should not automatically vote against Bush initiatives in this area. These programs represent an opportunity to enhance a key New York industry and the jobs it creates. 
 If they engage in bitter partisanship and political posturing in Washington, New York Democrats -- and thus all New Yorkers -- will be excluded when Congress and the administration make crucial decisions affecting our state. Instead, they must be flexible and united to win the political support needed to defend the state's needs. 
 It's important to be in the game, not shouting from the sidelines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); CHARITIES (65%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (62%); CITIES (62%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (60%); CHARITABLE GIVING (60%) Finances

ORGANIZATION: Congress (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) John J Faso

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



630 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: How to Bring Home the Bacon

BYLINE: By JOHN J. FASO. 
John J. Faso, a partner in the law firm Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, is a former Republican minority leader of the State Assembly, where he served from 1987 to 2002.

DATELINE: Albany 

 BODY:
What will a second Bush term mean for blue-state New York? And how can the state's delegation to Congress -- most of them Democrats -- get New York what it needs?
 Democrats fear that New York's ability to defend its economic interests will be weakened by President Bush's decisive victory -- and by increased Republican majorities in both houses of Congress. Indeed, with Hillary Clinton and Charles E. Schumer now members of a reduced Democratic minority in the Senate and with the state's heavily Democratic delegation to the House facing a bigger Republican majority in that chamber, there is reason to worry. 
 Things will be especially difficult for New York if its Democratic representatives adopt a stance of unrelenting opposition to the president's policies. To be sure, the country is polarized in the wake of the election. And these Democrats will get pressure from their New York constituency to defend -- without compromise -- their party's position on issues from tax and Social Security policies to the confirmation of specific federal judicial nominees. 
 They should resist this pressure. Instead, they should do what other representatives -- Democrats and Republicans alike -- have historically done in Washington to get economic benefits for their states: adopt a unified approach and remain open to making alliances across the aisle. That strategy is the way to deliver for our state. 
 Take tax policy. With President Bush committed to fundamental changes in the tax code, New York Democrats must enter the debate in a serious and open-minded way. They must not simply chant, ''Tax the rich, tax the rich.'' 
 For one thing, they might be chanting the wrong mantra. During Mr. Bush's first term, our state's Democrats uniformly opposed the tax cuts promoted by the president. Yet many taxpayers in the metropolitan area -- where a family of four earning $100,000 a year is middle class rather than rich -- turned out to be big beneficiaries. Indeed, the marginal tax rate reductions and the tax cuts on dividends and capital gains have returned $36 billion to New Yorkers.
 For another, there is a lot at stake in the coming term. Although Mr. Bush has made a commitment to preserving the tax deduction for charitable giving and for home mortgages, he has omitted any mention of preserving the federal tax deduction for state and local income taxes -- both of which are notoriously high in New York. This means that the state delegation must be willing to compromise to get a tax package that both appeals to Republicans and protects the interests of New Yorkers. 
 Another area vital to the state is the reauthorization of federal programs for highways and mass transit. Back in 1998, our senators at the time, Alfonse M. D'Amato and Daniel Patrick Moynihan, used their committee positions and political acumen to influence the transportation policy debate and get financing formulas that were favorable to New York. As a result of their bipartisan approach, transportation returns more to our State than it takes from our taxpayers -- the only federal program that does so. 
 The importance of transportation funds today cannot be overestimated. One-third of all daily users of mass transportation nationwide ride the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's subways, buses and commuter railroads. New York's future as a place to do business and as the nation's financial center depends on efficient transportation. Major proposed projects -- like the Long Island Rail Road's East Side access plan and Kennedy Airport's train link to lower Manhattan -- need major infusions of federal money. 
 Other projects, like the Second Avenue subway, will never be completed without billions in federal dollars. Reauthorization is now on the agenda, and New York's Democratic senators must be willing to horse-trade on this and other issues to get the transportation dollars the state needs. 
 A second Bush term will also involve initiatives to deal with the financing crisis in Social Security. The president supports the notion of private accounts for younger workers, under which part of their Social Security taxes is invested in individually owned accounts. Democrats generally oppose this idea, but such a system could be a boon to Wall Street. That's why the New York delegation should not automatically vote against Bush initiatives in this area. These programs represent an opportunity to enhance a key New York industry and the jobs it creates. 
 If they engage in bitter partisanship and political posturing, New York Democrats -- and thus all New Yorkers -- will be excluded when Congress and the administration make crucial decisions affecting our state. They must be flexible and united to win the political support needed to defend the state's needs. 
 It's important to be in the game, not shouting from the sidelines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); CHARITIES (65%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (62%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (60%); CHARITABLE GIVING (60%) Finances

ORGANIZATION: Congress (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) John J Faso

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) United States; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



631 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: How to Bring Home the Bacon

BYLINE: By JOHN J. FASO. 
John J. Faso, a partner in the law firm Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, is a former Republican minority leader of the State Assembly, where he served from 1987 to 2002.

DATELINE: Albany 

 BODY:
What will a second Bush term mean for blue-state New York? And how can the state's delegation to Congress -- most of them Democrats -- get New York what it needs?
 Democrats fear that New York's ability to defend its economic interests will be weakened by President Bush's decisive victory -- and by increased Republican majorities in both houses of Congress. Indeed, with Hillary Clinton and Charles E. Schumer now members of a reduced Democratic minority in the Senate and with the state's heavily Democratic delegation to the House facing a bigger Republican majority in that chamber, there is reason to worry. 
 Things will be especially difficult for New York if its Democratic representatives adopt a stance of unrelenting opposition to the president's policies. To be sure, the country is polarized in the wake of the election. And these Democrats will get pressure from their New York constituency to defend -- without compromise -- their party's position on issues from tax and Social Security policies to the confirmation of specific federal judicial nominees. 
 They should resist this pressure. Instead, they should do what other representatives -- Democrats and Republicans alike -- have historically done in Washington to get economic benefits for their states: adopt a unified approach and remain open to making alliances across the aisle. That strategy is the way to deliver for our state. 
 Take tax policy. With President Bush committed to fundamental changes in the tax code, New York Democrats must enter the debate in a serious and open-minded way. They must not simply chant, ''Tax the rich, tax the rich.'' 
 For one thing, they might be chanting the wrong mantra. During Mr. Bush's first term, our state's Democrats uniformly opposed the tax cuts promoted by the president. Yet many taxpayers in the metropolitan area -- where a family of four earning $100,000 a year is middle class rather than rich -- turned out to be big beneficiaries. Indeed, the marginal tax rate reductions and the tax cuts on dividends and capital gains have returned $36 billion to New Yorkers.
 For another, there is a lot at stake in the coming term. Although Mr. Bush has made a commitment to preserving the tax deduction for charitable giving and for home mortgages, he has omitted any mention of preserving the federal tax deduction for state and local income taxes -- both of which are notoriously high in New York. This means that the state delegation must be willing to compromise to get a tax package that both appeals to Republicans and protects the interests of New Yorkers. 
 Another area vital to the metropolitan area, and indeed the entire state, is the reauthorization of federal programs for highways and mass transit. Back in 1998, our senators at the time, Alfonse M. D'Amato and Daniel Patrick Moynihan, used their committee positions and political acumen to influence the transportation policy debate and get financing formulas that were favorable to New York. As a result of their bipartisan approach, transportation returns more to our State than it takes from our taxpayers -- the only federal program that does so. 
 The importance of transportation funds cannot be overestimated. One-third of all daily users of mass transportation nationwide ride the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's subways, buses and commuter railroads. New York's future as a place to do business and as the nation's financial center depends on efficient transportation. Major proposed projects -- like the Long Island Rail Road's East Side access plan and Kennedy Airport's train link to lower Manhattan -- need major infusions of federal money. 
 Other projects, like the Second Avenue subway, will never be completed without billions in federal dollars. Reauthorization is now on the agenda, and New York's Democratic senators must be willing to horse-trade on this and other issues to get the needed transportation dollars. 
 A second Bush term will also involve initiatives to deal with the financing crisis in Social Security. The president supports the notion of private accounts for younger workers, under which part of their Social Security taxes is invested in individually owned accounts. 
 Democrats generally oppose this idea, but such a system could be a boon to Wall Street. That's why the New York delegation should not automatically vote against Bush initiatives in this area. These programs are an opportunity to enhance a key local industry and the jobs it creates. 
 If they engage in bitter partisanship and political posturing, New York Democrats -- and thus all New Yorkers -- will be excluded when Congress and the administration make crucial decisions affecting our state. They must be flexible and united to win the political support needed to defend the state's needs. 
 It's important to be in the game, not shouting from the sidelines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); CHARITIES (65%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (62%); CITIES (62%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (60%); CHARITABLE GIVING (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Editorials; Taxation; Finances

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) John J Faso

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) United States; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2004



632 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Southeast Asia Urged to Form Economic Bloc

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: VIENTIANE, Laos, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
Two of Southeast Asia's newest leaders called for faster economic integration at an annual summit meeting on Sunday, saying the region risked being trampled by China and India if it did not act.
 The recently elected leader of Indonesia, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, and Abdullah Ahmad Badawi of Malaysia, who became prime minister in late 2003, said the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations, known as Asean, must continue the steps toward economic integration that began after the recovery from the Asian economic crisis of 1997.
 Mr. Yudhoyono, making his debut at an Asean meeting, was blunt. 
 ''Our main challenge today is to deepen our economic integration,'' he said. ''Why? Two words: India and China.'' 
 He added, ''Indonesia is pledging to accelerate our efforts with other Asean members to deepen this economic integration.''
 The two leaders spoke at a meeting of business leaders set up as a prologue to the gathering for heads of state, which opens Monday.
 The dominant theme for the association has become how to handle China, which along with Japan, South Korea and India sends representatives to the annual session. The fear of being overcome by China has driven the previously somnolent group to make more vigorous moves toward economic integration, with some talking of an eventual pan-Asian economic community resembling the European Union.
 A major agreement to be signed here is a trade pact between China and Asean intended to remove tariffs on merchandise by 2010, the year set by China and Asean to establish a free trade area.
 Asean has said it will establish an economic community by 2020.
 But in many respects the Asean-China relationship appears to be the faster moving one. Asean and China will also sign an accord on mechanisms for settling trade disputes.
 Trade between China and the members of Asean soared to $84 billion in the first nine months of this year, a 35 percent increase from the same period last year, the Chinese vice president, Wu Yi, said at a recent China-Asean expo. At its current pace, the trade between China and Asean could soon match the $120 billion in annual trade between Asean and the United States.
 Mr. Yudhoyono said he wanted to see Southeast Asia transform itself into a single market and a single production base.
 Mr. Badawi, the Malaysian leader, called for what he described as a three-pronged approach to enhance the region's competitiveness. ''First we must continue to deepen our regional economic integration,'' he said. ''Second, we must expand our linkages with our major trading partners. Third, we must promote the development of subregional initiatives.''
 In talking about subregional plans, Mr. Badawi was referring to the disparities among Asean's six core members -- Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines and Brunei -- and the poorer newcomers, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar, formerly Burma.
 The leaders of Australia and New Zealand were invited to join Asean's summit meeting for the first time to start negotiations for their own free trade accords with Asean.
 But before arriving here on Sunday, Prime Minister John Howard of Australia showed again the nature of the complicated relationship between Australia and its Asian neighbors. He said he would not sign an Asean nonaggression accord that Asean had asked Australia to sign. China signed it last year.
 Australia's foreign minister, Alexander Downer, said the accord would interfere with Australia's alliance with the United States and would prevent Australia from speaking out on human rights issues.
 The leading Australian newspaper, The Age, said Mr. Howard's attitude was such an affront to Asean that it would be probably be the last time that Australia would be invited to the summit meeting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (69%); TRENDS (67%); TRADE DISPUTES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%) Association of Southeast Asian Nations

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

PERSON: SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (90%); WU YI (58%) Jane Perlez; Susilo Bambang (Pres) Yudhoyono; Abdullah Ahmad (Prime Min) Badawi

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (99%); ASIA (99%); CHINA (98%); MALAYSIA (96%); INDIA (94%); INDONESIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Indonesia; Malaysia; Japan; South Korea ; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; India; China

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004



633 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: City Humor Of an Ad Irks Some In Catskills

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

DATELINE: KERHONKSON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
It was a tiny advertisement, 3 inches by 3 inches, buried on the bottom of the back page of The Blue Stone Press, a twice-monthly newspaper that serves this economically depressed Catskills town.
 But the ad, announcing the availability of some long-boarded-up old storefronts on withered-up Main Street, was not the kind that usually shows up in the local paper, soberly promoting vinyl siding and auto-body repair. In tiny type, this one sounded like a little manifesto, written by a postmodern comic. It defiantly described Kerhonkson as a ''real town -- not like some of the other quaint towns around these parts.'' Anyone wanting to open a restaurant in one of the storefronts should leave the tofu behind, it warned. ''And if you want to open a coffee shop,'' it continued, ''don't make us learn new words for small, medium and large is all we're saying.''
 ''Jews, Blacks, Italians (and all others) Welcome,'' it ended, and then, as if it had not been provocative enough, added, ''No Artists or Canadians.'' 
 After the ad ran in late October , the angry calls immediately began coming into the offices of The Blue Stone Press. The company that placed the ad called itself Kerhonkson General, but it was really placed by Harris Silver, the president of a young New York City advertising agency called Think Tank 3, which has created sleek campaigns for products like Georgi Vodka and several environmentally friendly causes.
 Mr. Silver, 39, who has owned a weekend house in Kerhonkson for years, got together with some friends recently and bought the three empty stores and some vacant apartments, with dreams of helping to revive the faded town, which has a population of about 1,700 and is probably best known as the onetime home of Clayton Bates, aka Peg Leg Bates, the one-legged tap dancer.
 The problem for the rejuvenators was getting attention for their cause. The answer, they concluded, was with the sharp-edged tools of marketing today: sarcasm and biting humor, with a hint of a point, but only enough to keep people guessing at the advertiser's real motives.
 In an interview, Mr. Silver said he was partly serious about not wanting to see the town, in Ulster County about two hours from New York, become gentrified in a way that he feels many other upstate towns like New Paltz, Kingston and Beacon (not to mention many New York City neighborhoods) have been, in which artists, musicians and other creative types seem to be followed inexorably by antiques stores, overpriced shops, soaring real estate prices and then, of course, a Starbucks. In fact, the ad was largely a swipe at New Paltz, 19 miles away, with its tofu-loving restaurants, hordes of artists, and, now, a Starbucks on Main Street. 
 ''We thought we don't really need somebody here who's just going to be putting up paintings on the wall,'' Mr. Silver said. ''We need real businesses. We need people who are going to come here and sell socks and underwear.'' He added that his intention was to ''set this place apart and try to let people know it has its own identity.''
 But he added that mostly, the ad -- which also took oblique swipes at wine bars and expensive clothiers -- was designed simply to get a rise out of people and to draw attention to itself. And if an art gallery wanted to rent a storefront, he would still probably sign a lease in a New York second.
 ''Obviously, we're not anti-artist or anti-Canadian,'' he said emphatically, adding, ''We just threw in the Canadian thing because we thought it was funny.'' (Mr. Silver has repeated his ''No Artists or Canadians'' joke in big posters he has taped to the windows of his storefronts.)
 But many longtime residents of Kerhonkson didn't find anything funny about the ad, which touched many of the raw nerves of economic-revival efforts upstate, seeming to pit art against commerce, weekenders against locals and urban sensibilities against rural ones. The ad provoked such anger (one caller declared it anti-Semitic, despite the fact that it specifically welcomes Jews) that the newspaper has declined to run it again, at least without some wording changes.
 David O'Halloran, a longtime resident and owner of the Pine Grove Dude Ranch -- a family vacation resort that is one of the area's biggest employers -- said ''the last thing we need to do is pour gasoline'' on the kinds of tensions that constantly arise about how to revive the upstate towns and who gets to decide.
 Mr. Silver is ''the wrong person speaking for the people who've lived here for a long time,'' he said, and added that, as far as he was concerned, artists and artisans were ''the growth industry in our community.''
 ''Look at Kingston,'' he said. ''Kingston is alive again because of the artistic growth there.''
 Mr. O'Halloran was not the only one angry. Mr. Silver -- who, probably just to be more provocative, says he likes to think of himself the unelected mayor of Kerhonkson -- was bombarded with angry e-mail messages, including one from a man who identified himself only as a manual laborer and 20-year Kerhonkson resident.
 ''Do your brothers-in-flannel up here who read these ads realize that your thinly veiled 'Think Tank' is really a N.Y.C.-based ad agency with a slick and pseudo-intellectual Web site peddling freshman philosophy about, among other things, art?'' the e-mailer wrote. ''Get real, you self-important fakes. I'd be willing to bet you drink fancy coffee drinks every day. In short, you have no authority to speak as one of us, and no business pretending to be from the other side of the tracks.''
 But Mr. Silver has found some local defenders, like Irene Rocha, a former Brooklynite who owns property near Mr. Silver's and thinks someone has to fight the resistance to change in the community. ''I think a lot of people are just afraid of the New York City mindset creeping in here,'' she said. John Whiteman, a New York State crop adviser who has lived in the area since 1986, sees Mr. Silver as an entrepreneur willing to take risks that locals are not taking for the sake of the town.
 ''If people take offense to it,'' he said of the ad, ''well, I think they need to find something in their lives to take up some more of their time.''
 He added, cheerfully: ''I was up in Canada this weekend, and I didn't see any major protests going on up there about this.''
 In the end, the moral of the story seems to be that provocative, ironic, New York-style advertising is quite effective, even on the back page of a small, rural paper: Mr. Silver said that two of the storefronts have been rented and there is interest in the third, keeping alive his hope of a brave new Kerhonkson.
 ''This might be the hardest working small-space ad in all of advertising,'' he said. ''In my wildest dreams I never expected anything like this.''
 One of the people interested in renting a storefront is the editor of the local newspaper, Chris Hewitt, who also runs a letterpress business and needs a home for it. But in an e-mail message he sent to Mr. Silver, even he was not quite sure whether he was eligible to participate in the potential rejuvenation of his hometown.
 ''I have to tell you, as a Kerhonkson resident, beer lover, coffee drinker, artist, Canadian, Italian, tofu eater and hard worker,'' he wrote, ''I'm a little confused about whether I qualify or not.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Harris Silver, an adman with a weekend house in Kerhonkson, N.Y, at an empy town store he is trying to sell. (Photo by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Harris Silver in Kerhonkson, N.Y., outside an empty store of his that is to be a restaurant, with Stella Pugliese, a town resident who defends Mr. Silver's renewal efforts
 right, David O'Halloran, who doesn't. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RESTAURANTS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (68%); HOME PRICES (68%); DANCERS (66%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004



634 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2051 words

HEADLINE: L.I. Clash on Immigrants Is Gaining Political Force

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Everywhere Steve Levy went last year in his successful campaign for Suffolk County executive, he said, he heard the same complaints. A new wave of Hispanic immigrants had swept Long Island, and many residents were furious about the overcrowded homes and lines of day laborers they saw in their towns. They told Mr. Levy they wanted action.
 This month, Mr. Levy floated a proposal to deputize some Suffolk County police officers, giving them the power to detain people found to be in the United States illegally after being taken into custody on other charges. Right now, Suffolk police and corrections officers say, they are prohibited from asking immigrants whether they are in the country legally. Mr. Levy's proposal, which he later amended, was met by objections from the police unions. 
 Mr. Levy said his intent was to fight crime by focusing the effort on criminals like gang members, not ordinary immigrants. But advocacy groups and residents of Suffolk and Nassau Counties say the proposal is a sign of the times. They say the issue of illegal immigration is rapidly gathering political force in Long Island's patchwork of historically white suburban hamlets, and as the complaints grow, politicians are responding with get-tough rhetoric, crackdowns and new laws. 
 ''Public opinion has changed,'' said Sue Grant, one of several Farmingville residents who rise each morning to stand on street corners and demonstrate against the day laborers in their community. ''More and more people are coming forward and saying, 'I'm sick of this.' They don't want this anymore.''
 It is the latest knot in Long Island's wrenching struggle to digest the thousands of Hispanic immigrants -- many of them day laborers -- who have arrived in the past decade and at a record pace in the last three years, drawn by jobs in construction and landscaping and other blue-collar work. One result is a commensurate strain on public services like schools, garbage collection and sewer systems in an area where residents pay some of the highest taxes in the country.
 Communities across the nation -- from Mesa, Ariz., to Hoover, Ala., to Freehold, N.J. -- have faced similar struggles. Day laborers have been shut out and demonstrated against, and have become the targets of political campaigns. There has been tension in many villages and cities and violence in isolated spots. But observers and local politicians said that rarely has the fight seemed so bitter or raged so long as on Long Island, where violence has erupted in recent years and Mr. Levy's proposal is just one of many with support from politicians and residents.
 Long Island's stratified hamlets and villages, its history of segregation by race and by economic status, its need for cheap laborers to do work rejected by others and its lack of rental housing have set a unique stage for this fight, experts said.
 ''People came here in the 50's and 60's and early 70's thinking they were getting away from the problems of the city,'' said Stefan Krieger, who runs Hofstra University's Housing Rights Clinic. ''In the city, with diversity, you celebrate it. Out here, not at all. You see different-color people on the street and for some reason, there's some dissonance.''
 That dissonance is growing louder, its tone more varied. While some communities like Glen Cove and Freeport have arranged for hiring halls for the day laborers who line street corners, others have roundly rejected the idea.
 Farmingdale has stepped up traffic enforcement to discourage contractors from picking up day laborers, and several village officials say they are planning to demolish apartments that they say are chock full of immigrants. They argue that the buildings are rife with code violations and not worth preserving. 
 The Town of Brookhaven has set up an informal task force to investigate code violations and complaints about homes crowded with day laborers. A town councilwoman, Geraldine Esposito, said she was searching for ways to tighten the town's Neighborhood Preservation Act, further limiting the number of people in a home. ''We're trying to solve a problem that's almost unsolvable for the town,'' she said. ''Where are these men going to go? They should go back home to where their home is. There is no pot of gold here unless they can do it legally.''
 Campaigns for village and town offices have ramped up their rhetoric, promising to do everything possible to get day laborers off the streets. 
 Local officials say their actions and ideas are necessary, fair and colorblind. They said they are not singling out Hispanic immigrants, but are trying to break up the networks of overcrowded homes, unlicensed contractors and absentee landlords that exploit day laborers.
 ''It's been ignored, totally ignored,'' said Mr. Levy, a Democrat who was elected on a platform of fiscal austerity and better management of the county, on the eastern end of Long Island, and its roughly 1.5 million residents. ''It's led to workers being exploited, houses being overcrowded and legitimate businesses going under. There's an undercurrent of frustration within the majority of Suffolk residents.''
 But laborers and advocacy groups say the new policies and aggressive rhetoric are coded attempts to drive Latino immigrants underground or off Long Island. They see parallels between policies denying black families homes in Levittown after World War II and a proposed law in Suffolk County asking federal officials to enforce immigration laws.
 ''It's like we're going backwards,'' said Irma Solis, an organizer at the Workplace Project, a Hispanic advocacy group in Farmingville. ''It's another wave of attacks against the immigrant community.''
 Paul Tonna of Huntington, a Republican member of the Suffolk County Legislature, is a veteran of these wars. He defended day laborers, tried unsuccessfully to pass legislation to set up a hiring hall for them and earned many enemies in the process. Now leaving office because of term limits, Mr. Tonna says he has been asking himself, why Long Island?
 One reason experts cite is persistent segregation on Long Island, named the country's most segregated suburb in a 2002 study by David Rusk, a consultant who analyzes suburban segregation patterns. In the 1950's and 60's, discriminatory practices by lenders, real estate agents and builders steered minorities and whites to different communities. 
 Today, there are villages -- like Garden City and Hempstead, Copiague and Amityville -- that sit next to each other, but have nearly opposite racial compositions. 
 Still, Mr. Tonna said, ''It's not just bigotry. It's an economic issue.'' 
 Most of the problems bubbled up in heavily white, blue-collar communities -- places where new immigrants, many of them upwardly mobile, could barely get a foothold. In wealthy East Hampton, the quarrels over immigration and code violations are not centered in the wealthy beachfront enclaves but in Springs, a middle-class neighborhood.
 Long Island's Hispanic population grew by about 70 percent in a decade, according to the 2000 census. Between 2000 and 2003, it grew even faster, with the number of Hispanic residents of Suffolk jumping by 20 percent. That translates into an average of 10,387 people per year, compared with about 6,500 people per year during the 1990's.
 Many newcomers are here illegally or on temporary visas, but there is no definitive data on their numbers.
 Immigrants arrived in droves in relatively small communities, making it impossible for residents to ignore their new neighbors. Some 80 percent of Long Islanders own their homes, and there are few rental apartments, so laborers are often crammed into single-family homes.
 And thanks to the island's relatively weak labor unions, they can find work by standing on street corners, Mr. Tonna said.
 Some towns took the change in stride; others rejected it outright, with angry residents attending town and county legislative meetings to complain that the influx of immigrants has brought noise violations, littering, people drinking and urinating in public and driveways crammed with cars. They videotaped crowds of day laborers and staged demonstrations.
 The tension first flared into violence in 2000, when two men posing as contractors kidnapped two Farmingville day laborers and beat them with a crowbar. In July 2003, a group of teenagers set fire to the house of a Mexican family in Farmingville.
 Governments have responded to residents' complaints with bills intended either to accommodate the immigrants or to clamp down on them. There does not appear to be any particular geographical pattern to the measures. One community's anxiety does not necessarily seem to spread. Officials from various towns have proposed limiting the number of people in a house, banning the hiring of day laborers off the street and requiring identification from anyone using a village park.
 But few ideas over the years have drawn as much fire as the one Mr. Levy first broached publicly about three weeks ago to give Suffolk police officers the authority to detain illegal immigrants taken into custody for a variety of offenses. 
 After a meeting last week with representatives of Hispanic groups, Mr. Levy changed his plan, proposing instead to give corrections officers broader powers in enforcing immigration laws and access to federal databases. He said he would also ask Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials to assign three federal agents to the county to help identify and deport illegal immigrants in police custody.
 If his plan is approved by federal officials, Mr. Levy said, the corrections officers would be trained by the Department of Homeland Security. They would not pluck immigrants off the street or sweep neighborhoods, he said, but would keep those charged with a crime in jail rather than allowing them to post bail.
 Of the 23,150 arrests made by Suffolk police last year, 2,349 were of noncitizens. Mr. Levy said his proposal would increase the number of inmates who are handed over to federal immigration authorities, currently fewer than a dozen each year. His original plan was opposed by the Suffolk Police Benevolent Association, whose president, Jeff Frayler, said it would chill the relationship between immigrants and the police and make illegal immigrants less likely to report crimes. Mr. Levy said the plan would not apply to people whose illegal status was discovered while they were reporting crimes. 
 Despite criticism from Mr. Levy's own Hispanic Advisory Board, Mr. Frayler said, the county executive tapped a wealth of public support just by making the proposal.
 ''I think it's much larger than anyone could have believed,'' he said, ''and Levy's catering to that crew.''
 This summer, Mr. Levy ordered a police sting operation to catch unlicensed contractors, many of whom hire day laborers. He said that during the next phase, police would ask contractors to produce federal I-9 forms, proving that their employees are legally authorized to work.
 The new mayor of Farmingdale, George Graf, whose campaign literature attacked the former incumbent, Joseph Trudden -- accusing him of allowing ''our streets to be overrun with day laborers hanging out on our corners'' -- has stepped up fines against drivers who stop on Conklin Street, formerly a popular spot to pick up day laborers. Mr. Graf said the crowds have thinned as officers have issued tickets with $100 fines.
 The new administration has also rekindled a plan to spend $6 million to $14 million to acquire six acres of land on Secatogue Avenue, where many Hispanic residents live in decrepit apartments near the Long Island Rail Road tracks, raze the buildings and replace them with condominiums for the elderly. ''It will be before the public in the first quarter'' of 2005, said the village attorney, Greg Carman. ''This is going to move.''
 Residents of the apartment complex, which is privately owned, said that their ceilings leak, that their floors are caving in and that fetid smells drift up from the basement, but that they have few other places to move. Many were suspicious of the village's motives.
 ''It's very hard to rent a house without papers,'' said Ana Maria Cabrera, 22, who works in a shoe store in Northport. ''If they are moving us from one place to another, it obviously means they don't want us around.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Code enforcement officers in Farmingdale, N.Y., patrol for drivers who stop illegally to pick up day laborers. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Dave Drew is among many Farmingville residents who have taken to the streets to protest illegal immigrants. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart/Map: ''A New Wave of Immigration''Long Island has had an influx of immigrants, most of them Hispanic.Maps of Long Island in 1990 and 2000 showing the percentage of foreign born residents by census tract.(Source by Queens College Department of Sociology, based on Census 2000 data)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); REFUGEES (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (61%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens; Election Issues; Hispanic-Americans; Labor; Immigration and Refugees; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Patrick Healy; Steve (County Exec) Levy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Long Island (NY); Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004



635 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: IRAN BACKS AWAY FROM A DEMAND ON A-BOMB FUEL

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Nazila Fathi contributed reporting from Tehran for this article, and Steven R. Weisman from Washington.

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
Iran on Sunday backed off a demand to operate uranium enrichment equipment that could be used either for energy purposes or in a nuclear bomb-making project, European and Iranian officials said.
 The Iranian retreat appeared to salvage a nuclear agreement reached Nov. 15 between Iran and France, Britain and Germany to freeze all of Iran's uranium enrichment, conversion and reprocessing activities.
 It also paves the way for the 35 countries that make up the ruling board of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the Vienna-based United Nations nuclear monitoring body, to pass a resolution that will be only mildly critical of Iran's nuclear program.
 Such a resolution, expected to be passed Monday, is certain to disappoint the Bush administration, which is convinced that despite Iran's denials, it has a covert program to build nuclear bombs, not simply to produce energy. The administration had wanted much tougher language in the resolution. 
 Iran's suspected nuclear ambition has become a leading source of worry in the Bush administration, which has said it will not allow Iran's Islamic republic, with its avowed hostility to the United States, to attain nuclear weapons or even develop a comprehensive peaceful nuclear energy program. In Washington, reports of a new accord with Iran brought expressions of caution from the Bush administration, which has been skeptical about the European efforts to negotiate with Iran.
 ''We've seen this kind of commitment from Iran before,'' a State Department official said. ''We'll be looking to see whether they stick with what they agree to do. In the past they haven't, so follow-up is very important.''
 The retreat came in the form of a letter from Iran on Sunday to the International Atomic Energy Agency. In the letter, Iran withdrew its demand to operate 20 centrifuges -- uranium enrichment machines -- for research and development purposes. 
 ''Iran will permit the I.A.E.A. to place these centrifuges under agency surveillance,'' said Hossein Mousavian, the chief Iranian negotiator, in a telephone interview from Vienna. ''Iran will not conduct any testing.''
 Asked specifically whether the machines would be turned off, as the Europeans have demanded, Mr. Mousavian said, ''We say Iran will not conduct any testing,'' adding that the matter of Iran's desire to continue research will be discussed when Iran and the European countries begin talks in the coming weeks on possible economic, technological and political incentives for Iran under the European agreement.
 After the letter was received, the three European countries formally submitted a draft resolution on Iran to the United Nations agency, said Mark Gwozdecky, the agency's spokesman.
 The I.A.E.A. is expected to certify Monday that Iran has frozen its entire program as defined by the agreement with the Europeans.
 That will allow the agency's board to pass the resolution on Iran on Monday as well. Unlike the United Nations Security Council, where 5 of the 15 member countries have veto power, the I.A.E.A.'s board generally operates by consensus.
 The Bush administration has been continually frustrated in its efforts to persuade the atomic energy agency to punish Iran for its nuclear activities. The three European countries have rejected a flurry of American proposals for a harshly worded resolution against Iran.
 The breakthrough between the Europeans and Iran came after Iran suggested a change in the resolution that would more specifically reflect the positive step Iran was taking in suspending its enrichment program, both Mr. Mousavian and a senior European official said. In exchange, Iran abandoned its demand to operate the centrifuges for research.
 Mr. Mousavian said the 20 centrifuge machines would not be sealed but placed under camera surveillance, a face-saving move that the I.A.E.A. said would be acceptable in terms of its monitoring capacity.
 In another face-saving gesture, the Iranians said in their letter to the agency on Sunday that there would be no ''testing,'' rather than no ''research and development.''
 But a senior European official involved in the negotiations said that under the new arrangement, ''The machines will not rotate an inch.''
 Despite its softer language, the resolution to be adopted Monday calls for continuing investigations into sensitive aspects of Iran's nuclear program.
 The resolution also mentions ''many breaches of Iran's obligations to comply'' with international nuclear safeguards but notes Iran has taken ''corrective measures'' since beginning to disclose parts of its atomic program in October 2003.
 Mr. Mousavian said Iran won a crucial change to reflect the fact that the freeze of its enrichment program was ''not legally binding.''
 As a signer of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, Iran has the legal right to enrich uranium, and the Iranian delegation made the point repeatedly during the negotiations that its country's suspension of its uranium enrichment program was voluntary.
 In Tehran on Sunday, Hamid Reza Assefi, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, said Iran hoped the issue would be resolved at the atomic energy agency. Nonetheless, he struck a defiant tone.
 ''We are not worried about going to the Security Council,'' he said. ''It is not the end of the world. But we would prefer it be sorted out in the framework of the agency.''
 There is no national security debate inside Iran that is more intense than over the country's nuclear program, from the highest levels of government to Parliament and the street.
 Iranians of all political stripes hold fast to the principle of Iran's sovereign right to conduct whatever activities it deems necessary to develop a peaceful program to produce energy, and the agreement with the Europeans has been wildly unpopular inside Iran.
 Iran had agreed in negotiations with the Europeans two weeks ago to suspend all uranium enrichment activities. But that agreement was put in jeopardy last week when Iran demanded that it be allowed to operate centrifuges for research purposes. That demand came in two letters to the International Atomic Energy Agency from Iran's atomic energy agency, whose hard-liners oppose any concessions to outsiders.
 But Iran misread the Europeans. At first, the Iranian delegation tried to argue that the centrifuge issue was only a technical matter. Iranian negotiators pointed out that after Iran had reached its first nuclear deal with the Europeans in October 2003, it continued to operate 10 centrifuges for research purposes and both the Europeans and the agency went along.
 ''With that history and everyone's agreement, we couldn't imagine that a few centrifuges would become a worldwide issue this time,'' Mr. Mousavian said.
 But that first deal with the Europeans fell apart. Iran decided that the Europeans were stalling on delivering promised incentives and interpreted the agreement broadly to continue some uranium enrichment-related activities.
 The Europeans were accused of naivete by some hawks in the Bush administration, and have become less trusting of Iran. This time around, the Europeans negotiated a more precise deal and took an uncompromising no-exceptions line when the centrifuge issue was raised. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); CENTRIFUGES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); RELIGION (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (62%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: Elaine Sciolino; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (73%) Iran; France; Great Britain; Germany; Iran

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004



636 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Blessedly Short but Not at All Short-Shrifted

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
There are five words guaranteed to gladden the heart of even a seriously jaded theatergoer. Particularly a seriously jaded one: ''There will be no intermission.''
 Tears of gratitude prick at the corners of my eyes even as I type that hallowed phrase. Not that I'm a jaded theatergoer, mind you. A critic, jaded? An indefensible cliche. 
 As in a Harold Pinter play, subtext is everything here. It's not the actual lack of an intermission that is the issue. What's not to like about a chance for a bathroom break, a Coke or a smoke, if you're so inclined?
 No, it's the underlying message that soothes the soul. And it can be translated variously. You can have that second martini at Angus McIndoe after the show. The baby sitter can go home early. No fisticuffs necessary to secure a taxi on Eighth Avenue tonight. No need to TiVO Jon Stewart.
 Put more generically, and festively, it signals, ''You're outta here in 90 minutes or less, baby!''
 The fall season has not been rich in fully rewarding theatrical experiences. But when looked at from the perspective of the short-play lover -- which is to say, most frequent theatergoers, and, O.K., fine, virtually all critics -- it's been a never-ending feast. Good, bad or indifferent, one-act plays have been flooding the city's stages.
 Two of the three plays revived on Broadway this fall, ''Twelve Angry Men'' and '''Night, Mother,'' both clock in at about an hour and a half sans intermission. (The third, ''Reckless,'' probably could have and should have.) The season's lone new Broadway musical, ''Brooklyn,'' boasts the same running time. And while the pileup of solo shows filling big theaters this fall has justly caused consternation, there is a silver lining: solo shows are almost a sure bet to fit the 90-minutes-or-less format, an hour and a half being enough time for a tete-a-tete with almost any performer. (Yes, you're a delight, Mario Cantone, but two and a half is pushing it.)
 Off Broadway, you have to search pretty hard to find a traditional two-act play. All three of John Patrick Shanley's plays produced this season come in at 90 minutes or less (''Sailor's Song'' and ''Danny and the Deep Blue Sea'' are both little more than an hour; his superb ''Doubt, a Parable'' is somewhat longer). Also beating the 90-minute clock are the new Sam Shepard play, ''The God of Hell,'' the New Group's ''Sin (A Cardinal Deposed),'' Heather Raffo's ''Nine Parts of Desire,'' ''A Number'' by Caryl Churchill at New York Theater Workshop, Lincoln Center Theater's ''Belle Epoque,'' the revival of Paula Vogel's ''Baltimore Waltz'' and Neil LaBute's ''Fat Pig.'' 
 Everywhere you look, happy theatergoers are hitting the street in time for a reasonable dinner reservation.
 Lest I be accused of celebrating brevity for brevity's sake alone, let me point out that the advantages of the short play are not merely practical. Brevity is famously the soul of wit, just for starters -- even if the fall season is short on short comedies. (Why, in heaven's name, is Larry Shue's nonsensical comedy ''The Foreigner'' a grinding two and a half?) But a more general aesthetic argument can also be made for the superiority of the one-act, intermissionless format. It tends to create a purer, more intense theatrical experience. Immersion in the playwright's world is easier to effect if that world is not banished for a 15-minute break just when it begins to hold our imagination. Intermission returns us to the mundane world we are always hoping to escape, or at least engage with in a more heightened way, through art. Re-entry is required, and it is not always easy.
 The intermission-free format is, of course, nothing new. It dates all the way to theater's beginnings in ancient Greece. But as theater evolved from being a communal ritual to serving a more generalized social function in the Western world, and playwrights wandered from the models of the classical theater, plays became longer and breaks became both necessary and desirable.
 By the 19th century at least, playwrights were structuring their writing to send audiences out into the foyer with a dramatic bang. The search for a good first- or second-act curtain line continued well into the 20th. It was not until the non-commercial Off Broadway movement in the 1950's and 60's took theater in new directions that the hegemony of the standard two- or even three-act play began to be shaken. The wealth of short plays on New York stages this fall suggests that the intermissionless format may now be the preferred model for new generations of writers.
 Leading the way is Ms. Churchill. A condensed format has become central to the writing of this indispensable British playwright, whose fiercely inventive imagination casts such a seductive spell that to break it with an intermission seems a violation. Ms. Churchill's work has grown even stronger as it has grown shorter. There is something beautifully reduced about her recent work: ''Far Away, '' ''A Number'' and the two plays paired in ''Blue Heart'' all represent a theatrical intelligence delivering meaning in a distilled form. The economy of her writing has become inseparable from its power. 
 It may not be coincidence that the short format returned to prominence in the theater as the 20th century progressed. The phenomenon may have something to do with the rise of film as the dominant medium for communal entertainment.
 As theater's role as a popular artistic medium has been marginalized, it has been freed from the need to accommodate audiences' desire to combine socializing and the consumption of entertainment. Most serious theatergoers today aren't just looking for a fun night out with friends or family; they are also looking for something a trip to the movies can't -- or won't -- provide.
 Oddly enough, as plays seem to have grown shorter, movies have ballooned. Hollywood doesn't appear to be heeding the conventional wisdom about the American population's decreasing attention span. Over the last couple of decades, the average running time of a movie seems to have inched upward from that appealing benchmark of 90 minutes. Now, even the most formulaic action pictures run a full two hours, if not more. Blame the auteur theory, if you like, which enshrined the director as the sole author of a movie and led to the consolidation of power in directors' hands.
 Perhaps it's time theater producers began more aggressively exploiting this disparity. They could promote their shows' running time as a selling point. ''Half as long as 'Alexander!''' ''Guaranteed to be shorter than a Steven Spielberg movie!'' 
 Time is money, it is said, and audiences may be willing to pay a premium for a comfortably brief aesthetic experience. Who has not emerged from a dispiritingly bad -- and long -- night at a movie theater or Broadway house willing to pay a price, any price, to retrieve the two or three hours of life you just squandered so recklessly?


GRAPHIC: Photos: BEATING THE CLOCK -- Top row: Adam Rothenberg, left, and Rosemarie DeWitt in ''Danny and the Deep Blue Sea''
Mark Povinelli, center, in ''Belle Epoque''
middle: Frank Wood, left, and Randy Quaid in ''The God of Hell''
Heather Raffo in ''Nine Parts of Desire''
bottom: Brenda Blethyn, left, and Edie Falco in '''Night Mother''
''Twelve Angry Men,'' with Robert Clohessy, left, Philip Bosco, Michael Mastro, Mark Blum and Boyd Gaines. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times except ''Nine Parts of Desire,'' middle right, by Joan Marcus)(pg. E1)
 Eden Espinosa in ''Brooklyn the Musical,'' above, and Dallas Roberts, below left, and Sam Shepard in ''A Number,'' by Caryl Churchill. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); MUSIC (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004



637 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: You Can't Get Here From There

BYLINE: By Joseph S. Nye Jr.. 
Joseph S. Nye Jr., a professor of government at Harvard, is the author, most recently, of ''The Power Game: A Washington Novel.''

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
Last year, the number of foreign students at American colleges and universities fell for the first time since 1971. Recent reports show that total foreign student enrollment in our 2,700 colleges and universities dropped 2.4 percent, with a much sharper loss at large research institutions. Two-thirds of the 25 universities with the most foreign students reported major enrollment declines. 
 The costs to the American economy are significant. Educating foreign students is a $13 billion industry. Moreover, the United States does not produce enough home-grown doctoral students in science and engineering to meet our needs. The shortfall is partly made up by the many foreign students who stay here after earning their degrees. 
 Equally important, however, are the foreign students who return home and carry American ideas with them. They add to our soft power, the ability to win the hearts and minds of others. As Secretary of State Colin Powell put it, ''I can think of no more valuable asset to our country than the friendship of future world leaders who have been educated here.'' 
 One cause of the recent decline has been increased competition from universities elsewhere, particularly in English-speaking countries like Britain and Australia. But most observers attribute our loss to a self-inflicted wound. Ever since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, getting an American visa has been a nightmare of red tape, and the hassle has deterred many foreign student applicants. 
 Horror stories abound, like the Harvard postdoctoral student in biochemistry who went home to Beijing for his father's funeral, then waited five months for permission to return. And China, of course, had nothing to do with the attacks on Sept. 11. 
 In an effort to exclude a dangerous few, we are keeping out the helpful many. Consular officials know that they face career-threatening punishment if they are too lax, but face little sanction if they are too strict. Add to those perverse incentives, the need to coordinate with the extensive bureaucracy of the Department of Homeland Security, and you have a perfect recipe for inertia. More resources can help speed the process, but little will happen until Congress and the Bush administration make the problem a higher priority. 
 The admission of foreign students to the United States has been controversial in the past. During the cold war, the Eisenhower administration negotiated a student exchange program with the Soviet Union. Opponents argued that our Soviet enemies would misuse the student visas to send spies who would steal our scientific and industrial secrets. That did occur, but it was not the most important effect of the program. 
 In the first exchange in 1958, one of the students was a young Communist Party official named Aleksandr Yakovlev. He was strongly influenced by his studies of pluralism with David Truman, the Columbia political scientist. Mr. Yakovlev eventually went home to become the director of an important institute, a Politburo member, and one of the key liberalizing influences on Mikhail Gorbachev. A fellow student, Oleg Kalugin, who became a high official in the KGB, said of the visa program: ''Exchanges were a Trojan horse for the Soviet Union. They played a tremendous role in the erosion of the Soviet system. They kept infecting more and more people over the years.''
 Starting in the 1950's, more than 110 American colleges and universities participated; some 50,000 Soviet academics, writers, journalists, officials and artists visited from 1958 to 1988. Imagine if the visa hawks had prevented Mr. Yakovlev and his like from entering the United States.
 Balancing security risks against the political and economic benefits of admitting foreign students has always been a problem. It is now doubly difficult in a post-Sept. 11 world, but the recent enrollment decline suggest we have not yet got the balance right. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (95%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (94%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORISM (87%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (61%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%) Colleges and Universities; Foreign Students; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Visas; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: Joseph S Jr Nye

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (54%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004



638 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: The Pell Grants

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Undermining the Pell Grants'' (editorial, Nov. 25):
 The failure of Congress and the administration to increase Pell grants and to prevent the reduction of grants to more than a million eligible students is bad public policy.
 Unless those whose access to higher education is limited by economic and life circumstances can gain access and thereby move up into the middle class, where they will have a real stake in the viability and success of our society, the stability of our democracy will be threatened by an ever-widening gap between the ''haves'' and the ''have nots.''
 Restricting instead of widening access is shortsighted in the extreme.

Stephen R. Greenwald
President, Metropolitan College of New York
New York, Nov. 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TUITION FEES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); BUDGETS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Colleges and Universities; Pell Grants ; Tuition ; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Stephen R Greenwald

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004



639 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Arts, Briefly; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 743 words

BYLINE: Compiled by Ben Sisario

 BODY:

Political Films in Amsterdam and Dubai
 The city of Dubai opens its first international film festival next week with many controversial political movies that will be seen by Arab audiences for the first time. The six-day festival, beginning next Monday, has 75 films from Arab and South Asian countries, including ''Control Room,'' the documentary on Al Jazeera, the Qatar-based Arabic news network, and ''The Hamburg Cell,'' a look at members of the group behind the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks who lived in Germany. Among the lighter fare is Steven Soderbergh's ''Ocean's Twelve,'' with appearances of Hollywood celebrities scheduled, like the producer Harvey Weinstein and the actors Sarah Michelle Gellar and Morgan Freeman. ... In Amsterdam, which has been punctuated by ethnic clashes since a Dutch filmmaker was killed by a suspected Islamic militant earlier this month, a Dutch film that addresses Islamic radicalism in Indonesia has won the top prize at the International Documentary Film Festival, The Associated Press reported. The film, ''Stand Van De Maan'' (''Shape of the Moon''), above, directed by Leonard Retel Helmrich, follows an Indonesian Christian woman who struggles against unemployment and her country's growing Islamic fundamentalism. At least 20 Muslim sites in the Netherlands have been attacked since Theo van Gogh, who made a film about mistreatment of Muslim women, was shot and stabbed to death in Amsterdam on Nov. 2.

Too Bright a Building
 The new Frank Gehry-designed Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, right, is just too brilliant. That is the conclusion, anyway, of a new report to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, which will decide whether to sandblast portions of the building's shimmering facade of stainless steel to reduce its glare on motorists. Although no traffic accidents are known to have been caused by the building's reflected light, consultants found that the rays irritate drivers and cause temperatures on nearby sidewalks to rise as high as 138 degrees, The Daily News of Los Angeles reported. The county supervisors are to decide on the sandblasting in January; as a temporary solution, a gray mesh fabric was placed over one section.

Welsh to Direct Film
 Irvine Welsh, the acerbic Scottish novelist whose book ''Trainspotting'' was adapted into the acclaimed 1996 film of the same name, is planning to direct a new movie, according to British news reports. Mr. Welsh is to direct ''The Man Who Walks,'' according to a producer, Mark Cousins, who runs a production company with Mr. Welsh. The writer is to begin the project when he finishes with his latest film, ''Meat Trade,'' a black comedy set in a hospital in Edinburgh.

Pop CD's in Release
 New albums tomorrow include a heavy dose of hip-hop amid the season's usual tidal wave of holiday CD's and ''American Idol'' spinoffs. The Queens-born rapper Nas releases his long-delayed ''Street's Disciple'' (Columbia), an autobiographical double album with guest spots by Busta Rhymes, Maxwell and Nas's fiancee, Kelis; it includes ''Thief's Theme,'' a single that raised eyebrows and volume knobs this summer for its sample of Iron Butterfly's 1968 proto-metal classic ''In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida.'' Jay-Z, ostensibly retired, continues to make records by collaborating with others, and his current tag-team project, ''Collision Course'' (Warner/Roc-A-Fella), is with the hard-rock band Linkin Park. Other albums in release tomorrow include ''Urban Legend'' (Atlantic) by the rapper T.I.; the ''American Idol'' star Kelly Clarkson's ''Breakaway'' (RCA); the R&B star Gerald Levert's ''Do I Speak for the World?'' (Atlantic); Simon and Garfunkel's ''Old Friends Live on Stage'' (Warner Brothers), a live album from the duo's reunion tour last year; the electronic group Dirty Vegas's ''One'' (Capitol); and the latest re-recording of Band Aid's ''Do They Know It's Christmas?,'' the British charity single for African relief recorded by an ad hoc group of British pop stars, among them Bono, Dido, Coldplay's Chris Martin and members of the Darkness, Keane and Travis.

Footnotes
 Robert Lopez and Jeff Marx, below, who wrote the music and lyrics for the multiple-Tony-winning musical ''Avenue Q,'' will play their first full public concert tonight at 7 at Birdland, the jazz club on West 44th Street. They will be performing hits from ''Avenue Q'' as well as some ''trunk songs.'' Special guests are promised -- will they be made out of felt or flesh?


GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); TERRORISM (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); FUNDAMENTALISM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); POP & ROCK (69%); DEATHS (68%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (68%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); WRITERS (64%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (62%); RECORD RELEASES (61%); HIP HOP CULTURE (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (54%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%)

PERSON: HARVEY WEINSTEIN (58%); FRANK GEHRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) NETHERLANDS (94%); GERMANY (92%); QATAR (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (88%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%); SCOTLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004



640 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; New Economy; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: The world is watching as Europe decides whether Microsoft and partners can buy a company that protects digital content.

BYLINE: By Victoria Shannon

 BODY:
A decade ago, the expression ''content is king'' was seized upon by the new-media world while it was struggling to come up with a business model. The slogan embodied the idea that drove Internet companies like America Online to team up with content companies like Time Warner to capitalize on the transition to digital communications. 
 Mostly, it hasn't worked out that way. Today, ''content is king'' is still operative, but it is playing out more quietly. It is no longer the content itself that is getting attention but the control of the content. 
 One pioneer in this field of digital-rights management, or D.R.M., is ContentGuard, a privately held 30-employee company in Bethesda, Md. The small company was spun out of the Xerox Corporation's Palo Alto Research Center, that fabled high-tech Petri dish that produced personal computer ''windows,'' ''icons,'' ''menus'' and other innovations. 
 Microsoft and Time Warner have been trying since April to get approval to buy ContentGuard for an undisclosed price. But, in an indication of just how important the world of digital rights has become, the deal has been stalled while the European Commission considers whether the purchase would give Microsoft a monopoly in the digital-rights management market. 
 It has until January to decide, making the ContentGuard deal perhaps the first controversial case to be ruled on by the new competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes -- although much of the foundation of the case was built under her predecessor, Mario Monti. This is the same organization, of course, that ordered Microsoft to cut Media Player, its ubiquitous audio and video software with built-in digital rights management, out of the Windows operating system. 
 Because music, video, photos and words are easily shared once in digital form, companies are motivated to engineer locks and keys for content. Without digital-rights management, copyrighted material can be duplicated without payment to its originator.
 Companies offering digital-rights management systems that are eventually adopted by software, hardware and consumer electronics companies worldwide could profit every time someone gains access to content, and that has investors, media companies and regulators keenly interested in how competition in the sector unfolds. 
 ContentGuard makes software that manages the owners' rights, and it developed a programming language, called extensible rights markup language, known as XrML, that is already used by Microsoft and that is being promoted in the movie industry. Competing digital-rights management systems exist, but none -- including ContentGuard's -- has yet to offer graceful solutions to all the problems that digital content creates, like how to permit limited ''fair use'' copying on all possible playback devices while preventing wholesale theft. 
 In August, the European Commission said that the purchase ''would be liable to create or strengthen Microsoft's dominant position on the market for D.R.M. solutions'' and that the concentration ''raises serious doubts'' that it is in the public's interest. But Microsoft really wants this company, so much so that last week, it and Time Warner invited a French company, Thomson, to take a one-third ownership stake in ContentGuard with them. 
 With Microsoft as a minority owner, and with a European company as part owner with voting rights, the partners hope that the commission's concerns will be eased. Thomson, in addition to owning the RCA and Technicolor brands, holds the license for MP3, the dominant technology that translates music into digital form. But the commission itself has been circumspect about what Thomson's move means to the deal. 
 Other European players have expressed concern about Microsoft. In September, Telecom Italia submitted a report to the commission that said ''it is by now clear that any D.R.M. solution for the PC environment can hardly compete with Microsoft's established platform,'' and ''from such a favorable position, Microsoft may expand its D.R.M. technology to consumer electronics products like portable devices, set-top boxes and game consoles.''
 Two consumer groups -- Privatkopie.net in Berlin and Bits of Freedom in Amsterdam -- likewise urged the commission to ''aggressively strike against anticompetitive behavior by dominant players using D.R.M. as an opportunity to capture even more of the market.''
 The European Commission's antitrust regulators have allowed mergers in this area before. In 2002, the commission approved the joint purchase of InterTrust, a digital-rights management patent holder, by Sony and Royal Philips Electronics because ''strong competitors are active in the markets'' -- including Microsoft -- and because ''D.R.M. is a developing technology.''
 As it turned out, InterTrust licensed its patent portfolio to Microsoft this year to settle a patent infringement lawsuit against the company. In one of many settlements Microsoft has negotiated this year, Microsoft paid InterTrust $440 million to resolve the dispute over 150 InterTrust claims.
 Many analysts say that a lack of adequate copyright control has held back digital commerce and contributed to piracy. But with opposition in Europe and competition worldwide -- InterTrust, Macrovision, RealNetworks, Apple Computer, Adobe Systems, Sony and others are promoting different variations on the digital-rights management theme -- it is not yet clear that Microsoft's brand of electronic lock for content will be crowned king.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDIA CONVERGENCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); DIGITAL RIGHTS MANAGEMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); ELECTRONICS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (71%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (68%); MULTIMEDIA SOFTWARE (63%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (63%); MARKUP LANGUAGES (60%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%) Computers and the Internet; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Antitrust Actions and Laws; Copyrights; Computer Software; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); XEROX CORP (69%); AOL INC (58%); PALO ALTO RESEARCH CENTER (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Commission; Microsoft Corp; Time Warner Inc; Contentguard; Thomson Sa; European Union

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); XRX (NYSE) (69%); AOL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: NEELIE KROES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (56%) EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004



641 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Justices to Hear Arguments On Shipment of Wines
The United States Supreme Court will soon hear arguments from small wineries and state regulators in a legal case that may decide whether those wineries can sell directly to out-of-state consumers, or whether they must use a state-mandated distribution system that, the vintners argue, is far too costly.
 The issue has implications for the 24 states, including New Jersey, that do not allow direct shipments to their residents, but none more than New York, the nation's second-largest wine-consuming state, after California. With the Internet fast becoming the marketing method of choice for smaller wineries, the court's decision could shape how the industry will market itself. [Page C2.]

Video Game That Relives History
A video game, released last week with the 41st anniversary of President John F. Kennedy's assassination, invites competitors to get behind Lee Harvey Oswald's sniper rifle and recreate the event. The player who most clearly replicates the shot that killed President Kennedy will win $100,000, according to its developer. [C7.]

Europe Stalls ContentGuard Deal
Microsoft and Time Warner have been trying since April to get approval to buy ContentGuard. But, in an indication of how important the world of digital rights has become, the deal has been stalled by the European Commission. New Economy. [C4.]

Hockey Strike Hurts Advertisers
Canadian hockey fans are not the only people grieving the National Hockey League lockout that has shut down the country's national sport. Many advertisers and marketers in Canada now find themselves without their most effective way to reach many target audiences, particularly men. [C7.]

It is time again to ask 20 questions about advertising, marketing, the media and popular culture. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C9.]

Cell Operators Look to Lift Sales
United States cellphone operators are flirting with selling handsets that feature their names exclusively. The effort, which follows a trend in Asia and Europe, means the companies may eventually sell more models that do not include the names of popular makers. [C4.]

Family Weekend at the Movies
Family-focused films -- many of them strong holdovers -- dominated the box office over Thanksgiving weekend. [The Arts, Page 3.]

Sony to Offer Some Details of Chip
Sony and its entertainment arm as well as I.B.M. and Toshiba will reveal some of the first details of the cell chip, jointly developed by the three companies, that will form the basis of the next generation of PlayStation consoles. [C8.]

Troubles in Ukraine Upset Economy
The crisis in Ukraine is seen primarily as a political split between east and west. But the worry is that an economic rift could emerge as well -- with the country's industry-heavy eastern half allied with Russia and the western half left to rely on trade with Europe. [C5.]

Dexia Ends Talks With Sanpaolo
Dexia, the financial-services company in Belgium, terminated talks with Italy's Sanpaolo IMI on a possible partnership, saying ''the conditions are no longer right.'' [C8.]


GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''LAST WEEK''Dow industrials -- 10,522.23 up 65.32Nasdaq composite -- 2,101.97 up 31.3410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.24% up 0.04The euro -- $1.3290 up 0.0276The dollar -- 102.56 yen down 0.52

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); DIGITAL RIGHTS MANAGEMENT (74%); COMPUTER GAMES (74%); TRENDS (74%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (74%); FILM (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); SPORTS FANS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (62%); SHOOTINGS (53%); ANNIVERSARIES (53%); THANKSGIVING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%); TOSHIBA CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); TOS (LSE) (51%); 6502 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (92%); CANADA (92%); ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2004



642 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Stress and Distress May Give Your Genes Gray Hair

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
Some stressful events seem to turn a person's hair gray overnight.
 Now a team of researchers has found that severe emotional distress -- like that caused by divorce, the loss of a job, or caring for an ill child or parent -- may speed up the aging of the body's cells at the genetic level.
 The findings, being reported today, are the first to link psychological stress so directly to biological age.
 The researchers found that blood cells from women who had spent many years caring for a disabled child were, genetically, about a decade older than those from peers who had much less caretaking experience. The study, which appears in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, also suggests that the perception of being stressed can add years to a person's biological age. 
 Though doctors have linked chronic psychological stress to weakened immune function and an increased risk of catching colds, among other things, they are still trying to understand how tension damages or weakens tissue.
 The new research suggests a new way that such damage may occur and opens the possibility that the process can be reversed. 
 ''This is a new and significant finding,'' said Dr. Bruce McEwen, director of the neuroendocrinology laboratory at Rockefeller University in New York. 
 He said the research provided some of the clearest evidence yet ''of the price in wear and tear on the tissues that everybody pays during a stressful life.''
 ''And we know as we get older,'' Dr. McEwen continued, ''we have a greater tendency to put on fat, to develop heart disease and diabetes.''
 In the experiment, Dr. Elissa Epel and Dr. Elizabeth Blackburn of the University of California at San Francisco led a team of researchers who analyzed blood samples from 58 young and middle-aged mothers, 39 of them caring for a child with a chronic disorder like autism or cerebral palsy. Using genetic techniques, the doctors examined the DNA of white blood cells, which are central to the body's immune response to infection. 
 The scientists focused on a piece of DNA, called the telomere, at the very tip of each cell's chromosomes. 
 Like the head of a split matchstick, the telomere shrinks each time a cell divides and duplicates itself.
 Cells may reproduce themselves many times throughout life to repair and strengthen their host organs, to grow or to fight disease. 
 A chemical called telomerase helps restore a portion of the telomere with each division.
 But after 10 to 50 divisions or so -- the number varies by tissue type and health, and biologists still do not understand the system well -- the telomere gets so short that the cell is effectively retired and no longer able to replicate. 
 People born with a genetic disease called dyskeratosis congenita, which causes accelerated shortening of telomeres, die young, usually by middle age, most often as a result of complications from weakened immunity. 
 Change in telomere length over time, in short, is thought to be a rough measure of a cell's age, its vitality.
 And when the researchers compared the DNA of mothers caring for disabled children, they found a striking trend: after correcting for the effects of age, they calculated that the longer the women had taken care of their child, the shorter their telomere length, and the lower their telomerase activity.
 Some of the more experienced mothers were years older than their chronological age, as measured by their white blood cells. 
 ''When people are under stress, they look haggard, it's like they age before your eyes, and here's something going on at a molecular level'' that reflects that impression, said Dr. Blackburn, a professor of biochemistry and biophysics. 
 The researchers also gave the women a questionnaire, asking them to rate on a three-point scale how overwhelmed they felt by daily life, and how often they were unable to control the important things in their lives. The women who perceived that they were under heavy stress also had significantly shortened telomeres, compared with those who felt more relaxed -- whether they were raising a disabled child or not. 
 ''Some of the women who had a lot of objective, real stress also had a low perceived amount, and the next step is trying to understand what it is that promotes this kind of resilience,'' said Dr. Epel. 
 She said the group had plans to test the effect of meditation, mindfulness training and yoga on both perceived stress and telomere length.
 A form of counseling called cognitive therapy, in which people learn to temper their responses to stress, could also help, psychologists say. 
 Personality and upbringing almost certainly account for some of this difference, however. In 2003, researchers who followed some 850 New Zealanders from birth to 26 reported that variations in a single gene helped predict which children would later become susceptible to depression, after stressful events like divorce or unemployment. 
 Researchers at the National Institutes of Health have shown, in monkeys, that warm and attentive rearing of offspring can protect young animals from precisely this genetic variation, promoting resilience in genetically vulnerable individuals. Cold or abusive rearing, psychiatrists say, can have the opposite effect. 
 ''All of these factors intertwine to make up how a person handles stress,'' said Dr. Ronald Glaser, director of Ohio State University's Institute for Behavioral Medicine Research, who with his wife, Dr. Janice Kiecolt-Glaser, has documented the effect of stress on immune function. ''We now have evidence, from a broad range of fields, from studies of wound healing, of inflammation, of vaccines, and now of cell age that really make the case'' that stress can cause real harm.
 Experts caution that the telomere study needs to be replicated and that no one has yet shown convincingly that psychological stress significantly shortens people's lives. And it is far from clear exactly how fretting over a child's learning disability, say, can cause a parent's telomeres to shorten before their time. Although researchers know that emotional strain of this kind prompts the release of stress hormones, like cortisol, which over time can damage cells, no one knows how these hormones or other stress-related toxins affect telomeres. 
 ''Right now, that is the black box,'' said Dr. Blackburn, ''and that's what we're going to study next.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Elizabeth Blackburn, left, and Dr. Elissa Epel led a research project on aging, focusing on a piece of DNA, called the telomere, found on the tip of cells' chromosomes. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DNA (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); IMMUNOLOGY (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (78%); GENETIC DISEASES (76%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (76%); BIOCHEMISTRY (76%); CEREBRAL PALSY (75%); DNA TESTING (75%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (72%); CHRONIC DISEASES (68%); HEART DISEASE (63%); DIABETES (63%); AUTISM (61%) Medicine and Health; Research; Age (Chronological); Genetics and Heredity; Immune System; Life Styles ; Medicine and Health; Stress (Human); Cells (Biological); Mental Health and Disorders

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%) Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences; University of California at San Francisco

PERSON: Benedict Carey; Elizabeth (Dr) Blackburn; Elissa (Dr) Epel

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



643 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Judge Dismisses Big Rights Suit On Apartheid

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
A federal judge in New York dismissed a human rights suit yesterday against 35 major corporations that did business in South Africa under apartheid, dealing a blow to rights lawyers who have sought to use an 18th-century law to punish international companies that operated under abusive systems. 
 The ruling, by Judge John E. Sprizzo of Federal District Court in Manhattan, came in response to suits originally brought in 2002 by three separate groups of plaintiffs in eight different federal courts across the country. They argued that the corporations, most of which are American, violated international law by actively helping to support the apartheid system. 
 They tried to sue the corporations -- Citigroup, General Electric, E.I. DuPont de Nemours, I.B.M., General Motors, Shell Oil and ExxonMobil, among others -- under the Alien Tort Claims Act, which was passed in 1789 to protect American ships from pirates and American diplomats from attack when they were overseas.
 During the past two decades, some federal courts in the United States have agreed that they have jurisdiction in human rights suits under the act when the allegations involved egregious violations of international law like torture or genocide by foreign governments or their leaders. 
 But Judge Sprizzo found that his court did not have jurisdiction under the act. 
 ''In a world where many countries may fall considerably short of ideal economic, political and social conditions, this court must be extremely cautious in permitting suits here based upon a corporation's doing business in countries with less than stellar human rights records,'' Judge Sprizzo wrote, warning that such suits could have ''significant, if not disastrous, effects on international commerce.'' 
 But Judge Sprizzo said he was adhering to a ruling by the Supreme Court in March, which determined that the alien tort act could be applied only in a narrow set of international law violations not too different from the ones named by the 18th century lawmakers who wrote it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JURISDICTION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); TORTS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); GENOCIDE (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); MARITIME PIRACY (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (83%); SHELL OIL CO (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (83%); DD (NYSE) (83%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (83%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (83%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



644 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: He Ranted, He Raved, He Rode Out on His Own Rail

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: BOONVILLE, Calif., Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Annie Esposito, the news director at KZYX, the local public radio station, is one of many people here who were not exactly heartbroken when Bruce Anderson, the rapier-witted, acid-penned editor of the weekly Anderson Valley Advertiser, announced that he was moving to Oregon.
 To Mr. Anderson, the town muckraker and ranter in chief, KZYX was a ''hippie-ding enterprise,'' a symbol of the ''wine-and-cheese gentry,'' the ''lib-lab yuppie hypocrites,'' the ''educrats,'' the ''thumbsuckers,'' the ''New Age barnacles,'' the ''feral enviro-Druids'' and other well-meaning ineffectual ''Nice People'' who flocked to hippie festivals in the early 1970's and stayed.
 ''There were all sorts of theories about Bruce,'' said Ms. Esposito, 62, whose offices include an old caboose. ''That he was crazy. That he worked for the F.B.I. But the real reason he flamed us horrible wimpy liberals was, it sells newspapers.'' 
 In 1984, after stints in the Marines and the Peace Corps and running a foster home for delinquent boys, Mr. Anderson bought the boosterish local paper for $20,000. Borrowing mottos from the French Revolution -- Peace to the cottages! War on the palaces! -- he transformed it into one of the country's most idiosyncratic and contentious weeklies. Half of its 2,500 readers live safely out of firing range outside Northern California.
 In its Dickensian pages unfolded the texture of life in this isolated, now chic and ethereally beautiful region about 120 miles north of San Francisco. Once best known for Boontling, a strange turn-of-the-century jargon, Anderson Valley, named for an early settler not related to the editor, was home to loggers, sheep ranchers and apple farmers, then hippies and back-to-the-landers. In its latest incarnation as the next Napa Valley, gourmands and oenophiles jet in to sample the acclaimed sparkling wines and pinot noir with cherry overtones as migrant workers struggle to find housing.
 Armed with a satirist's eye and occasionally a fiction writer's imagination, Mr. Anderson and his newspaper combined exposes on corruption in high places with weekly columns on marijuana, long letters to the editor (with acerbic replies) and folksy news about the blueberry cobbler at the senior center and gophers decimating the football field. 
 No one was spared, not local celebrities like Alice Walker, not the transplanted suburbanite ''hill muffins,'' not even children on electric scooters (''Why aren't the little pre-diabetic pudges encouraged to propel themselves on their own?''). 
 Like Giverny to Monet, Boonville was Mr. Anderson's canvas, minus the lilies. ''It was a case of an unexploded bomb finally finding a fuse,'' said Alexander Cockburn, the politically left-wing columnist and regular contributor to the newspaper. 
 Mr. Anderson, who is 65, sold the paper four months ago for the same price he paid for it. The buyer was David Severn, 62, known as King Fix-It, a volunteer ambulance technician, a hardware store clerk and a father of eight who writes ''Vine Watch,'' a column on the ''imperialist colonizers,'' as he calls the wine industry. Mr. Severn and Mark Scaramella, 60, the paper's longtime lead reporter, continue to publish out of The Advertiser's headquarters, ''Fort Despair,'' a scrappy fenced compound where a poster of Lenin communes on a wall with Babe Ruth. 
 In a telephone interview, Mr. Anderson said his reasons for leaving were both professional and personal. His wife, Ling, whom he met while a Peace Corps volunteer in east Malaysia, had begun to feel ''oppressed,'' wearying of her husband's notoriety and ''drunks in the middle of the night wanting to talk about the Kennedy assassination and tourists stopping by at all hours wanting to meet the crazy, cranky editor.''
 The changing nature of the valley was also a factor, Mr. Anderson said. ''Suddenly it became a wine region, with total strangers dominating the political life,'' he said. ''I began daydreaming about murdering certain people. I said, you know, this place isn't really healthy for me anymore.''
 Mr. Anderson leaves a tidal wave of opinion in his wake.
 ''A lot of people feel there were two Bruces,'' said K.C. Meadows, the managing editor of The Ukiah Daily Journal. ''There was the nice, caring guy who loved his community. Then there was the Bruce who sat down behind that typewriter and just slammed people.''
 Mr. Anderson has been jailed several times, most notably for punching a former superintendent at a school board meeting (''He called me a 10th-rate McCarthyite,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''I thought I was at least first-rate'').
 Over the years, Mr. Anderson broke stories about a school official's financial improprieties, exposed illegal practices at a foster home and wrote ceaselessly about Eugene Lincoln, or Bear, who was accused of killing a sheriff's deputy in a shootout in 1995 on an Indian reservation and was eventually acquitted of murder. 
 At times, he has strayed into fiction. Two years ago, he published a bogus interview with Mike Sweeney, the former husband of an Earth First activist, Judi Bari, in which Mr. Sweeney confessed to having planted the bomb that maimed her in 1990 (she died of cancer in 1997). Mr. Sweeney set up an anti-Anderson Web site, www.LiarUnlimited.com. ''I regret it,'' Mr. Anderson said of the article. ''It was kind of over the top.''
 In 1988, he published a fabricated interview, intended as satire, with Douglas H. Bosco, a congressman, in which Mr. Bosco railed against his dope-smoking constituents. 
 ''His biting sarcasm always had enough of a kernel of truth that it stuck,'' Mr. Bosco, now a lawyer in Santa Rosa, said. ''He's a good writer. So even if you were being completely maligned, at least you had the honor of it being done in good style.''
 Frank Zotter, chief deputy for the Mendocino county counsel, keeps Mr. Anderson's insults pinned to his office bulletin board along with favorite cartoons and family photographs. ''He said I bring 'a bland, irritatingly good-German obtuseness' to my work,'' Mr. Zotter said. ''He called me 'a willing conscript of the forces of reaction and oppression.' It's kind of nice to be insulted by someone with such a good command of the English language.''
 Mr. Anderson leaves behind local landmarks like the Boonville Hotel, once a brawling loggers' hostelry nicknamed ''bucket of blood'' and now a ''yup hut'' restaurant where cable television shoots close-ups of pumpkin curry. ''We need the dialog,'' John Schmitt, the chef and proprietor, said of the newspaper. ''We all live up dirt roads separated by geography and economics.''
 Mr. Anderson moved to Eugene, where his wife has a close friend, and started publishing AVA Oregon!, ''the Oregon newspaper that tells it like it is.'' He has taken on a police scandal, the ''slurbing out'' of the freeways and the community sports complex, ''an Albert Speerish goosestepperish fantasy come alive.''
 As for their new editor, readers in Eugene may want to follow some advice recently dispensed in Charmian Blattner's column in The Advertiser. Musing about life in general, Ms. Blattner wrote, ''When something defies description, let it.''
 Mr. Anderson admitted he ''knows beans'' about his new turf. Nevertheless, as he recently informed his readers, ''Just because I got into town five minutes ago doesn't mean I don't have opinions about the place.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce Anderson has already unpacked his pen in Eugene, Ore. Do the ''lib-lab yuppie hypocrites'' miss him? (Photo by Lori Cain for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (89%); TRAINS (78%); WRITERS (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); PUBLIC RADIO (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (65%); FOSTER CARE (65%); SHEEP FARMING (61%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%); APPLE ORCHARDS (50%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (50%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUGENE, OR, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



645 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Minaya Wants to Trade On the Stuff of Dreams

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
FIRST came Sammy Sosa and then Shawn Green and now Pedro Martinez. It's a Mets fan's winter festival.
 More big names are certain to follow because Omar Minaya's imagination seems to know no bounds. Minaya, the Mets' general manager, didn't invent the term ''thinking outside the box,'' but in baseball he is among its leading practitioners. 
 Minaya is imaginative, aggressive and determined. He must also be fearless because with his early activity he has created enough hope among Mets fans that they will surely have a letdown if he fails to execute one or more of his plans.
 Based on his early efforts, Plan A appeared to be exploring a trade with the Chicago Cubs for Sosa. This was a natural because when he was a young scout with the Texas Rangers, Minaya was instrumental in signing Sosa to his first professional contract.
 But Minaya will not act emotionally. Before completing a trade with the Cubs, he will have to be satisfied on two fronts.
 $(6$)That the deal makes sense for the Mets economically; that is, that the Cubs pay enough of the money left on Sosa's contract. 
 $(6$)That Sosa has a reasonable chance to pull out of his three-year offensive slide and become terrifically productive again.
 Sosa's hitting decline has been startling.
 Starting with the 2001 season, his batting average has dropped from .328 to .288 to .279 to .253, his home runs from 64 to 49 to 40 to 35, his runs batted in from 160 to 108 to 103 to 80, his on-base percentage from .437 to .399 to .358 to .332, his slugging percentage from .737 to .594 to .553 to .517.
 Last season, he played in his fewest games (126) since 1996, his batting average was his lowest since 1997 and his home run and R.B.I. totals were his lowest since 1994.
 Sosa turned 36 earlier this month. Can he, at that age, turn himself around?
 His slide has prompted suspicions that he used steroids but no longer does. He has denied using performance-enhancing substances, but the seemingly smaller body he played with this past season did nothing to suppress the suspicions.
 Scouts are mixed in their assessment of the 2004 Sosa. Some felt he showed good bat speed toward the end of the season; others didn't think he was as strong. That's the kind of information Minaya has to deal with in deciding how far he will go to acquire him.
 Even if he concludes that Sosa can reverse his offensive output, Minaya will not take him with his entire $17 million salary for next season. The Cubs would have to agree to pay a substantial portion, perhaps half, as well as the $4.5 million buyout of his option year and his $3.5 million in severance pay.
 Minaya doesn't have to rush into a deal. If the Cubs are so eager to shed their once beloved Sammy, they will have to come to him and satisfy the Mets' stance on Sosa's salary.
 If a Sosa solicitation was Plan A, a Piazza probe seemed to be Plan 1A. Minaya approached the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Anaheim Angels about acquiring Piazza, and neither laughed at him.
 ''My belief is there's no way they can assume Sammy's contract without trading Mike,'' Dan Lozano, Piazza's agent, said last week. That, however, depends on how much the Cubs include in their trade, if there is one.
 The Angels later traded Jose Guillen, whom Minaya might have wanted for Piazza, to the Washington Nationals, but the Angels could still use a designated hitter, a role for which Piazza is perfectly suited.
 The Dodgers, with whom Piazza began his career, are apparently open to further talks on a Piazza-for-Green deal, though they haven't leaped at the opportunity.
 Salaries would not be an issue because the two, in the last years of their contracts, have comparable salaries: Piazza $15 million, Green $16 million. The two would also have to approve a trade.
 Neither is as productive as he used to be. Green, however, is four years younger and may have a better chance of rebounding, which raises this question: Why would the Dodgers make the trade?
 ''Mike hasn't given it much thought,'' Lozano said of a possible deal. ''He's not going to worry about a lot of rumors. When they present something on our table, Mike can say he'd consider it or he wouldn't. Mike likes New York; he likes the people, and he'd be happy to stay there.''
 The most intriguing question of the off-season has become whether Martinez will be happy to stay in Boston.
 He has, at his request, met with George Steinbrenner, and he has had dinner with Minaya, a fellow Dominican. He might have taken these steps to induce the Red Sox to enhance their offer.
 The Mets, meanwhile, have demonstrated a genuine interest in Martinez, offering him more than $13 million a year for three years in addition to an option year that could vest based on how frequently he pitches.
 The money is comparable to what the Red Sox have offered, and the guaranteed third year is more than the Red Sox have offered.
 The danger in signing Martinez is his durability.
 The Mets have walked away from Al Leiter because they feel he has become a five-inning pitcher, and the resulting use of the bullpen is detrimental to the relievers' health.
 Martinez has become a seven-inning, if not a six-inning, pitcher, but the Mets believe he would benefit from pitching in the National League, throwing fewer pitches than Leiter and lasting longer.
 Minaya hasn't asked for help in making off-season personnel decisions, but the thinking here is that he should sack Sosa, go for Green and pursue Pedro. The man can still pitch, and the fans would love him.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sammy Sosa's offensive production has declined steadily since 2001, and his contract would not come cheap. (Photo by Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); FESTIVALS (78%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (76%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); STEROIDS (66%); SEVERANCE PAY (66%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); CHICAGO CUBS (91%); TEXAS RANGERS (56%) New York Mets

PERSON: Murray Chass; Omar Minaya; Sammy Sosa; Pedro Martinez; Shawn Green

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) TEXAS, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



646 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Business Week Editor to Lead CUNY's New Journalism School

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
In a unanimous vote yesterday, the trustees of the City University of New York named Stephen B. Shepard, the editor in chief of Business Week, as dean of the university's new graduate journalism school.
 Mr. Shepard, 65, said that he would move to CUNY in late March, and that the new school would open in August 2006 with about 50 students. It will gradually expand to 200. His appointment takes effect April 1. 
 The board also approved the creation of an ''Institute to Nurture New York's Nature,'' to raise public awareness of environmental issues.
 Theodore W. Kheel, the labor lawyer, shaped the project and is giving CUNY $1 million to support it. He has been active in issues involving the environment since he attended the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (the Earth Summit) in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. He said he hoped the CUNY program would become a model for other urban universities.
 ''Students are at an important stage of their lives, and they are learning about the city they live in,'' he said. ''What a wonderful opportunity to raise public awareness.''
 In a memo to Business Week employees on Saturday, Mr. Shepard spoke of the opportunity he, too, saw at CUNY. Leaving the magazine will be wrenching, he wrote, but the new job combines three things he cares deeply about: journalism, public education and New York City. Mr. Shepard said he anticipated that his successor at the magazine would be chosen soon. 
 He said he hoped the school would increase the flow of minority students and immigrants into journalism.
 As a City College graduate, he added: ''This new role stirs my soul. I'm excited by the prospects and a little nervous.'' CUNY officials said that Mr. Shepard's compensation had not yet been set.
 Mr. Shepard said that deciding the length of the new program would be a central question. Other leading programs are one year, 18 months and two years.
 A shorter program, he said, would be less costly for students. But a longer program -- ''which is the way things are going'' -- offers more time to cover the new digital media as well as the more traditional print and broadcast media, and to go deeper into substantive areas like the sciences, urban affairs and the arts. He said that ethics and the legal dimensions of journalism would also be important.
 CUNY offers undergraduate journalism programs on a number of its campuses, and has a small master's degree program in business journalism at Baruch College.
 Joshua Mills, director of the graduate program at Baruch, said yesterday that he and his colleagues expected that their program would be folded into the new school.
 The program, which is three semesters plus a thesis, has drawn students from other countries, as well as mid-career journalists who want to learn about business and economics, and career-changers from the business world who want to become journalists. To his surprise, he said, relatively few students enter directly from college.
 ''One hope that we all have,'' Mr. Mills said, ''is that the new graduate school will be a highly visible flagship for journalism within CUNY and call more attention to the work we do at the undergraduate level.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ETHICS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); APPROVALS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); LAWYERS (68%) Journalism Schools; Graduate Schools and Students; Philanthropy; Environment

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%) City University of New York; Business Week (Magazine); Institute to Nurture New York's Nature (CUNY)

PERSON: Karen W Arenson; Stephen B Shepard; Theodore W Kheel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (71%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



647 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: A New Push to Loosen New York's Divorce Law

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

 BODY:
If there was one thing Cathy and Robert Jacob agreed on, their lawyers said recently, it was that their marriage was over. 
 After 26 years, they divorced in January 2003, but Mr. Jacob was unhappy with the financial terms imposed by the court and appealed. Last June, an appellate court reviewed the decision and decided that neither of the Jacobs had shown proper grounds for divorce, an unexpected decision that would be unlikely in other states.
 And so, four years after they split up, the Jacobs are still married. 
 ''There was never even a thought that the court would say, 'A pox on you both,''' said Suzanne K. Bracker, the lawyer for Mr. Jacob. ''What people should know is that getting a divorce is not a slam dunk.''
 Especially not in New York. By some measures, the state has the most obstacles to divorce. It is one of a handful that does not allow one spouse to unilaterally end a marriage. It is also one of the few without some form of one-step, no-fault divorce for couples like the Jacobs.
 There are all sorts of theories about why New York has been so conservative on matters of family law and has held out on this issue. The Catholic Church has objections to easier divorces, and women's groups are concerned about the economic harm to women from inequitable financial settlements. Divorce reformers have spent years focusing on other issues, including distribution of assets, child support and custody and domestic violence. Then there is the generally sclerotic Legislature, where some members still recall the bruising fight over this issue 15 years ago, when the Assembly defeated a no-fault bill.
 But now, matrimonial lawyers, bar associations and judges are pushing to have the law changed, saying it is archaic and heightens hostilities between spouses, which particularly hurts children. Both the New York State Bar Association and the city bar are backing a legislative change in Albany to add no-fault grounds, and several powerful legislators appear to be receptive. 
 ''Even Chile, one of the most Catholic countries in the world, has no-fault divorce now,'' said Harold A. Mayerson, a Manhattan divorce lawyer and chairman of the matrimonial law panel at the Association of the Bar of the City of New York. 
 In September, the Women's Bar Association of the State of New York reversed its longtime opposition to no-fault. ''We feel that society has changed, that many more women are working today,'' said Susan W. Kaufman, chairwoman of the group's legislative committee.
 In New York, irreconcilable differences are not enough to get a divorce. Incompatibility is not enough. An irretrievable breakdown in the marriage is not enough. Mutual consent is not enough: even in an uncontested divorce, someone must take the blame. Living apart, even for decades, is not enough.
 One party to a divorce must allege ''cruel and inhuman treatment,'' or adultery, or abandonment -- literal or sexual -- for a year. A spouse in prison for at least three years is also grounds.
 The only time a couple does not need grounds to divorce is when they reach a legal agreement to separate -- with consensus on all issues, including finances and child custody -- and then live apart for a year. But one of them could still contest the divorce by claiming that the other had not lived up to the terms.
 When the parties do not agree about everything -- particularly when they disagree about money, lawyers say -- they can and do go to court to contest the grounds in front of a judge or a jury. (Fault is the only issue in which jury trials are allowed, though they are rare.)
 Some experts say the time, the expense and the emotional costs of having to prove fault leave them shaking their heads in dismay. ''I'm hard pressed to think of a reason why we should continue to resist no-fault,'' said John DeWitt Gregory, a professor of family law at Hofstra University's law school.
 Critics also note that the states neighboring New York have some form of no-fault, so that a New Yorker who really wants a divorce -- and has enough money to move and does not have physical custody of the children -- can get one simply by moving to Greenwich, Conn., or Fort Lee, N.J., or Burlington, Vt.
 While some people battle over the grounds for divorce because they want to stay married for religious reasons or hope to reconcile, many lawyers say that is rare. 
 For the most part, they contend, the party opposing a divorce is trying for a better financial settlement or trying to avoid ''equitable distribution'' of the couple's assets, which is done only after a divorce is granted.
 Opponents of so-called unilateral divorce disagree. ''To lawyers and judges, of course, the divorce is a foregone conclusion,'' said Monica Getz, founder of the Coalition for Family Justice, an advocacy and support group based in Irvington, N.Y., for people caught up in the state's matrimonial courts. ''For people who are hoping to work things out, it's a very discouraging thing.''
 Opponents of no-fault divorce have traditionally argued that it destabilizes the family and increases divorce rates. But Justin Wolfers, an economist now at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, found that most of that increase is temporary, and that after a decade or so, divorce rates in states that adopted no-fault started dropping back to almost their original level.
 His research also shows that after states adopt no-fault divorce, fewer women commit suicide and domestic violence drops sharply, a finding that has been embraced by advocates of no-fault. One reason for the declines, he said in a recent interview, is that women gain bargaining power when they can make a credible threat to leave the marriage. 
 Many judges detest the he-said, she-said of fault trials, and some pressure the couple into agreeing to ''constructive abandonment,'' in which one of the parties testifies that his or her spouse refused to have sex for a year, despite repeated requests, even if it is not true.
 Constructive abandonment has become popular with spouses, too, some lawyers say, but it does not always succeed. In April, a Supreme Court Justice on Staten Island refused to grant a divorce because the plaintiff, the wife, failed to prove ''that she repeatedly requested a resumption of sexual relations.''
 Lawyers say trials on the issue of fault are relatively rare (in the vast majority of divorces, the parties reach a settlement), and denials of divorce because of a failure to prove grounds are even rarer.
 But there have been at least half a dozen denials in the past 12 months, according to court records and decisions published in the New York Law Journal. And earlier this month, a Manhattan jury could not reach a verdict in a fault trial, so no divorce was granted, said Bernard Clair, the lawyer who represented the party opposing the divorce.
 One judge, Acting Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey Lebowitz, used his denial to send a message to the Legislature. In a decision published in July, he denied a divorce to a teacher who sought to end her three-decade-long marriage on the grounds of cruel and inhumane treatment.
 The conduct the unnamed woman complained about, which included a threat by her husband to cut up a couch with a chainsaw, simply did not meet the legal requirement for cruelty, which must be so severe that it would be improper for the couple to live together, the judge wrote. But he expressed sympathy for the woman, noted that her situation was not uncommon, and called ''upon the Legislature to review the status of fault in this state.''
 A review, at least, may actually happen. Senator John A. DeFrancisco, a Republican from Syracuse, who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said he favored holding hearings on fault, and opposes requiring grounds in cases in which both parties want to divorce. ''It may be time for New York to get back to reality, rather than legal fiction,'' he said.
 The Assembly may hold discussions on the issue in the coming months, said Helene E. Weinstein, a Democratic assemblywoman from Brooklyn who is chairwoman of the judiciary committee. Her concern, she said, is making sure that the party with less money ''is not put into a worse position because of a lack of bargaining power.''
 While no-fault divorce would appear to help women fleeing abusive marriages, requiring grounds helps those whose abusers want to abandon them with little money, giving them a bargaining chip to argue for a bigger financial settlement or health insurance, said Julie A. Domonkos, executive director of My Sister's Place, a shelter for battered women in Westchester County.
 As it has in the past, the Catholic Church opposes attempts to add no-fault grounds, said Dennis Poust, director of communications for the New York State Catholic Conference. 
 So would many advocates for father's rights, who say the current system unfairly favors mothers in custody and divorce proceedings. Randall L. Dickinson, a founder of the Coalition of Fathers and Families N.Y., said his group may not be totally opposed to no-fault, but added, ''we cannot continue to facilitate or incentivize divorce for one party.''
 And some matrimonial lawyers say they would hate to lose fault. One of them is Jo Ann E. Coughtry, who represented Mrs. Jacob in the case in which the divorce was overturned. The appellate court found that Mr. Jacob could not prove cruelty, and that he had not been gone long enough when the divorce litigation began to constitute abandonment.
 That leaves the door open for Mrs. Jacob to file for divorce now that the couple has been apart so long, Ms. Coughtry said, but her client actually benefits financially from remaining married. The court awarded her spousal support indefinitely, and she does not have to sell the family home. 
 ''She could commence another action for divorce,'' Ms. Coughtry said, ''but why?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold A. Mayerson, a Manhattan lawyer, favors a no-fault law. (Photo by Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY LAW (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WOMEN (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (86%); FAMILY (78%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (77%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (77%); APPEALS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



648 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Exiting Ukraine President Supports New Elections
President Leonid D. Kuchma of Ukraine proposed holding a new election to end the political crisis threatening to tear the country apart, while the country's Supreme Court heard complaints of electoral fraud in the election for president last week. His remarks represented the collapse of what had been a united government position. A1

Iraqi Forces Under Pressure
Iraqi police and national guard forces, whose performance is crucial to securing January elections, are foundering in the face of coordinated efforts to murder and intimidate them and their families, say American officials in the provinces facing the most violent insurgency. A1

West of Ramadi, a suicide bomber rammed his car into a group of police officers, killing 12 people, Interior Ministry officials said. In Baghdad, two American soldiers were killed by a roadside bomb, military officials said. The deputy governor of Najaf, along with 30 other Iraqis, was arrested and charged with plotting to kill the American-installed governor, police officials said. A10

U.N. Agency Passes Resolution
In a defeat for the Bush administration, the ruling board of the International Atomic Energy Agency passed a mildly worded resolution welcoming Iran's total freeze on a sensitive part of its nuclear program. The resolution removes the possibility that the group will seek censure or even sanctions against Iran from the United Nations. A3

Sudan Orders Aid Officials Out
The government of Sudan has ordered the country directors of Oxfam Great Britain and Save the Children UK, two aid agencies that provide relief to displaced people in Darfur, to leave the country, accusing them of statements that the government says suggest support for rebels. A3

China Signs Trade Pact
Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China signed a trade accord at a regional summit meeting that calls for eliminating tariffs on a range of agricultural and manufactured goods by 2010, moving the country closer to cementing its economic and diplomatic relationships with Southeast Asia. A9

NATIONAL A15-21

Red Cross Report Cites Prisoner Abuse by Military
The International Committee of the Red Cross has charged in confidential reports to the United States government that the American military has intentionally used psychological and sometimes physical coercion ''tantamount to torture'' on prisoners at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. A1

Campuses May Bar Recruiters
The United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit ruled that universities may bar military recruiters from their campuses without risking the loss of federal money. A1

Transfers Raise Flag at Charity
The World Jewish Congress, the nonprofit organization that helped force Swiss banks to pay more than $1 billion to settle Holocaust-related claims, is in turmoil over an odd series of money transfers. A21

Judge Voids Libel Suit
A federal judge in Virginia has dismissed a libel lawsuit brought by a former Army bioterrorism expert who accused The New York Times and an Op-Ed columnist of implicating him in the unsolved anthrax attacks of October 2001. A21

Justices Skip Gay Union Debate
The Supreme Court sidestepped the nationwide battle over same-sex marriage, declining to hear a case aimed at overturning the Massachusetts law that made it legal this year for gay couples to marry. A20

The effort by advocates of the medical use of marijuana to link their cause to the Supreme Court's federalism revolution appeared headed for failure as the justices expressed little inclination to view drug policy as a states'-rights issue. A20

Body Found in Plane's Ruins
The body of a teenager believed to be the son of Dick Ebersol, the chairman of NBC Sports, was recovered from the wreckage of a corporate jet that crashed and exploded Sunday during takeoff from an airport in Montrose, Colorado. A15

Crime in School Declines
Crime in the nation's schools fell sharply from 1992 to 2002, part of the broad decline in crime in the last decade, according to a report issued by the Justice Department and the Department of Education. A21

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

No-Fault Divorce Pushed in New York
New York is one of the few states and by some definitions the only state that has not adopted some form of no-fault divorce. But now, matrimonial lawyers, bar associations and even some judges are pushing to have the law changed, saying it is archaic and needlessly heightens hostilities between spouses. A1

Senator Wins 2nd Reprieve
A judge ordered Guy J. Velella, a former New York state senator, back to jail, agreeing with the city that a mayoral panel had the power to send him back. But just three hours later an appeals court temporarily put a halt to efforts to put Mr. Velella back in jail, allowing him to remain free until Dec. 16, when five judges will consider his case. B1

Antismoking Effort Faulted
An independent review of the New York State Department of Health's $50 million program to reduce smoking found that it has repeatedly failed to spend all of the money available and has been unable to devise an advertising strategy to encourage people not to smoke. B5

Retired Officer Is Indicted
A retired New York detective has been charged with manslaughter after his gun discharged in a Queens delicatessen last month, killing a teenage worker, District Attorney Richard A. Brown announced. B1

Neediest Cases B4

SCIENCE TIMES F1-12

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B8

ARTS E1-10

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-6

Mets Top Red Sox Offer
The Mets have submitted a contract proposal to Pedro Martinez that is more lucrative than the one offered by the Boston Red Sox, according to a major league executive. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Merck Adopts Bonus Plan
Merck, which has been reeling since it withdrew its arthritis treatment Vioxx from the market after acknowledging that the drug can cause heart attacks, has adopted a plan that will give its top executives a chance for big bonuses if the company is taken over. A1

New Market for Airbus
The European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company the controlling shareholder of Airbus, said that its board ''fully supports'' the company's plan to build a competitor to the 7E7, Boeing's ultra-efficient, 200- to 300-seat plane aimed at the market for midsize aircraft. C1

Credit Data, With a Catch
Under a federal law passed a year ago, many consumers will be entitled, beginning tomorrow, to a free credit report every year from each of the three big credit-reporting bureaus. But getting the free reports could be an expensive proposition for unwary consumers. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES C17

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Glimmers of sanity in Ukraine; protecting the whistle-blower; free the academic drug tests; the Capitol money pit.

Column: David Brooks.

Crossword E4
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E8
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LIBEL & SLANDER (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); JUDGES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); APPEALS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LITIGATION (77%); ARMIES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); HOLOCAUST (75%); MURDER (75%); TORTURE (75%); FAMILY (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); TERRORISM (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); BOMBINGS (74%); MILITARY RECRUITING (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); GENOCIDE (72%); ARRESTS (71%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (69%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (55%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (54%); OXFAM GB (54%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); UKRAINE (94%); IRAQ (94%); SUDAN (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CUBA (86%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



649 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Pilots and Makers of Copters Defy the Aviation Slump

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Larry J. Murphy keeps a hair-raising pace as a helicopter pilot. At 3:30 a.m. on a recent Monday, he transferred a cardiac patient to Lehigh Valley Hospital, his home base in Allentown, Pa., and barely had time to refuel his helicopter before he was called to a vehicle rollover. 
 Yet that bustle underscores why -- in an aviation world of bankrupt airlines and despondent employees -- the helicopter business is a relatively happy and optimistic niche. Mr. Murphy earns a base salary of only $65,000 after nearly a quarter-century on the job, but he and his fellow chopper pilots relish the variety and excitement, which by comparison makes flying a 727 seem like driving a bus.
 Indeed, Mr. Murphy and his colleagues at the Keystone Helicopter Corporation, which runs the service for the hospital, recently voted not to unionize. 
 As airlines that rely on fare-shopping passengers struggle to survive, helicopter companies that can charge $10,000 for a single medical airlift are thriving. With the business on the upswing, manufacturers, after suffering through a post-Sept. 11 slump, are churning out copters again and competing intensely for a new spate of military and commercial orders that could reap them at least $6 billion, probably more.
 A reason for the boom is that helicopters are getting comfy. Traditionally they were deafeningly loud, jarring, often regarded as unreliable and -- perhaps undeservedly -- unsafe. But technological advances have made helicopters plusher and quieter, giving them a newfound cachet as one of the newest coveted corporate toys.
 Companies that maintain and overhaul helicopters say their phones are always ringing. Flight schools report a rise in students hungering to take over as the Vietnam-era helicopter pilots -- the military mavericks who make up a large part of the civilian helicopter pilot force -- start to retire.
 Companies that provide medical evacuation services say that hospitals, looking for ways to grab profitable patients, have driven their business up 8.4 percent this year. And as a relatively well-heeled population ages, an inevitable increase in accidents and heart attacks could drive it even higher. 
 ''Face it: more aortas are going to burst as more people age,'' said Steve Towne, chief executive of Ranger Aerospace, which owns Keystone and employs 145 pilots. 
 Nor is medical evacuation the industry's only sweet spot. Helicopters, which can take off and land almost anywhere, are often the only way to patrol borders, to check traffic, to transport logs from deep in a jungle, to install a microwave tower on a mountaintop. Thus, in an era when even successful airlines like JetBlue are enduring a drop in earnings, the helicopter industry as a whole is emerging as the little engine that could. 
 ''Regional jets, corporate jets, they have explosive growth one year, none the next,'' said Roy Resavage, president of the Helicopter Association International, the industry's trade association.
 ''We grow at a steady 3 to 4 percent clip,'' he said. ''It's the tortoise and the hare.''
 In fact, the industry is more harelike this year, and if technological advances could make helicopters faster and more affordable, the industry could really take off. But even now, the new spurt has brought fresh challenges to American helicopter makers, as foreign competitors vie for military business that the Americans pretty much had on their own.
 The military is still the biggest customer, and the Bush administration has grown more willing to entertain bids from European competitors like Eurocopter and Agusta, even for the presidential helicopter. ''The helicopter industry is no longer the last refuge of hard-core nationalism,'' said Richard Aboulafia, a vice president of the Teal Group, an aerospace market analysis firm.
 But increasingly, commercial sales are making up the slack, as new guidance systems, quieter interiors and other technological changes make modern helicopters more useful for transporting people and equipment alike. Jeffrey P. Pino, senior vice president of the Sikorsky Aircraft subsidiary of the United Technologies Corporation, estimates that industrywide sales of helicopters for commercial use will hit a hefty $1.5 billion this year -- relatively small next to the $5 billion or so the military will spend, but still a potential return to the industry's headier days. 
 According to figures published by the association, sales of helicopters for civilian use peaked in 1980, when 1,366 helicopters were sold. The nadir was in 1993, when recession-battered companies bought just 258 new helicopters. Helicopter sales again rose steadily until the combination of recession and post-Sept. 11 flying jitters crippled them in 2001 and 2002. 
 But the pace is again quickening. Last year American companies bought 325 new helicopters, and helicopter plants are operating near capacity this year. 
 ''No question, the market for helicopters and pilots is getting better,'' said Douglas W. Nelms, a former army helicopter pilot who is now managing editor of Rotor and Wing, a helicopter industry magazine. 
 For medical evacuation services, business is simply booming. Helicopters are the most efficient way for hospitals to bring a steady stream of patients from across a wide geographic area and thus keep beds full. For an accident victim or someone with a heart attack, they are the fastest way to get to a life-saving trauma, burn or cardiac center. And while helicopter services charge thousands of dollars, insurance companies will often pick up part of the cost. And increasingly, hospitals are pooling resources to pay the rest of it. Keystone, for example, picks up patients in five states and transports them to Lehigh Valley and Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia, which split the cost of Keystone's contract. 
 Another kind of helicopter ambulance service is also springing up. Instead of working under contract to hospitals, they operate as freelancers, responding to emergency calls from 911 services, the police or patients themselves. CJ Systems Aviation, for example, has a fast-growing business in responding to emergency calls with its own medical team and billing the patient for as much as $10,000 afterward. 
 ''There's risk, since you can't be sure how much the insurance company will pay, but the margins are still better than when you bid competitively for a hospital contract,'' said Lawrence J. Pietropaulo, president of CJ Systems. The company, based in Pittsburgh, had just six helicopters five years ago. Today, it has 105, with 6 more on order. Its revenue last year was about $140 million.
 Outside the medical arena, growth is steady, but not meteoric. The CHC Helicopter Corporation, based in Vancouver, British Columbia, derives nearly three quarters of its $670 million ($570 million) in annual revenues from offshore oil operations, and it was optimistic enough to order 15 helicopters from Sikorsky this year. But, Chris Flanagan, a CHC spokesman, stops short of trumpeting a boom. 
 ''Offshore projects require tremendous lead time and planning, so the move to more helicopters just doesn't happen quickly,'' he said.
 If helicopter manufacturers ever break the price and speed barriers, though, most experts say new uses for helicopters will take off. For now, a helicopter that carries just eight passengers can cost $8 million to $10 million, while one big enough to carry 19 can exceed $16 million. Moreover, the fastest copters rarely exceed 145 miles per hour or range much farther than 450 miles.
 But once helicopters fly at 250 miles an hour, they will compete with scheduled commuter and private jet services. If that happens, the demand for machines, and for people to fly them and fix them, could boom. 
 Competition for good pilots is already heating up. At the end of last year, 29,176 pilots were certified to fly helicopters, gliders and recreational planes, according to the Federal Aviation Administration, down from 29,913 in 2002.
 Mr. Murphy notes that Keystone used to easily find pilots with 10 years of experience and 2,000 hours of flight time; today, someone with 10 years of experience and half that flight time is a real catch. ''You can't call it a shortage, the pilots are still qualified, but the supply is definitely tighter,'' he said. 
 Unions have made inroads at a few helicopter services, and Keystone, which is nonunion, recently agreed to pay time and a half for overtime. But over all, salaries can still be as low as $25,000 for the pilot of a small news helicopter, and only the chief pilots who transport executives for Fortune 100 companies routinely make into the six digits.
 Still, even the low pay is not keeping helicopter pilots grounded.
 ''Jet pilots see clouds and airports, we see the country and the final destinations,'' said Darren Lucas, a flight instructor and co-owner of Dutch Country Helicopters, a flight school that operates out of Lancaster Airport in Pennsylvania. ''That variety will always remain a huge lure.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Sikorsky helicopter at a plant in Connecticut. Jeffrey P. Pino, senior vice president of Sikorsky Aircraft, estimates that industrywide sales of helicopters for commercial use will hit $1.5 billion this year. (Photo by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times)(pg. C12)
 Larry Murphy, a pilot for Keystone Helicopter, has a busy schedule. He said the supply of qualified pilots was tight. (Photo by Sabina Louise Pierce for The New York Times )(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (95%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); FLIGHT SCHOOLS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KEYSTONE HELICOPTER CORP (69%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (57%); RANGER AEROSPACE LLC (51%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4581 AIRPORTS, FLYING FIELDS & AIRPORT TERMINAL SERVICES (69%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



650 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: Canada, the Closer Country for Outsourcing Work

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
Like many software outsourcing companies, Keane often sends work to its employees in India. But at the same time, Keane, which is based in Boston, is expanding its base of software developers in its original, and much closer, outsourcing location: Canada.
 While the debate over software and call center outsourcing from the United States focuses mainly on India, the Philippines, Singapore and other distant points, its significant growth in Canada has attracted relatively little attention. Canada lags India in the number of people working in outsourcing businesses. But its stability, proximity and cultural similarity to the United States tend to attract higher-value, more sophisticated work.
 At the same time, outsourcing companies, including Keane, have started dividing jobs between operations in Canada and India. 
 ''In some cases we use Canada as a front end to India,'' said Alaisdar M. Graham, Keane's managing director for Canada. ''We find that this takes away the issues people have with India.''
 Canada is holding its own against India in high-end work. ''We do not have the same volume of people as India,'' said Robert Scott, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers Canada, based in Toronto, and the co-author of a study on outsourcing. ''But Canada is generally competing at the leading edge of technology where close interaction between business users and developers is critical.''
 The lack of cultural differences between the countries has helped Canada also draw the call center part of the business. Mark Best, a call center industry analyst at Datamonitor, forecasts that the Canadian call center industry will grow 7.9 percent a year over the next three years, with the United States segment expanding more than 12 percent annually.
 Proximity and cultural overlap clearly help Canada in this business. ''We can honestly talk about last night's ballgame because we watched it,'' Mr. Scott said. Because Canadians are more aware of American fashion trends than Indians, Mr. Best said Canada is a better choice for serving customers of mail-order fashion retailers in the United States.
 Canadian outsourcers and their customers realize the business is politically sensitive. In an attempt to distance themselves from India, many people in the Canadian industry refer to their business as ''near shore outsourcing.'' Others prefer to call it ''remote contracting.''
 Mr. Graham said that in contrast to some of Keane's experiences with its Indian operations, few customers from the United States appear to have misgivings about moving work to Canada. ''They tend to view Canada as the next state,'' he said.
 Mr. Best added: ''Companies are willing to pay a premium for a destination that is close to home. The customer on the end of the phone will be able to relate much better to a representative in Canada than one in the Philippines.''
 Mr. Best estimated that Canada had 26,300 call center ''agent positions,'' or workstations, serving the United States. The actual number of workers is probably much higher, as each position is basically a phone line and a cubicle. At some call centers, three employees on separate shifts will work a single phone during each 24-hour period. The figure, however, looks almost insignificant when compared with the 2.85 million call agent jobs that remain in the United States.
 A recent study by PricewaterhouseCoopers Canada estimated that 15,000 to 20,000 Canadians develop software for foreign companies. The Canadian subsidiary of E.D.S. alone has about 1,400 workers developing software, though the company declined to say how much of that work is for customers outside Canada. Mr. Scott, the partner at Pricewaterhouse, said he believed that the amount of software work coming into Canada was being offset by work leaving the country. 
 Canada's role as an outsourcer began in the late 1980's when the New Brunswick premier at the time, Frank McKenna, worked with the province's telephone company to upgrade its network before embarking on a worldwide sales campaign to lure business, sometimes sweetened with promises of government handouts. Like many provinces in Atlantic Canada, New Brunswick had an economy heavily dependent on resource industries like lumber and fishing that offered limited job opportunities.
 At that time, and to a lesser extent today, governmental encouragement of outsourcing was criticized as concentrating on jobs with a reputation for low wages and relatively little advancement.
 But Kevin G. Bulmer, who designed the New Brunswick campaign in its early days, said that it was important to look at the alternatives. Unlike most resource-based industries, call centers generally provide steady, year-round employment. And cubicles, whatever their shortcomings, offered a far more pleasant environment than many of the province's traditional employers.
 ''Do people in call centers work in hip waders, stand in cold water all day like they do on the fish-packing line?'' asked Mr. Bulmer, who is now the senior investment officer at the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency, an investment promotion arm of the Canadian government.
 New Brunswick's initial success soon spread to other parts of Canada with similar economic circumstances, like the rest of Atlantic Canada, rural British Columbia and the northern portions of Ontario. Even more affluent regions have attracted some work. Across the river from the Nortel Networks main research center in Ottawa, Hewlett-Packard provides technical support to American customers in Gatineau, Quebec. Similarly, the VAC Service Corporation of Middletown, N.Y., which administers warranties for appliance and electronics makers, operates a call center in suburban Ottawa that is integrated with two operations in the United States.
 Government grants play a minor role in bringing in companies. Cendant, for instance, received a grant of 1.8 million Canadian dollars ($1.5 million) for its operation, one that Mr. Best said was typical of the general pattern of call centers here.
 Rather than making outgoing sales calls, the center largely handles incoming calls for Budget Rent a Car system, the Avis Rent a Car system, Cendant's nine hotel chains and its time-share resort business. 
 Mr. Best said that banks and other financial services companies as well as catalog retailers had moved some or all of their incoming-call work to Canada. Eddie Bauer now handles all of its catalog inquiries with about 600 workers in New Brunswick, while some Spiegel and Newport News catalog calls go to Nova Scotia and to Virginia.
 Keane first brought some of its software work to Canada in 1996 when it was looking for extra help to deal with Year 2000-related work. But when 2000 came and went without incident, Mr. Graham said the company was sold on the advantages of Nova Scotia and focused the Canadian operation on software development and, at a smaller level, system maintenance.
 Not only were there eight universities near Halifax feeding skilled employees into Keane, Mr. Graham said, but the company was quickly bombarded with resumes from highly skilled expatriate Canadians who wanted to return home. Mr. Graham said the company planned to add 100 employees to its Toronto operation.
 Lower costs were also a factor -- even considering the 26 percent rise in the Canadian dollar since January 2002. Stephen E. Lund, president of Nova Scotia Business, a government-financed agency, estimates a skilled software worker who can command $80,000 to $90,000 a year in Boston is paid the equivalent of $60,000 to $70,000 a year in Halifax. Costs for a typical 110-employee software development group in Halifax, he said, are about 40 percent to 50 percent lower than Boston or New York.
 E.D.S. and CenterBeam of San Jose, Calif., are among the other software companies with Canadian operations.
 While any customer is welcome, Bernard Courtois, president of the Information Technology Association of Canada, said that the shifting of work for American state and local governments to Canada had created some trade friction in the past and would probably continue to do so. 
 Nevertheless, with the exception of the motion picture industry, the shifting of jobs in other sectors to Canada has rarely prompted national debate in the United States. Mr. Courtois said that was likely to be the case with software and call center outsourcing.
 ''In the U.S., the debate is often dominated by local issues and I think that's where it's going to continue to play out,'' Mr. Courtois said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: VAC Service of Middletown, N.Y., which administers warranties for appliance and electronics makers, has a call center in suburban Ottawa. (Photo by Ian Austen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (94%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); CALL CENTERS (89%); TRENDS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (61%); FASHION & APPAREL (61%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (61%) Computers and the Internet; Foreign Labor; Labor; Computer Software

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT C SCOTT (50%) Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (88%) Canada; India; Philippines; Singapore

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



651 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: States' Rights Defense Falters in Medical Marijuana Case

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
The effort by advocates of the medical use of marijuana to link their cause to the Supreme Court's federalism revolution appeared headed for failure at the court on Monday. 
 During a lively argument, the justices expressed little inclination to view drug policy as a states' rights issue by which California and other states that have adopted ''compassionate use'' marijuana measures could displace federal regulation of homegrown marijuana distributed to patients without charge and without crossing state lines. 
 The closely watched case, which drew a crowd to the court, is an appeal by the Bush administration of a ruling last December by the federal appeals court in California that the federal Controlled Substances Act was ''likely unconstitutional'' as applied to two women who used marijuana under their doctors' care within the terms of Proposition 215, California's Compassionate Use Act, adopted by the voters in 1996. 
 Nine other states have adopted similar measures that permit people with chronic pain or illnesses like cancer and AIDS to use marijuana under a doctor's supervision. 
 By a 2-to-1 vote, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued an injunction barring federal agents from seizing the women's marijuana supplies. One patient, Diana Monson, grows her own marijuana and uses it to ease severe back spasms. The other, Angel McClary Raich, who has a brain tumor and other ailments, is too sick to cultivate her own marijuana and receives it without charge from two anonymous people. The two women sued for an injunction after federal agents arrived at Ms. Monson's home in Butte County and, after a three-hour standoff with local law enforcement agents, seized and destroyed her six marijuana plants.
 The Ninth Circuit panel held that under the Supreme Court's recent federalism precedents, the noncommercial intrastate activity in which the women were engaged did not fall within Congress's constitutional authority to regulate interstate commerce.
 But illegal drugs are fungible and exist within a national market, Paul D. Clement, the acting solicitor general, told the Supreme Court in arguing the administration's appeal, Ashcroft v. Raich, No. 03-1454. ''What we're talking about here is the possession, manufacture and distribution of a valuable commodity for which there is, unfortunately, a ready market,'' he said.
 Mr. Clement asserted that Supreme Court precedents dating to the New Deal made it clear that ''the relevant focal point is not the individual plaintiff's activities'' but rather the impact on the economy of an entire category of activity, taken as a whole, that Congress has chosen to regulate.
 In fact, much of the debate in the courtroom on Monday centered on one particular precedent, Wickard v. Filburn, a decision from 1942 that upheld Congress's effort to support wheat prices by controlling wheat production. The court held that even the wheat that a farmer cultivated for home consumption could be regulated under the Agricultural Adjustment Act's quota system on the theory that all wheat production took place within a national market. That decision is regarded as one of the most far-reaching extensions of Congressional power that the Supreme Court has ever upheld.
 Randy E. Barnett, a Boston University Law School professor arguing on behalf of the two women, told the justices on Monday that if they accepted the administration's argument in this case, ''then Ashcroft v. Raich will replace Wickard v. Filburn as the most far-reaching example'' of Congress's power over interstate commerce. Prohibition of ''a class of activity that is noneconomic and wholly intrastate'' was not essential to the government's ''regulatory regime,'' he said, adding: ''There is no interstate connection whatsoever.''
 But the justices whom Mr. Barnett needed to persuade, those who have questioned federal authority in recent cases, were skeptical. ''It looks like Wickard to me,'' Justice Antonin Scalia told him, adding: ''I always used to laugh at Wickard, but that's what Wickard says.'' He continued: ''Why is this not economic activity? This marijuana that's grown is like wheat. Since it's grown, it doesn't have to be bought elsewhere.''
 Mr. Barnett said that relatively few people would meet the medical criteria for legal marijuana use, and that any impact on the overall market for marijuana would therefore be ''trivial.'' The administration, by contrast, has predicted that 100,000 Californians will avail themselves of the statute if the court upholds the Ninth Circuit's ruling.
 Justice David H. Souter asked Mr. Barnett for the population of California. The law professor shrugged. ''Thirty-four million,'' Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, a former resident of Sacramento, interjected.
 In that case, Justice Souter continued, the government's estimate of 100,000 was ''not implausible'' and Mr. Barnett's prediction of a ''trivial'' effect ''seems to me insupportable.'' Justice Souter said the circumstances of the two plaintiffs were ''not a realistic premise on which to base constitutional law.'' His comment suggested that the marijuana advocates' litigation strategy of telling their story through two sympathetic female plaintiffs, especially Ms. Raich, whose physical suffering is evident in her wraith-like features and whose doctor says she would probably die without access to marijuana, might have backfired.
 Justice Stephen G. Breyer told Mr. Barnett that his clients should ask the Food and Drug Administration to reclassify marijuana as appropriate for medical use; a refusal could then be the basis for a lawsuit charging the agency with abusing its discretion. Such a lawsuit would be ''the obvious way to get what they want,'' Justice Breyer said, adding, ''I guess medicine by regulation is better than medicine by referendum.''
 Mr. Clement's argument for the federal government did not go unchallenged. In decisions over the last few years invalidating federal laws dealing with gun possession near schools and with violence against women, the court has found that the activity Congress sought to regulate was insufficiently economic in nature to fall within the power to regulate interstate commerce. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who voted with the majority in those cases, told Mr. Clement that the precedents gave her ''some concerns'' about applying the Controlled Substances Act to the marijuana in this case.
 In response, Mr. Clement said that in contrast to the national market in illicit drugs, the activities Congress addressed in those cases were essentially noneconomic. ''This case is on the constitutional side of the line,'' he said.
 Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, who has been under treatment for thyroid cancer since mid-October, was not in court on Monday. Justice John Paul Stevens, presiding in his absence, announced that the chief justice would take part in the case by reading the briefs and the argument transcript.
 In other action on Monday, the court refused without comment to hear an appeal by the City of Albuquerque from a ruling that struck down campaign spending limits for candidates for local office -- $174,720 for mayor and $17,059 for the City Council.
 The Supreme Court ruled in 1976, in the landmark campaign finance decision in Buckley v. Valeo, that election expenditures were protected by the First Amendment and, unlike contributions, could not be limited. On that basis, the federal appeals court in Denver ruled in April of this year that the Albuquerque limits were unconstitutional. The National Voting Rights Institute, a Boston group that advocates stricter campaign finance limits, brought the appeal in anticipation that the justices might be persuaded to revisit the 1976 precedent. The case was City of Albuquerque v. Homans, No. 04-413.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Angel Raich, left, and Diana Monson at the Supreme Court for arguments in their medical marijuana case. (Photo by J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); INJUNCTIONS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (78%); HERBAL MEDICINE (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CANCER (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (76%); LAWYERS (74%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (73%); AIDS & HIV (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



652 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Drags Down Retailers and the S.&P. 500

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell yesterday as disappointing November sales at Wal-Mart Stores overshadowed signs that retailing generally benefited from the start of the holiday shopping season.
 ''If Wal-Mart is cutting their November forecast, that's enough to outweigh the fact that other retailers had nice sales gains,'' said James McGlynn, who helps manage $6 billion at Summit Investment Partners in Cincinnati. Wal-Mart ''cast a pall.''
 The S.&P. 500 fell 4.08 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,178.57. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 46.33 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,475.90. Wal-Mart contributed the most to declines in both benchmarks. 
 Apple Computer helped lift the Nasdaq composite index to its highest since Jan. 27 after three analysts raised their share-price forecast on the maker of iPod digital music players. The Nasdaq, which gets 42 percent of its value from computer-related shares, gained 4.90 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,106.87.
 In the first 30 minutes of trading, the S.&P. 500 surpassed its three-year closing high set Nov. 12 after preliminary tallies from the Thanksgiving weekend showed retail sales increased from last year. The benchmark was then dragged lower by Wal-Mart, its fifth-biggest company by market value.
 Wal-Mart declined $2.17, or 3.9 percent, to $53.15, for the steepest drop in the Dow average. November sales at United States stores open at least a year rose about 0.7 percent, less than its forecast of 2 percent to 4 percent growth, the company said.
 That outlook damped enthusiasm spurred by data from Visa USA and MasterCard International that showed retail transactions using credit and debit cards increased 9.6 percent and 9.3 percent, respectively, on Friday and Saturday.
 Through Friday, an S.&P. 500 gauge of retailers had the best performance this quarter among the benchmark's 24 industry groups, gaining 13 percent. The measure dropped 1 percent yesterday.
 Optimism that consumer spending will aid profits in the fourth quarter is already reflected in the share prices of retailers, Bill Dreher, an analyst at Deutsche Securities, wrote in a report. He cut his rating on the industry to cautious from neutral.
 Federated Department Stores, which owns Bloomingdale's and Macy's, declined 70 cents, to $56.63. Neiman Marcus slumped $2.62, to $66.58. Mr. Dreher also downgraded the two stocks to hold from buy.
 ''People are worried that sales may fall short, especially with Wal-Mart saying what they said,'' said Scott Vergin, who manages $2.5 billion at Thrivent Financial for Lutherans in Minneapolis.
 Apple climbed $3.89, to $68.44. Its 6 percent rally was the second-biggest in the S.&P. 500. Steven Milunovich, the Merrill Lynch analyst, increased his forecast of the share price by 28 percent, to $78. He also lifted his estimate for iPod shipments in the quarter ending in December to 4 million from 3.5 million.
 Sun Microsystems rose 25 cents, to $5.51. The company whose servers run corporate networks and Web sites agreed to acquire the closely held SevenSpace for an undisclosed amount to increase computer services sales. SevenSpace products feature remote system monitoring of applications and databases from SAP, Oracle and Microsoft.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 22/32, to a price of 99 13/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.32 percent from 4.24 percent on Friday.
 Following are the results of the three-month and six-month Treasury bills auction:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.445	98.789	High Rate	2.195	2.395	Investment Rate	2.238	2.458	Low Rate	2.170	2.360	Median Rate	2.185	2.380	Total appliedfor	$44,084,268	$39,699,187	Accepted	$25,021,108	$23,160,387	Noncompetitive	$1,397,823	$1,005,929	

Both issues are dated Dec. 2, 2004. The three-month bills mature on March 3, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on June 2, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''High rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks bills from August through November.(Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); RETAIL SALES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); THANKSGIVING (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (68%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (67%); DEBIT CARDS (62%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (58%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (53%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Dow Jones Stock Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); VISA INC (81%); MACY'S INC (74%); MASTERCARD INC (65%); THRIVENT FINANCIAL FOR LUTHERANS (60%); SUMMIT INVESTMENT PARTNERS INC (57%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%); V (NYSE) (81%); M (NYSE) (74%); MA (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (74%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (65%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (65%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (57%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



653 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Leader Offers Fresh Election For Ukrainians

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; C.J. Chivers contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
President Leonid D. Kuchma on Monday proposed holding a new election to end the political crisis threatening to tear the country apart, while Ukraine's Supreme Court heard complaints of electoral fraud over last week's presidential election.
 Mr. Kuchma's remarks represented the collapse of what had been a united government position that Prime Minister Viktor F. Yanukovich won the Nov. 21 presidential election, despite evidence of fraud and falsification involving perhaps millions of ballots.
 ''If we really want to maintain peace and accord, and we really want to build a law-governed democratic society of which we have been speaking so much, then let us hold new elections,'' Mr. Kuchma said in televised remarks, after a meeting with city and regional leaders at his residence outside Kiev. 
 Much remained unclear, including whether Mr. Kuchma intended to hold a new runoff between Mr. Yanukovich and his challenger, Viktor A. Yushchenko, which the law does not permit, or a whole new election. Mr. Yushchenko's campaign immediately ruled out the latter.
 Heading off speculation long dogging him that he intended to somehow remain in power himself, Mr. Kuchma said he did not intend to run for what would be a third term. ''It must be clear,'' he said. ''I have had enough.''
 The Bush administration on Monday urged a solution that maintained peace and unity, continuing its tense balancing act between pushing for self-determination in Ukraine and trying to preserve a relationship with Russia. [Page A12.]
 Mr. Yushchenko himself did not immediately respond to Mr. Kuchma's proposal. In fact, he ignored it, declaring to thousands of protesters massed on Independence Square that the struggle over Ukraine's election would be decided by the Supreme Court and Parliament.
 On Monday, the court began considering Mr. Yushchenko's election challenges. The Parliament, after voting Saturday in a nonbinding resolution to declare the election results invalid, is scheduled to meet again on Tuesday. In that meeting, Mr. Yushchenko said, his supporters would demand the resignation of Mr. Yanukovich's government. ''I am begging you to have patience,'' he told the boisterous crowd, making it clear that he was not yet ready to concede an election his supporters believe he rightfully won. He appeared Monday night with military and police officials who have joined his side, signaling a splintering of Mr. Kuchma's authority.
 On the streets of Kiev, Mr. Kuchma's announcement created a heightened sense that the confrontation had tipped Mr. Yushchenko's way. At the London Cigar Club on Kreshchatik Street, the city's main thoroughfare, the manager, Sergey Yaresko, declared a 20 percent holiday sale on Cuban cigars.
 ''We have a new president,'' he said. ''The government has heard the voice of the people.''
 The celebration may be premature. Mr. Kuchma, president for 10 years, has outlasted mass demonstrations before and may yet be trying to find a political solution short of letting Mr. Yushchenko assume office.
 Also, regional leaders in the Russian-speaking eastern half of the country on Sunday threatened to hold referendums on autonomy if the impasse persisted. Hanna German, a spokeswoman for Mr. Yanukovich, said Mr. Kuchma had made his proposal in an effort to find a compromise. However, talks organized after European diplomats mediated between the candidates on Friday appear stalled, in large part because Mr. Yushchenko's side senses momentum.
 Ms. German said the impasse was threatening not only political stability, but also the country's economy, which Mr. Kuchma himself said earlier on Monday could collapse ''like a house of cards'' in a matter of days. There have already been reports of a run on banks and a shortage of dollars as people try to cash in the local currency, the hryvnia, because of the turmoil.
 ''Kuchma is seeking ways to a compromise with the opposition,'' Ms. German said, ''but they reply in the language of ultimatums.''
 Mr. Kuchma reversed his government's stance after eight days of huge street demonstrations that have effectively shut down Kiev and other cities, and after steady diplomatic pressure from the United States and European countries that refused to recognize the election as honest or fair.
 He made his proposal after he spoke by telephone with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who said he had urged Mr. Kuchma to find a peaceful solution that would preserve a unified Ukraine. Mr. Powell's warning was reiterated by political leaders in Europe. ''I reaffirmed to President Kuchma that it is the United States' position, and I think the position of everyone, that the territorial integrity of Ukraine is important, and that we once again reaffirmed that we hope that the Ukrainians would find a legal way forward, as well as a political process based on the constitutional law to resolve the problem they are now having with respect to the last election,'' Mr. Powell said after a meeting with the King of Bahrain.
 Mr. Yushchenko's spokeswoman, Irina Gerashchenko, dismissed Mr. Kuchma's proposal as a ploy. ''They are not prepared to bear the responsibility for the rigging and falsification of the election, and are looking for loopholes to keep power,'' she said. Although Mr. Yushchenko has repeatedly called for a rerun of the runoff vote, Ms. Gerashchenko ruled out any possibility of a new election. ''This will only prolong the agony of the regime,'' she said.
 Mr. Yanukovich, who spoke defiantly on Sunday, appeared to be losing significant support. His campaign manager, Sergei Tihipko, resigned Monday, taking much of his campaign staff with him. He also resigned as chairman of the country's central bank, a position he held even though he oversaw Mr. Yanukovich's campaign. Mr. Tihipko had been one of the prime minister's most prominent spokesmen throughout the campaign.
 He departed saying, ''The best solution to resolve the situation would be holding a rerun of the vote as quickly as possible.'' He appeared later on Channel 5, the main opposition television channel, and said he would not rule out the possibility of running for president himself, in the event of a new election.
 Mr. Yanukovich, who five days ago was declared president-elect only to have the Supreme Court stay his inauguration, suggested that he, too, would accept a new election, though he cited only a rerun in two most fiercely disputed regions -- his home region, Donetsk, and neighboring Lugansk -- and only ''if there is evidence of falsification.''
 He also said that he had sent his family into hiding, perhaps abroad, because of harassment from opposition protesters.
 The controversy over the election consumed an extraordinary session of the Supreme Court. With thousands of protesters assembled outside, the court's 21 judges jousted with lawyers for both candidates over the claims by Mr. Yushchenko's campaign that millions of votes were fraudulently cast and counted. At turns, the chief judge, Anatoly Yarema, chastised both sides for grandstanding.
 In the morning, Justice Yarema accepted into evidence a cardboard box of documents and video and audio cassettes that one of Mr. Yushchenko's lawyers said proved instances of violations of election law. He also accepted secret recordings that Mr. Yushchenko's campaign said included conversations among Mr. Yanukovich's campaign managers indicating that the results were being rigged.
 The source of those recordings remains a mystery, though a senior Western diplomat said in a recent interview that the tapes appeared to be authentic.
 After nearly eight hours of hearings, the court adjourned and scheduled a new session for Tuesday morning.
 Outside, Mr. Yushchenko's supporters listened on loudspeakers. Konstantin Gorbach, a bricklayer from the town of Zhitomir, said he did not need a court ruling to know that the election had not been fair. He said he joined the protests after losing his job because he ignored his boss's order to vote for Mr. Yanukovich.
 How exactly did his boss know how he voted? ''I told him myself,'' he said. ''Why should I conceal it?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Leonid D. Kuchma of Ukraine, left, with Prime Minister Viktor F. Yanukovich at his side, with regional leaders in Kiev yesterday. (Photo by Valeriy Solovyev/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)(pg. A14)Map of Ukraine highlighting Kiev: Eight days of street protests have effectively shut down Kiev. (pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); APPEALS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (79%); POLICE FORCES (69%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (95%) UKRAINE (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



654 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Front Row; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: A Booming Black Market

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
They call the day after Thanksgiving Black Friday because retailers count on it to bring beautiful darkness to their wan ledgers. And among the indications that this season gave vendors reasons to feel cheerful were reports from Shopper Trak, a national survey company, showing that transactions for the day rose by an estimated 10.8 percent over those of last year, to about $8 billion.
 If there is one place where the fiscal effects of Black Friday are harder to track, it is the trade in counterfeit goods. True, certain figures are available. But they tend to register macroeconomic effects like the $1 billion that the New York City comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., said was lost to counterfeiting in 2003. 
 Periodic police sweeps and customs crackdowns have failed to reach consumers in either their panic centers or their conscience, to judge by the mob scenes in Chinatown. From the evidence it seemed obvious that the black market benefited as much as Bloomingdale's from the Black Friday crush.
 Vendors along Canal Street and lower Broadway were thronged at their sidewalk blankets. Higher-end knockoff artists were packing customers into back rooms secreted throughout Chinatown. At New Land Plaza, a minimall on Canal Street, for instance, street-level shops offered the usual Chinatown souvenir gewgaws. Down a flight of stairs were two apparently unused storefronts that probably did more trade than all the others in the building combined.
 All weekend a parade of touts trotted downstairs trailed by buyers as excited by their illicit adventure as by the prospect of a getting a deal. Ducking into spaces whose windows were obscured with mysterious bales that gave them the look of storage lockers, the buyers emerged toting $50 versions of Vuitton's $1,200 Sac de Nuit.
 ''It's among the industry's biggest problems over all at the moment,'' Sidney Toledano, the chief executive at Dior, said in Paris in October. 
 ''We are constantly experimenting with techniques'' to thwart the counterfeiters, Mr. Toledano added, conceding that the copycats keep pace with every deterrent manufacturers throw their way. Lately, Mr. Toledano explained, Dior had experimented with elements of hand-stitched embroidery that would make their products difficult to fake.
 But being bogus is evidently part of the appeal, or so claimed a shopper at the New Land Plaza on Friday. ''You'd have to be out of your mind to pay what they charge for these things uptown,'' said a consumer who would identify herself only as Carol from Summit, N.J. The bag she bought was a version of Dior's logo coin purse, a blue canvas clutch with jumbled logo letters and a shiny dangling D. Did it look altogether authentic? It did not. ''So what,'' said the shopper. ''I like the fact that it's a knockoff. It makes it kind of cute.'' GUY TREBAY


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stalls like this one, loaded with Vuitton-style bags and others, abound in Chinatown. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); THANKSGIVING (91%); COUNTERFEITING (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (69%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Counterfeit Merchandise; Retail Stores and Trade; Vendors, Street

PERSON: SIDNEY TOLEDANO (65%) Guy Trebay

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; Chinatown (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



655 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Albany Study Finds Ethics Flaws In Sale of Rights to the Erie Canal

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
A state authority's deal to sell the rights to develop private land along the Erie Canal to a developer for $30,000 was plagued by favoritism and illegal ethical lapses, according to a report by the state attorney general and a gubernatorial appointee.
 The report by the attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, and the state inspector general, Jill Konviser-Levine, accused the New York State Canal Corporation of doling out inside information for its favored developer and steering him to a lobbyist to help his effort to obtain the land. It said the developer claimed that authority officials had prompted him to make campaign contributions to Republicans.
 In releasing the report at a news conference in Buffalo, Mr. Spitzer, who is likely to run for governor in 2006, pivoted away from his usual targets, like misdeeds on Wall Street or in the insurance industry, and toward the inner workings of Albany and ethical issues in the capital. As Mr. Spitzer enumerated myriad glitches in the authority's handling of the Erie Canal land deal, he suggested there were deeper problems that deserved attention. 
 ''This is a morality tale that weaves together all the failures of state government,'' said Mr. Spitzer. ''The failure of authorities, the failure of lobbying, the failure of internal ethics.''
 He continued: ''It feeds right into the vortex of the issue that is, I think, gripping Albany right now, which is, 'How do you change government to take advantage of development opportunities, make government accountable and ensure that down the road these sorts of failures do not repeat themselves?'''
 Though the practices the report uncovered fell short of criminality, Mr. Spitzer said they served as a cautionary tale of ''government gone wrong.'' In recent years, particularly in the administration of Gov. George E. Pataki, there have been increased calls for oversight of state authorities, the powerful, quasi-public corporations that run many vital parts of the state's infrastructure.
 Mr. Spitzer called the Erie Canal episode a lesson on the need to overhaul the system of lobbying for lucrative state contracts.
 Though the deal was long in the making, the authority decided, in 2002, to approve a contract granting the developer, Richard A. Hutchens of Buffalo, exclusive access rights to cut private canals into as much as 45 miles, about 9 percent of the 524-mile canal system.
 Then, last year, after Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester, uncovered certain details of the contract at public hearings, the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, rescinded his approval of the contract.
 Mr. Pataki then called for an investigation of the land deal, two days after Mr. Hevesi accused Canal Corporation officials of steering a contract to a favored developer and trying to cover it up. 
 The 75-page report released on Monday found that senior officials at the Canal Corporation had no experience or expertise in economic development and had failed to carry out basic research, like checking Mr. Hutchens's background. They also withheld important information from the Canal Corporation's directors about Mr. Hutchens's lack of experience, Mr. Spitzer said.
 According to the report, the officials did not tell board members about Mr. Hutchens's failure to perform on a previous Canal Corporation venture, Rather, it said, they became so caught up in the project as Mr. Hutchens envisioned it that they never sought alternative bids, nor did they reach out to other developers for advice.
 Mr. Spitzer and Ms. Konviser-Levine said that the conduct they uncovered warranted penalties against Canal Corporation personnel but that the people linked to the misconduct were no longer employed by the state, so they could not be charged with violations of the Code of Ethics of the State Public Officers Law.
 Both officials said the law should be changed to cover former state employees so that criminal and civil penalties could be doled out, and Mr. Spitzer praised Mr. Pataki for submitting a bill to do just that.
 Officials said the effort represented a squandered opportunity for the state to bring the waterway, completed in 1825 as a link between the Eastern Seaboard and the American heartland, into the modern era as an economic tool.
 Kevin C. Quinn, a spokesman for the governor, noted that Mr. Pataki had asked for the report and said that its findings would be reviewed.
 ''Since 1996, the governor has been pushing to reform the state's ethics law and enact tougher measures, including closing the specific loophole in the law that the attorney general and inspector general cited,'' said Mr. Quinn. '' As we move forward, the governor is going to continue his push to toughen the ethics law and reform state government.''
 Michael R. Fleischer, the executive director of the State Thruway Authority, which oversees the Canal Corporation, said the agency began taking steps in July to address what the report found. ''We have implemented new policies and procedures that require an open and competitive process,'' Mr. Fleischer said.
 Earlier on Monday, Mr. Spitzer called for strengthening the law to ban lobbying for state contracts, and to drastically lower the current $75 limit on gifts that lobbyists can give to state lawmakers. He made the recommendations in written testimony that he submitted to a hearing called by the state's lobbying commission, which is seeking to strengthen the lobbying laws.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Part of the Erie Canal in Clay, N.Y., looking east toward Oneida Lake. Access to about 45 miles of the canal was sold in 2002 by an obscure agency to a favored developer for $30,000. The contract was later canceled. (Photo by Chris Rank for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); LOBBYING (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (84%); APPROVALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LAWYERS (74%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); INSURANCE (53%) Ethics; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Finances; Elections

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Canal Corporation Board (NYS)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Al Baker; Eliot L (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Jill (Inspector Gen) Konviser-Levine; Richard A Hutchens

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Erie Canal (NYS); Erie Canal (NYS)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



656 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: 6% Growth Surprises Government In Philippines

BYLINE: By CARLOS H. CONDE

DATELINE: MANILA, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
The Philippine economy grew by more than 6 percent in the third quarter, beating the expectations of economists and surprising the administration of President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, the government said on Monday.
 The economy grew 6.3 percent in the quarter, compared with 4.8 percent a year earlier. Officials said a robust performance in agriculture and services, which grew 7.9 percent and 7.1 percent, respectively, helped lift the overall number. 
 ''This is much better than what many analysts and multilateral agencies had predicted,'' said Romulo Neri, who heads the National Economic Development Authority and is the country's chief economist. ''We beat all their expectations, including our own.''
 The performance pushed growth for the first three quarters this year to 6.5 percent, Mr. Neri said, adding that the economy will probably surpass the rather low predictions for 2004.
 ''We can carry this momentum through the year and the next,'' Mr. Neri said in an interview. The Asian Development Bank earlier forecast the economy to grow 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent this year. The government's 2004 forecast ranged from 4.9 percent to 5.8 percent.
 Aside from services and agriculture, manufacturing grew by 4.5 percent, while exports increased 4.9 percent.
 In a statement from Laos, where she was attending the summit meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Mrs. Arroyo thanked the country's trading partners, notably the United States, Japan, the Southeast Asian countries and China, which she described as ''a boon to us.''
 ''I am glad to note that our economic growth keeps apace with the region and the world, notwithstanding the challenges that we faced since the beginning of the year, such as the steep climb in world oil prices and our efforts to move toward fiscal consolidation,'' Mrs. Arroyo said.
 The Philippines has been grappling with a huge public debt and a gaping budget deficit. Efforts by the government to increase revenue are focused on raising taxes and creating new ones, as well as divesting itself of debt-laden corporations, like National Power, the government electric utility.
 Political infighting, however, has delayed the carrying out of these measures. The economy grew by 4.5 percent last year, one of the lowest rates in the region.
 Domestic political uncertainty drove foreign direct investment in 2003 down to $319 million, compared with $1.8 billion in 2002, although the government said investment had begun to revive. Total investment in the first nine months, including foreign and domestic, rose 322 percent, to 148.2 billion pesos, or $2.64 billion, according to the trade department.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Agriculture in the Philippines grew at a 7.9 percent rate in the quarter. A farmer worked in a rice field on Marinduque Island, south of Manila. (Photo by Erik de Castro/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (64%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (61%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); DIVESTITURES (60%) Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (54%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (69%)

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (89%) Carlos H Conde

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%) PHILIPPINES (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (70%) Philippines

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



657 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Congress Trims Money for Science Agency

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
Congress has cut the budget for the National Science Foundation, an engine for research in science and technology, just two years after endorsing a plan to double the amount given to the agency.
 Supporters of scientific research, in government and at universities, noted that the cut came as lawmakers earmarked more money for local projects like the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland and the Punxsutawney Weather Museum in Pennsylvania.
 David M. Stonner, director of Congressional affairs at the science foundation, said on Monday that the reduction might be just the beginning of a period of austerity. Congress, Mr. Stonner said, told the agency to expect ''a series of flat or slightly declining budgets for the next several years.'' 
 In renewing the legal authority for science programs in late 2002, Congress voted to double the budget of the science foundation by 2007. The agency finances the work and training of many mathematicians, physicists, chemists, engineers, computer scientists, biologists and environmental experts.
 The $388 billion spending bill for the current fiscal year, approved by both houses of Congress on Nov. 20, provides $5.473 billion for the National Science Foundation, which is $105 million less than it got last year and $272 million less than President Bush requested.
 Representative Vernon J. Ehlers, Republican of Michigan, said the cut was ''extremely short-sighted'' and showed ''dangerous disregard for our nation's future.''
 ''I am astonished that we would make this decision at a time when other nations continue to surpass our students in math and science and consistently increase their funding of basic research,'' said Mr. Ehlers, a former physics professor who is chairman of a technology subcommittee. ''The National Science Foundation supports technological innovation that is crucial to the sustained economic prosperity that America has enjoyed for several decades.''
 Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, said the cut was ''the most Luddite provision'' in the entire bill.
 Republicans who helped write the measure said the reduction was a necessary part of an overall effort to hold down domestic spending. 
 Congress, with bipartisan support, doubled the budget of the National Institutes of Health from 1998 to 2003, and Mr. Bush often takes credit for completing that increase. But Mr. Obey said that biomedical research was ''heavily dependent on basic initial research done by agencies like the National Science Foundation.''
 Diagnostic imaging techniques, like magnetic resonance imaging and PET scans, depend heavily on physics, just as research on the human genome depends heavily on computers to catalog and analyze billions of bits of data. 
 Dr. Harold E. Varmus, former director of the National Institutes of Health, said the budget cut was ''very distressing.''
 Dr. Varmus, now president of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, said: ''We have the ability to understand the genome of the cancer cell in our hands. But we need computational improvements, faster and better machinery and software to compare the genome of cancer cells with the genome of normal cells.''
 While cutting the budget of the science foundation, Congress found money for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame in Birmingham, the Country Music Hall of Fame in Nashville, bathhouses in Hot Springs, Ark., and hundreds of similar projects.
 The science foundation helped finance research that led to Web browsers, like Internet Explorer and Netscape, and to search engines like Google. Its research has produced advances in fields from astronomy to zoology, including weather forecasting, nanotechnology, highway safety and climate change. 
 At the University of Southern California, the foundation is supporting research on an artificial retina, to restore sight to blind people, and on silicon chips that could be implanted in the brain to replace neurons damaged by disease or injury.
 Cornelius W. Sullivan, vice provost for research at the university, in Los Angeles, said the budget cut ''sends a very bad signal to scientists.''
 Mr. Stonner, of the science foundation, said the cut would erode the confidence of graduate students and encourage professors to be more conservative in conceiving and pursuing new ideas -- just the opposite of what the agency wants.
 ''We hope a lot of researchers will think wild and crazy thoughts,'' Mr. Stonner said. ''That's how you get breakthroughs in science.''
 Todd C. Mesek, a spokesman for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, which is receiving $350,000, said the money would be well spent on education programs to teach children about language, the mathematics of music and geography (''cities where rock and roll was fostered''). Some of the money, Mr. Meek said, will be used for ''toddler rock,'' a music therapy program.
 One of the more contentious provisions in the bill provides $12 million for the Yazoo Backwater Pumping Plant in Mississippi.
 Senators Trent Lott and Thad Cochran of Mississippi, both Republicans, defended the project, saying it would prevent floods, save lives and protect homes and businesses.
 But Melissa A. Samet, a lawyer at American Rivers, an environmental group, said: ''It's a horrible project. It will drain wetlands so that farmers can intensify production. In the process, it will damage natural resources that are vital to wildlife and clean water.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Cuts for Research''Congress has cut the budget of the National Science Foundation by $105 million, or 2 percent, though two years ago it endorsed a plan that would have doubled the agency's budget.Graph tracks budget for the National Science Foundation in the billions since 1985.For fiscal years ending Sept. 30.(Source by National Science Foundation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE FUNDING (91%); BUDGETS (91%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PHYSICS (89%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (85%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BIOLOGY (73%); CANCER (73%); GENOMICS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); NUCLEAR MEDICINE (63%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (94%)

PERSON: DAVE OBEY (79%); VERNON J EHLERS (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004



658 of 658 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Bush Nominates Kellogg Executive for Commerce Secretary

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON; Melanie Warner contributed reporting from New York for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
President Bush on Monday nominated Carlos M. Gutierrez, among the most prominent Hispanic business executives in the United States, to be his commerce secretary, as the president continued with what Republicans said would be a broad overhaul of his cabinet.
 Mr. Gutierrez, 51, has been chief executive of the Kellogg Company, the cereal maker, for more than five years, and has built a reputation as an innovative and forceful business leader with broad international experience. But he has little background in public policy, leaving him largely unknown in political circles and untested by the demands of a high-profile job in Washington. 
 ''He understands the world of business, from the first rung on the ladder to the very top,'' Mr. Bush said, with Mr. Gutierrez at his side in the Roosevelt Room at the White House. ''He knows exactly what it takes to help American businesses grow and to create jobs.''
 In announcing his choice, Mr. Bush continued a comprehensive reshaping of his team as he prepared for his second term. Six cabinet secretaries have already resigned, and one person with close ties to the White House said Republicans had been told to expect as many as half a dozen additional departures.
 Tom Ridge, the homeland security secretary, is very likely to step aside, but not until the White House lines up a successor, associates of Mr. Ridge said. At a time when the administration is preparing big pushes on Mr. Bush's plans to remake Social Security and the tax code, there has been growing talk in Republican circles that the senior member of the economic team, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, might leave in the first half of next year, if not sooner. White House officials have made no effort to discourage speculation that Norman Y. Mineta, the transportation secretary and the cabinet's only Democrat, will resign soon.
 Mr. Gutierrez, whose nomination is subject to Senate confirmation, would replace Donald L. Evans, a close friend and political counselor to Mr. Bush. Mr. Evans announced this month that he was leaving Washington to return home to Texas.
 Assuming he is confirmed, taking his new job will entail a significant pay cut for Mr. Gutierrez. Last year he was paid $7.4 million by Kellogg in total compensation, including salary, bonus and incentive payments. He owns or has option rights to two million shares of company stock. Cabinet secretaries earned an annual salary of $175,700 this year.
 The change at the Commerce Department is just one of many among the president's economic team. N. Gregory Mankiw, the chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers, is expected to leave within months to return to his professorship at Harvard. Stephen Friedman, the former Wall Street executive who has been director of the National Economic Council for two years, announced last week that he would resign. 
 Mr. Gutierrez represents a break with what had become the traditional mold for commerce secretaries: close friends and advisers to the president who are as much political animals as economic policy makers. Mr. Gutierrez first met Mr. Bush four years ago at a Hispanic conference in Washington, a spokeswoman for Kellogg said, and he also attended an economic conference held by Mr. Bush in Texas just before the president took office in early 2001. According to records maintained by the Center for Responsive Politics, a group that tracks campaign donations, Mr. Gutierrez did not contribute to Mr. Bush's campaigns in either 2000 or 2004, though he did give money to some Republican House candidates.
 Mr. Bush, eager to name a commerce secretary who had run a large corporation, met privately with Mr. Gutierrez two weeks ago at the White House for what amounted to a job interview, a senior administration official said, and came away impressed. 
 People who know Mr. Gutierrez said that his views on economic issues closely tracked those of Mr. Bush, and that he was especially knowledgeable on trade, currency issues and the problems facing American manufacturers in a competitive global economy.
 ''He's probably the most internationally oriented and experienced commerce secretary we've ever had,'' said John Engler, the former Republican governor of Michigan who is now president of the National Association of Manufacturers.
 In addition, Mr. Gutierrez, who was born in Cuba, also has an undeniable political appeal for the White House, which has worked hard to keep the support of Cuban-Americans in Florida and cultivate greater support from the fast-growing Hispanic population nationwide. And he has a compelling personal story, having been forced to leave Cuba in 1960 at the age of 7 after his father was threatened by Fidel Castro. He never completed college and got his start with Kellogg in the 1970's in Mexico City driving a cereal delivery truck.
 ''It says a great deal about the president's commitment to the Hispanic community and to the Cuban exile community in particular,'' said Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Republican of Florida, who was also born in Cuba and promoted Mr. Gutierrez to the White House. ''We're ecstatic because he's a symbol of the Cuban success stories, coming here without a penny to his name and rising up the corporate ladder to become a C.E.O. of a major company.''
 In Cuba before the communist takeover in 1959, Mr. Gutierrez's father was a successful exporter of pineapples. In an article written about his experiences for The New York Times in 2001, Mr. Gutierrez wrote that his family ''was part of Cuba's high society, but the Cuban Revolution changed all that.''
 He recounted his father's being taken away and detained for a day or two by Mr. Castro's forces in 1960, and then fleeing immediately afterward to the United States. The family of four was allowed to take $8,000 with them, plus 31 bags of clothing.
 Mr. Gutierrez became an American citizen in 1966, after the family moved to New York. In the 1970's, his father moved the family to Mexico, and in 1975, Mr. Gutierrez began his career with Kellogg there. He rose rapidly, eventually running the company's operations in Mexico and Canada before taking on top corporate jobs at Kellogg's headquarters in Battle Creek, Mich. He became Kellogg's president in 1998 and chief executive a year later.
 In the company's hometown, Mr. Gutierrez achieved a degree of notoriety for closing the company's flagship factory in Battle Creek in 2000, eliminating 500 jobs. But he won high marks from Wall Street for turning what had been a lackluster company into a top performer in the food business.
 During his tenure, Kellogg's stock outperformed the market, rising 60 percent. Kellogg's net sales rose to $8.8 billion last year from $6.2 billion in 1999. Earnings per share increased 130 percent.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Carlos M. Gutierrez, whose family fled Cuba in 1960 and who rose to become Kellogg's chief executive, was chosen as commerce secretary. (Photo by Paul Sancya/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); BONUS PAY (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); BREAKFAST CEREAL MFG (57%); TAX LAW (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (85%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (85%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (85%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (85%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004

 
