

601 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1566 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Minefields Abound in Attempts to Reduce Debts

BYLINE:  By KAREN ALEXANDER 

 BODY:
A FEW years ago, Robin Hardy was taking home about $300 a week as a secretary in Riverside, Calif. -- barely enough to cover the essentials. Soon, she found herself paying for gasoline, car insurance and groceries by credit card. 
 As the bills piled up, her finances spiraled out of control. Mrs. Hardy was about $6,900 in debt when she received an e-mail pitch two summers ago from a company offering to negotiate with creditors to lower her debt. 
 With consumer debt at an all-time high, people like Mrs. Hardy are being deluged with phone calls, e-mail messages, television and radio commercials and letters peddling various forms of credit repair, credit consolidation and debt counseling. 
Some services offer effective, affordable ways to manage or consolidate debt, but experts warn that many others can lead already desperate customers into deeper financial problems. "There are legitimate firms out there, but there are a plethora of companies that fall into the nonlegitimate category," said Jennifer Larabee, a lawyer at the Federal Trade Commission in Los Angeles.
As Barbara Anthony, the director of the Northeast office of the F.T.C. in New York, put it: "During any downtick in the economy, you're going to find an increase in the con artists who take advantage of people in difficult financial circumstances." 
Mrs. Hardy, now 38, said she received a sales pitch that offered her hope. "When you're drowning and you can't get your head above water," she said, "this made you feel like there was an honest way to get out of trouble." 
Mrs. Hardy responded to the e-mail solicitation and eventually spoke with a telemarketer in Phoenix. He chatted with her about her church and promised that she would emerge from the program in 16 months or less with perfect credit, she said. At his urging, she added, she signed a contract with Jubilee Financial Services of Downey, Calif., in August 2000.
A year later, though she had paid Jubilee some $4,000, none of her debt had been reduced, she said. Creditors were still hounding her, and with the interest and late charges that were accruing on her accounts, her debt more than doubled, to about $15,000. Jubilee representatives were difficult or impossible to reach, she said, and they had no answers about her accounts.
Her credit in ruins, Mrs. Hardy filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in December.
Ms. Larabee of the F.T.C. said, "This particular company told consumers that they could negotiate their unsecured credit card debts and that consumers would end up paying pennies on the dollar." 
Last month, the agency filed a civil suit in Federal District Court in Los Angeles against Jubilee, contending that the company misled clients.
THE case is part of a nationwide sweep announced by the F.T.C. on Sept. 5 called "Operation No-Credit." The agency and state law enforcement agencies have filed 43 actions against what they call telemarketing schemes involving advance-fee credit cards, credit repair, payday loans, debt adjustment and debt negotiation -- all of which can gravely hurt a victim's credit.
Malcolm McNeil, a Los Angeles lawyer who represents Jubilee and its president, John E. Gustavsen, said Jubilee has succeeded in reducing about $7 million worth of client debt over the last several years. Those who have filed complaints, he said, have usually not held up their end of the financial bargain. Mr. McNeil would not comment on Mrs. Hardy's situation.
As the case proceeds, the assets of Jubilee have been frozen and it has been forced out of business. But more than 1,400 consumers put their trust in Jubilee, and at least $2 million that is supposed to be in their accounts is missing, said Adrian Stern, an Encino, Calif., accountant who is serving as Jubilee's court-appointed receiver.
"My feeling is the numbers will continue to climb the more we learn about this case," Mr. Stern said. "I've talked to people who just scraped together the last of their money, mailed it to Jubilee last month and now they're totally out of luck."
Mrs. Hardy's experience is typical, Ms. Larabee said. She paid a $199 enrollment fee and agreed to have $250 deducted from her checking account every month. She said she was told that the money would go into an account that Jubilee would use to pay off her creditors and that she was not to pay any creditors herself.
Two creditors filed suit against Mrs. Hardy in late 2000, but she said that Jubilee telephone counselors told her to ignore the subpoenas. A month later, when her wages were garnished because she had not gone to court, she decided that she had been taken.
"They were taking 25 percent of my pay before taxes," she said of the garnishment. "I didn't make that much money. You could end up where you're on the street."
Mrs. Hardy sued Mr. Gustavsen in small-claims court -- and won. He appealed twice but eventually agreed to drop his appeal and refunded her $4,000.
It may seem a small victory, considering that the bankruptcy will remain on her credit report for seven years. Mrs. Hardy, who was married a year ago and is now working at a new job that pays considerably better than her last one, said she would prefer to put the incident behind her but felt compelled to speak out. 
"It's embarrassing to me that I had to file for bankruptcy, but he put me in a situation where I didn't have a choice," she said of Mr. Gustavsen. "Now I have to talk about this because there are other companies doing what he did and they have to be stopped. Just last night while we were having dinner, three different companies came on the TV advertising debt management. I want to tell people, 'Take your money and run the other way.' "
Other consumers say they, too, have been swamped with such messages. Brian Hill, 30, a graduate student in Pittsburgh, said that he receives at least 10 solicitations a day by e-mail, regular mail and telephone related to credit and refinancing. 
"I know we probably look attractive to some of these people because we do shift our debt around a fair amount, but I would never trust one of these solicitations," he said. "They have all the look of a pornography solicitation, which I also get a lot on my e-mail. As far as I can tell, the content varies, but the look and the tone of them are constant."
There are reputable ways to manage debt, Ms. Larabee said. 
"It's not a good sign if somebody tells you to stop paying your bills," she said. "You've run up those debts. To not pay them just puts you in the position where someone can sue you to collect them." 
And if it sounds too easy, it probably is. "If anybody tells you they're going to resolve your debt and you'll have perfect credit, hang up the phone. They are lying to you," said Harvey Warren, president of the National Consumer Council, a nonprofit organization in Washington that acts as a referral service for people looking to work with a debt recovery company.
"The act of resolving your debts is a very complex financial transaction, and there are penalties for settling your debts," he said. "You either have to pay your bills in full and have a good credit rating or pay your bills in part and understand you're going to have a bad credit rating."
In debt recovery, private companies negotiate on a debtor's behalf -- for a fee -- and try to have the debt reduced. Creditors often pay such companies a fee for helping to recover some of what they are owed. 
While some companies might not meet their obligations, Mr. Warren said, others can help debtors escape some of their burden without declaring bankruptcy, particularly if the debtors have a genuine claim of hardship. "I know a number of these companies that actually do this and succeed," Mr. Warren said. "There are some good used-car salesmen and some bad. The same is true in credit recovery."
ONE warning sign is high fees.
Some companies charge hundreds of dollars for their services, but there is a nationwide network of nonprofit credit counseling services that are held to particular standards and low fee scales. These agencies can be found through the National Foundation for Credit Counseling, an umbrella organization that oversees about 150 such organizations with 1,300 locations (www.nfcc.org; 800 388-2227). Most but not all member agencies are called Consumer Credit Counseling Services.
Member agencies were contacted by nearly 1.5 million households in 2001. The average fees were $14 for budget counseling, $19 to enroll in a debt management plan and $12 a month to service the accounts.
According to a study by the Georgetown University Credit Research Center, borrowers who received such counseling reduced their debt and improved their credit profiles over a three-year period better than similar borrowers who did not receive counseling.
"It's really up to each consumer to do their own due diligence and homework, as they would if they were buying a house or a car," said Lydia Sermons-Ward, a spokeswoman for the foundation in Silver Spring, Md.
Additional information on consumer protection issues is available from the F.T.C. at www.ftc.gov/ftc/consumer.htm.
In particular, Ms. Larabee suggests checking with the Better Business Bureau and the state attorney general's office before signing on with any credit counseling or debt consolidation company. More than 300 complaints, dating as far back as early 2001, have been lodged against Jubilee with the Better Business Bureau of the Southland, in Colton, Calif.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robin Hardy said she paid a credit-repair company $4,000 but found a year later that her none of her debt had been cut; after interest and late charges, it more than doubled. (Gerard Burkhart for The New York Times) Chart: "Overextended"Personal debt reached a high last year, exceeding personal income by almost 10 percent, and helping to increase the rate of bankruptcies. Graph tracks personal debt as a percentage of personal income from 1980-2000OTHERMORTGAGE DEBTCONSUMER DEBT Graph tracks consumer bankruptcies per 1,000 adults from 1980-2000 (Source: Economic Policy Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (76%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); TELEMARKETING (75%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LAWYERS (69%); LITIGATION (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%) CREDIT; CONSUMER PROTECTION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: ALEXANDER, KAREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



602 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: Humiliation Sells 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WALKER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
A YOUNG man slouches on a sofa in a seedy apartment. On the table before him a ferret chatters ominously. Man and beast glare at each other for a few malevolent moments. Suddenly, the ferret torpedoes through the air and sinks its teeth into the man's tongue. Screaming, he grabs a cellphone and taps out S O S before stumbling, ferret still thrashing, into the street.
 A scene from the latest Farrelly brothers movie? No, it's a 30-second television commercial for Verizon Wireless. The advertisement, created by Bozell, a New York agency, is meant to tub-thump Verizon's foray into wireless text messaging, a service hugely popular among young people in Europe but still emerging in the United States. But what makes the ad memorable besides its absurd premise -- a ferret and a slacker who hate each other? -- is its unvarnished use of cartoonish violence for laughs. 
 Verizon's ferret spot is an example of a trend that has been gathering momentum since the late 1990's and that now increasingly influences the look, feel and attitude of mainstream commercials. The boldest of these ads are unapologetically dark, with the sort of black humor right at home on Comedy Central and the Fox Network, and alongside shows like "Dog Eat Dog" on NBC. This neo-slapstick approach is being embraced not only by niche brands but by bulwarks of middle-American consumerism like Excedrin, Windex and Kraft. 
Brash and often wildly inventive, the ads are increasingly seen as a way to reach under-25 viewers for whom television is merely another spoke in a personal media hub that includes the Internet, cellphones, pagers, song-file sharing and video games, and who have delivered pratfall-laden shows like "Jackass," on MTV, to prominence.
"I do think we're like an instant-gratification generation," said Kim Gallina, 28, of Bozell, who wrote the ferret ad. "A lot of times, I'll be watching TV while I'm on the Internet and possibly on the phone at the same time."
The brand of humor in the ads, pitched at a rowdy, Generation Y sensibility, can take some getting used to. Commercials for Mike's Hard Lemonade and Hard Iced Tea, for example, have depicted limbs hacked off by an ax and bitten off by a marine mammal, a construction worker impaled with a length of rebar, and an office worker morose because he has grown a hideous "Aliens"-like second head.
Pain and humiliation are constant themes. In an Excedrin ad, a woman annoyed with her dinner date throws a glass of water in his face, a spot for Samuel Adams beer ends with a pool player getting a dart in the derriere, cartilage-crunching sound effects accompany a fistfight between two boys in an ad for a Kraft cheese snack, a hapless grocery clerk is felled by a pineapple in a Southwest Airlines spot.
Henry Jenkins, director of comparative media studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said such blithe nihilism appeals to post-baby boomers because many were raised in an environment of unrelenting political correctness.
"We have a generation now that equates political incorrectness with a release from constraint," Mr. Jenkins said. "Violence becomes a source of comedy for this generation because they know that violence will be shocking to their parents, teachers or other authority figures. What's funny to them is what trounces authority, so advertisers try to tap the youth demographic by taking that attitude toward political correctness, saying in effect, 'We're no more constrained by middle-class values than you are. We're hip. We're free.' "
Jerry Della Femina, the advertising innovator and chairman of Della Femina, Rothschild, Jeary & Partners, said such ads are the inevitable product of 20-something sensibilities.
"My generation read," Mr. Della Femina said. "Our humor came from words. I grew up on the comedies of Billy Wilder. Humor was a raised eyebrow going up. This generation grew up on images. Their humor is going to come from movies like 'American Pie.' So their sense of humor is going to be different."
"This is a much tougher audience to get through to," he said. "They have to be hit over the head with a sledgehammer to make them laugh." 
Animals come in for particular abuse in the new ads: Windex wipes away the smear left after a bird-chasing cat collides with a window; an irksome rooster is hurled out of a barn at lethal speed in a California Milk Advisory Board commercial. (The animals depicted in these ads, advertisers hasten to point out, are computer-generated or are mechanical facsimiles, including the ferret.)
Advertisers acknowledge that they may be alienating viewers with ads like these. "There's a risk with this kind of humor," said Eric Hirshberg, managing partner and creative director for the Deutsch L. A. agency. "It has to be rooted in human insight or it runs the risk of being gratuitous. Slapstick goes right only when it's a cathartic expression." 
Mr. Hirshberg cites the spot his agency produced for the California Milk Advisory Board, in which two cows awakened by a strutting rooster retaliate by causing it to be catapulted against a metal container. ("Hit the snooze," one cow says to the other.) "People want to slam their hand on the snooze alarm," Mr. Hirshberg said. "If your snooze alarm happens to be a rooster, then you can relate to it." 
Kraig Williams, senior brand manager for Kraft cheese snacks, said the rambunctious ad for the company's Rip-Ums pull-apart cheese strips underscores the playful qualities of the product. "We're not suggesting kids go duke it out with each other," he said. The graphic sound of the boys slugging each other, he said, was chosen to amplify, in tongue-in-cheek fashion, the ad's tag: "Kids need strong bones." 
Eric Webber, vice president and marketing director for the GSD&M agency in Austin, Tex., said it considered having the supermarket clerk in the Southwest Airlines ad catch the pineapple hurled by a fantasizing football fan but decided he should instead get knocked over. Why? "It was his reaction -- he doesn't expect it," Mr. Webber said. "It was just funnier when he gets hit and falls over."
According to Tony Granger, the Bozell agency's managing partner and executive creative director, Verizon's ferret spot has "not alienated anyone." (It did bring a rebuke from the Ferrets Unlimited Ferret Shelter in Cleveland, which asked Verizon executives to apologize on national television for promoting "their text messaging service at the expense of ferrets.") 
Ms. Gallina said that because Verizon's ferret ad was intended for 20-somethings, "we weren't too worried, because the people who would think it was gross weren't exactly in our target market." Lauren Williman, the commercial's 24-year-old art director, added, "People who think it's gross are usually more our grandparents." 
Extreme humor is justified to help smaller brands stand out against established brands with much larger advertising budgets, said Eric Silver, creative director of Cliff Freeman & Partners, the New York agency that produced the Mike's Hard Lemonade commercials. "Our goal is to get viewers' attention by any means," he said.
Mr. Silver's agency helped define the take-no-prisoners genre with its 1998 spots for Outpost.com, a consumer-electronics Web site. The ads depicted make-believe gerbils fired out of a cannon against a wall, and a high school marching band attacked by wolves. (They ended with the tag: "Send complaints to Outpost.com.")
The agency also produced a series of commercials for Budget Rent-a-Car that portrayed Budget executives considering amenities like personal jet-propulsion packs, resulting in one customer rocketing into high-voltage lines and disappearing in a shower of sparks. Besides winning several industry awards, the Outpost.com ads increased sales by more than 300 percent in the first quarter the campaign ran, Mr. Silver said.
Until recently, such high jinks would have been impossible to depict with the realism that is the hallmark of these commercials. But advances in digital special effects have made them both possible and cost-effective.
Advertisers, said Alex Chisholm, Mr. Jenkins's associate at M.I.T., are acutely aware that they are competing in an arena where special effects in blockbuster movies, video games and even television have raised the bar for realistic-looking artifice.
" 'Something About Mary,' 'Meet the Parents,' and 'Shallow Hal' are happening in the same pop cultural space, in terms of making fun and doing cartoonish things in a real way, and those films have made $100 million," Mr. Chisholm said.
Likewise, the blizzard of competing media makes it mandatory that one's commercial cut through the clutter, leading to commercials that don't look like, well, commercials. Mr. Jenkins said he first became aware of Verizon's ferret ad while fast-forwarding through some commercials on his TiVo player. "It was so eye-catching I went back to see what it was," he said. "It drowns out all the commercials around it."
Because advertising creative executives are typically in their late 20's and early 30's, they tend to draw inspiration from pop culture that resonates with them and their peers, like the movies "The Sweetest Thing" and "Road Trip," Ms. Gallina said.
Some reach back to the mists of the 1970's. "I think a lot of my taste comes from 'Monty Python,' 'Saturday Night Live,' even the original 'Letterman,' " said Mr. Silver, who is 35. "It was edgy, it was absurd and it totally took chances." 
Indeed, the darker reaches of the genre are a validation of the humor espoused by the late Michael O'Donoghue, as practiced at The National Lampoon in the 70's and during his stints as a writer and performer on "Saturday Night Live." The Lampoon's celebrated cover depicting a dog with a pistol to its temple and the headline "If you don't buy this magazine, we'll kill this dog" is an almost perfect encapsulation of the current trend. Verizon's ferret ad recalls the anarchic spirit of Mr. O'Donoghue's "Saturday Night Live" sketch in which he impersonated Ed Sullivan after knitting needles were supposedly driven into his eyeballs. (Ms. Gallina and Ms. Williman said they had never heard of Mr. O'Donoghue or the sketch.)
Whatever their source, these commercials fulfill the first rule of successful advertising: they get noticed.
"The most important thing is to get someone's attention," Mr. Della Femina said. "Whether you do it by humor or shock value, you have to find a way to get people to look up and say, 'I saw that commercial.' " 
Mr. Della Femina said that the humor in some of these ads will inevitably mystify older generations, which, he said, is as it should be.
"My way of judging them is that if I'm really shocked, they're really getting through," he said. "The more I'm horrified, the better the commercial probably is."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, Page 12 of Money & Business on Sunday was interchanged with Page 12 of Sunday Styles in some copies. The error misplaced the continuations of three articles -- one about the economic uncertainty that is slowing businesses' spending; one about the murky line between companies' philanthropies and those of their chief executives; and one about the uses of humiliation in a new generation of television commercials. The full articles may be found online today, at nytimes.com/corrections.
Because of a production error, Page 12 of Money & Business last Sunday was interchanged with Page 12 of Sunday Styles in some copies. The error misplaced the continuations of three articles -- one about the economic uncertainty that is slowing businesses' spending; one about the murky line between companies' philanthropies and those of their chief executives; and one about the uses of humiliation in a new generation of television advertising. The full articles may be found online today, at nytimes.com/corrections.

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE OUCH FACTOR -- Rowdy pratfalls in many ads pitched at young consumers (from top, Verizon Wireless's ferret attack, Excedrin's annoying date and Kraft's backseat fight) suggest that the influence of TV shows like MTV's "Jackass" has infiltrated the mainstream. (pg. 1); FERRET CREATORS -- Kim Gallina, left, 28, and Lauren Williman, 24. (Michael Nagle/The New York Times)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); TEXT MESSAGING (71%); NETWORK TELEVISION (70%); BRANDING (69%); GENERATION Y (67%); WILDLIFE (65%); MARINE MAMMALS (60%); MAMMALS (58%) ADVERTISING; TELEVISION 

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: WALKER, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



603 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
The Bubble Has Burst, But Strengths Remain

BYLINE:  By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
WAS the economic success of the 1990's largely an illusion? Was it all little more than an elaborate stage set propped up by a speculative bubble in technology, by cheerleaders for the new economy who wildly overestimated the potential for growth and by phony accounting that only temporarily hid huge losses at companies like Enron and WorldCom, which have since gone bankrupt?
 To many people, in retrospect, it certainly looks that way. 
 But just as Americans fell victim to "irrational exuberance" in the late 1990's, exaggerating the underlying strength of the economy, today's equally fashionable pessimism appears overdone as well. And that means there are still plenty of good reasons to be confident about the health of the American economy over the next decade. 
"The 90's were not quite as good as people thought in 1999," said Peter R. Orszag, a Brookings Institution economist who was co-editor of a new book, "American Economic Policy in the 1990's" (MIT Press). "But the vitality of the U.S. economic system remains intact. It is very dangerous to extrapolate from a temporary economic downturn to assuming that we are facing a dismal decade ahead."
These days, it is easy to forget just how much the economy accomplished in recent years.
Even after the latest revisions shaved earlier estimates, the annualized rate of productivity growth -- which measures our ability to improve the nation's standard of living by producing more in each hour of work -- appears to have been a robust 2.6 percent from 1995 through 2000. And despite the usual tendency to fall sharply in a recession, those productivity numbers are holding up well through the current slowdown.
Contrast that with the meager annual productivity growth of just 1.4 percent from the early 1970's to the early 1990's. Under relentless pressure from highly competitive markets and with the help of continued advances in technology, American business can be expected, most experts now agree, to continue to achieve average productivity gains of at least 2 percent a year.
Those gains have translated into real benefits for nearly all Americans. The official unemployment rate fell below 4 percent in the late 1990's for the first time since the 1960's, reaching the state of economic nirvana that experts call full employment, in which essentially any working-age person who wants a job can find one. The unemployment rate has since risen, but it remains considerably lower than at comparable stages in past economic cycles.
Wage increases for the average worker, whose income had stagnated in real terms for two decades, easily outpaced the low rate of inflation from 1993 through 2001. Poverty fell sharply as those at the bottom of the income ladder shared in the gains for the first time in a generation. Many more people became homeowners and, yes, investors, enjoying improvements in personal wealth that even with falling stock prices remain far above the levels of a decade ago.
"The 90's still look like quite a good decade," said Alan Blinder, a former top official at the Federal Reserve who was co-author of "The Fabulous Decade," a chapter of a book published this year by the Russell Sage Foundation, "The Roaring Nineties: Can Full Employment Be Sustained?"
"Not as fabulous as some thought at the time," added Mr. Blinder, who teaches economics at Princeton University, "but fabulous nonetheless."
THERE is no reason to expect a repeat of the runaway boom of the late 1990's, in either the real economy or the stock market. But the lessons to be drawn from the achievements of the decade suggest that the American economy is capable of considerably more than most experts thought only a few years ago.
"The 90's showed that full employment is an achievable goal without running the risk of higher inflation," said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the labor-supported Economic Policy Institute in Washington, who is co-author of a new book on the subject. "There were a lot of mainstream economists who didn't think we would ever be capable of doing that again."
In tight labor markets, the benefits of economic growth are more broadly shared, particularly among lower-skilled workers who suddenly become a lot more attractive to employers.
The best thing about the market's collapse is that it turns attention back to the things that really matter in the economy.
"The big illusion about the 90's was in the stock market, which came to believe its own hype," Mr. Blinder said. "But for the essentials -- for jobs, wages and productivity -- it was very real indeed."

GRAPHIC: Graph "PRODUCTIVITY" tracks annual change in output per hour, nonfarm workers, through the 1980's and 1990's.(Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); INFLATION (77%); RECESSION (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); BONDS (64%); POVERTY RATES (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRODUCTIVITY 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (57%) REDBURN, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



604 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Is Home Depota Fixer-Upper?

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH KELLEHER 

 BODY:
LOW mortgage rates have fueled a housing boom, but that has not done much to help the shares of Home Depot, the nation's largest home-improvement chain.
 Instead, shares of the Lowe's Companies, Home Depot's biggest rival, are up substantially over the last 12 months -- 50.8 percent, versus a loss of 4.3 percent for Home Depot. 
 The main difference between the two companies, analysts and portfolio managers say, is that Lowe's is growing rapidly while Home Depot has begun to cannibalize its sales when it opens American stores.
"Home Depot has passed its best years in terms of square-footage growth," said David A. Schick of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. "It is now a Sears in this world." 
In fact, Home Depot, which is based in Atlanta and has 1,437 stores in North America, is still growing, with 200 more stores planned for next year, but it has saturated most markets, Mr. Schick said.
Lowe's, meanwhile, which is based in Wilkesboro, N.C., is rapidly opening stores outside its Southeast stronghold. It now has 806 in 43 states and plans to open 130 more next year. The design of its stores has attracted customers, especially women, who dislike the warehouse shopping layout of Home Depot, analysts said. Lowe's features wider aisles, brighter lighting and more signs, and it stocks a larger selection of products for home decorating, like lamps, window treatments and designer towels, than is found in traditional Home Depot stores.
Sales in stores open at least a year rose 6.8 percent at Lowe's in the second quarter over the period a year earlier, compared with a 1 percent gain at Home Depot. Earnings per share grew 40 percent for Lowe's and 28 percent for Home Depot.
Some investors hope that Home Depot, known for its orange-accented stores, finds a new format to reinvigorate itself. With $5.9 billion in cash, versus $1.5 billion at Lowe's, it can afford to experiment. It has opened 50 Expo Design Centers, featuring home decor; five Home Depot Supply stores, catering to contractors; and a Home Depot Landscape Supply store. It plans to expand its installation business.
Despite such ventures, said Dan Wewer an analyst for CIBC World Markets, Home Depot's track record "isn't great."
"The orange-box store is the only concept they have been able to grow profitably," Mr. Wewer added. As a result, he said, his firm has changed its view of Home Depot. "For years, we've recommended both stocks; it has never been an either-or situation." said Mr. Wewer. While the two companies grew, several competitors went out of business. Today he recommends only Lowe's.
Lewis R. Piantedosi, a vice president of Eaton Vance Management, a Boston mutual fund firm that owns 5.76 million shares of Home Depot, said knocking the company for not having "the next wave" might be premature. "In 1994, people said that about Wal-Mart," he said. "That stock got down to 13 times earnings, then the Supercenter came about." Wal-Mart's price-to-earnings multiple now is about 33.
But Donald I. Trott, an analyst at Jeffries & Company, said Home Depot's $2 billion share repurchase program is a sign the company has run out of expansion opportunities. He recommends that investors shift out of Home Depot and into Lowe's.
Alan M. Rifkin of Lehman Brothers says he is neutral on both stocks because he believes spending on home improvement may weaken if interest rates or unemployment rise. But he said that before Home Depot would be appealing again, the company needed to bolster its return on invested capital.
Bob Burton, vice president for investor relations at Home Depot, acknowledged that the company needs to improve its performance. "There is no question, we are going through a transformation," he said.
IN December 2000, Robert L. Nardelli took the helm as president and chief executive and began scaling back the chain's expansion plans, focusing instead on efficiency.
"For 20-plus years, we grew with a simple and attractive thesis: open more stores," Mr. Burton said. "Now we need a more balanced approach." He said the company is responding to complaints about service by increasing training as well as the proportion of full-time employees. It is also shifting to centralized buying of merchandise to take advantage of its size and plans to build several transit centers to better stock stores.
Mr. Rifkin approves of these plans. In the meantime, he said, "the stock is now in purgatory."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Building a Lead"Shares of the Lowe's Companies have outperformed Home Depot's since August 2001. Graph tracks share prices of Lowe's, S.&P. 500, and Home Depot since Aug. 31. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME CENTERS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); BONDS (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: LOWE'S COS INC (95%); HOME DEPOT INC (95%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (51%); EATON VANCE MANAGEMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HOME DEPOT INC; LOWE'S COS 

TICKER: LOW (NYSE) (95%); HD (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (95%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%) SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS; 

PERSON: KELLEHER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



605 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2757 words

HEADLINE: In Charity, Where Does a C.E.O. End and a Company Start? 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
TYCO INTERNATIONAL'S lawsuit against its former chief executive, L. Dennis Kozlowski, is shining a harsh light on yet another area ripe for abuse by imperial chief executives: the murky line between corporate philanthropy and their personal philanthropy.
 In the suit, Mr. Kozlowski -- who has been indicted separately on charges of racketeering, fraud, tax evasion, grand larceny and misuse of company funds -- stands accused of personally taking credit for more than $43 million of Tyco International's largess and allocating an additional $63 million. The company contends that a $2.5 million fund at Middlebury College in Vermont was endowed with its money but named for Mr. Kozlowski; it also made available several letters from Mr. Kozlowski to various nonprofit institutions in which he lays claim to contributions made with company money. 
 How could investors know?
Drawing a distinct line between any company's philanthropy and the gifts of its chief executive is nigh impossible. It requires access to tax filings and corporate records that are not available for public scrutiny and, equally inaccessible, the chitchat that takes place almost every evening around elegant dinner tables at charity benefits and balls. Making the task more complex, corporations give through their foundations, separate corporate giving programs and marketing departments while wealthy individuals donate from savings accounts, trust funds and family foundations. 
"We're pretty sure that less than 40 percent of corporate philanthropy is being disclosed to the public," said Rick Cohen, the president of the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy, a watchdog organization in Washington. "So there's a lot going on in the name of charity and supported by tax dollars that we don't know about."
Last year, when the organization tried to untangle the philanthropy of the Enron Corporation from that of Kenneth L. Lay, its former chief executive and chairman, it finally gave up. "We just couldn't do it," Mr. Cohen said.
Amid the myriad scandals sweeping corporate America, the fact that at least one chief executive took credit for a company's beneficence -- and that others blur the line -- may seem minor. But why shouldn't investors know where their money goes? And shouldn't the company, not the executive, get the glory, the good will and the power that a contribution brings?
Not only is corporate philanthropy coming out of the pockets of shareholders, it is also coming from taxpayers. The AAFRC Trust for Philanthropy in Indianapolis, which promotes ethics in fund-raising, estimates that corporations spent $9.05 billion, or 1.3 percent of pretax profits, on philanthropy last year. It notes that many forms of corporate charity, like volunteer time and sponsorships, cannot be tracked.
In a 1999 report on corporate disclosure of philanthropy, the Securities and Exchange Commission cataloged several shareholder proposals to allow investors to set the agenda for giving and to open company records on donations. The commission also noted that some individual shareholders had complained about the lack of disclosure.
FEDERAL securities laws do not require companies to disclose charitable contributions unless they are material to an investor's understanding of compensation policies or financial statements, or unless a contribution is significant and there is potential for conflict of interest. The S.E.C. conceded in its report, however, that it does not monitor charitable contributions and thus "is not in a position to be aware of any particular abuse by public companies or their directors or officers regarding corporate contributions to nonprofit organizations."
Representative Paul E. Gillmor, Republican of Ohio, has repeatedly submitted bills to require corporations to disclose their giving in filings with the S.E.C. But each time, powerful lobbies -- both corporations and, somewhat surprisingly, organizations that represent nonprofit groups -- have thwarted his efforts. 
Earlier this year, in the wake of scandals at Enron, WorldCom and other companies, Congress considered a provision requiring disclosure of corporate giving. But the measure, which would help distinguish a company's philanthropy from that of its executives, was dropped from the corporate-accountability legislation that was eventually enacted. Opponents argued that the disclosure requirements would invade the privacy of directors and officers, deter corporate giving, and, in the words of the Independent Sector, an organization representing charities, be "tedious and burdensome."
Even trustees and their closest confidants have a hard time getting to the bottom of corporate philanthropy. A well-connected director at one of New York City's most prestigious arts institutions recalled efforts a few years ago to determine the terms of a contribution by Sanford I. Weill, the chief executive of Citigroup, for $100 million -- an astounding amount even by the philanthropic standards of Fifth and Park Avenues -- to Cornell University for its medical school. The director, who declined to be identified for fear of disrupting friendships, called four friends on the Cornell board, only to be told they didn't know.
Two prominent fund-raisers in New York City said they were confident that the gift of Mr. Weill and his wife, Joan, was, in fact, the couple's money. The Weills have since made a second $100 million gift to the medical school, as well as other gifts to the university. Worth an estimated $1.1 billion, Mr. Weill does not need to tap the corporate coffers to create an aura of beneficence for himself.
Citigroup -- one of the few companies that does disclose its philanthropic contributions in detail -- has been remarkably generous, however, to some of the Weills's favorite nonprofit institutions. In 1998, the company's foundation, of which Mr. Weill is chairman, pledged $6 million to be given over four years for new technology at the Weill Cornell Medical School. Last year, when Mrs. Weill pledged $15 million to the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, Citigroup pledged $2.5 million over five years to the group. In contrast, Citigroup gave the troupe $15,000 in 1999.
And in 1992, the Citigroup Foundation pledged $3 million over 10 years to Carnegie Hall's endowment.
The biggest contributions made by Citigroup over the last four years were to the three institutions most identified with the Weills. Just last year, when Citigroup spent $67.6 million on philanthropy, a little more than 4 percent went to them: Cornell, Carnegie Hall and Alvin Ailey.
A spokeswoman for Citigroup said that this year, the company has given several large grants to organizations not linked to the Weills, like $5 million over five years to the National Council of La Raza, $5 million over five years to the Asia Society and $1.6 million to Habitat for Humanity. She said Citigroup encourages its executives to be involved in the charities it supports.
DESPITE a decline last year, corporate philanthropy has soared over the last decade; many companies now generously finance not only the causes of their current chiefs, but also those of their former leaders. Many retirement packages include philanthropy as a perk. In its golden parachute for Jacques A. Nasser, the former chief executive of Ford Motor, the company committed to endowing a scholarship at the educational institution of his choice. A company spokesman said that a similar provision had been part of retirement benefits for previous Ford executives and that the practice offered a tax-effective way to provide a benefit. Mr. Nasser gets the glory for nothing, and Ford gets the tax deduction.
As part of his retirement at the end of this year, Terrence Murray, the chairman and former chief executive of FleetBoston Financial, has the opportunity to contribute a total of $3.5 million to up to three educational institutions of his choice. A spokesman for FleetBoston said the company's foundation would send the money to the schools in its name, not in Mr. Murray's.
Shareholder advocates frown upon corporate giving solely at an executive's whim. "Corporate charitable contributions should be seen as part of the company's marketing strategy," said Nell Minow, editor of the Corporate Library, a corporate governance research group in Washington. "If they promote the company's products or brand identity, then it's fine. If the money goes to the ballet so the C.E.O.'s wife can be on the ballet board, or to the local university whose president happens to be the chair of the company board's compensation committee, not fine." 
Richard M. Scrushy, the chairman of the HealthSouth Corporation, serves on the boards of several educational institutions, and his name adorns many buildings and facilities in and around Birmingham, Ala., where the company is based. There's Scrushy-Striplin Field, a baseball complex at Birmingham-Southern College, that was renovated in 1995 with "the financial support of Richard M. Scrushy and HealthSouth," according to the school's Web site.
But Bill Wagnon, the spokesman for the college, said the Web site mistakenly characterized the $1.5 million of support. "I talked with our development director, and he said it came from Mr. Scrushy personally," Mr. Wagnon said. "What's on the Web site is a mistake put on by someone who didn't know any better." The Web site no longer carries the reference to HealthSouth.
In 1998, when Mr. Scrushy was appointed to the board of the American Red Cross, his family foundation gave $230,000 to the organization; the HealthSouth Foundation, the company's charitable foundation, which he heads, gave $23,309.
The HealthSouth Foundation contributed $36,000 to the American Sports Medicine Institute, where the library is named for Mr. Scrushy.
A library in the Birmingham suburb of Vestavia Hills is named for Mr. Scrushy but is leased to the community for $10 a year by HealthSouth, which owns the building, said Sonny Jones, the city treasurer.
The company did not respond to questions about the donations.
Companies often argue that their contributions make business sense, even if they also clearly play to a chief executive's interests. Citigroup can argue that supporting Carnegie Hall makes it a good corporate citizen, while giving money to Cornell helps develop potential new employees and attract customers.
Corporate giving often changes when a new executive rises to the top. For instance, Richard D. Parsons, the new chief executive of AOL Time Warner, was chairman of the spring benefit of the Henry Street Settlement, a New York City community service agency, in April, and the company bought a $25,000 table. In the past, the company said its donations to the agency were $1,000 to $2,000. Mr. Parsons's impressive Rolodex was also pressed into service to Henry Street's benefit.
Asked if AOL Time Warner felt obligated to give to a charity if one of its executives served on its board or was otherwise involved with it, Tricia Primrose, a spokeswoman, said, "If the combination of our company's support and an executive's participation helps bolster recognition of and giving to these important institutions, we think that's great."
Then, too, there are times when a chief executive is buttonholed at a party or benefit and casually makes a pledge that the company must honor. That is exactly what happened at Monsanto in 1998, according to one witness. Robert B. Shapiro, then the chief executive, was attending a party in Chicago when he was hit up by someone who asked the company to become the lead sponsor for "Underground Adventure," a permanent exhibit at the Field Museum of Chicago. He said yes.
"I wasn't here, so I can't tell you how that came about," said Deborah J. Patterson, the president of the Monsanto Fund. "What I can say to you is that I believe it is O.K. for an executive to bring a project forward. That particular project met our criteria for giving. At that time, we had thousands of employees in Chicago, and we had a focus on the environment and science education, which was what that project was about." Mr. Shapiro did not respond to an e-mail message seeking comment.
Ms. Patterson said the key to corporate philanthropy is establishing clear parameters for giving. "We would be foolish to say that the company executive has no influence," she said. "But if an executive proposes something that doesn't fall into the categories we've established for giving, then we would say no, even to the chief executive."
And it is no secret why executives are recruited by nonprofit groups.
"At the senior corporate level, when a charity or big cultural institution invites someone on their board, it's very clear that person comes with the resources of the company behind him," said one consultant who works with foundations and other philanthropic institutions. "The Metropolitan Museum is not inviting you on the board because they want you to tell them what kind of shows they should put on."
Traditionally, though, a company's philanthropic office often takes the lead in selecting the charities to which the chief executive will lend his name. Or, a directors' committee makes the choices, though they often endorse the leader's preferences. 
Thus, George Weissman, the former chief executive of Philip Morris, was often honored by arts organizations because the company is one of the country's biggest arts patrons. 
Similarly, Douglas A. Warner III, who ran J. P. Morgan before it merged with Chase Manhattan in 2000, and Edgar M. Bronfman, the co-chairman of Seagram (which was sold in December 2000 to form Vivendi Universal), were honored for their companies' beneficence.
"These people did not ever put themselves forward as personally generous, even though many of them were," said Randall Bourscheidt, the president of the Alliance for the Arts in New York City. "Take Dick Jenrette when he was running the Equitable. He was absolutely scrupulous in making sure that his personal giving was in no way confused with Equitable's."
But the cult of the C.E.O. has blurred the distinction between the personal and the corporate -- so much so that it is hard to separate, say, John T. Chambers from Cisco Systems, Steven P. Jobs from Apple Computer or John F. Welch Jr. from General Electric.
Charitable institutions are somewhat to blame for this phenomenon. Nominating committees at the most exclusive charities make no bones about what is expected in terms of fund-raising but are agnostic about where the money comes from, a policy called "give or get." 
If you join the board of the Whitney Museum of American Art, for example -- as Mr. Kozlowski did despite little knowledge of art -- you personally must make a $100,000 annual contribution and either give personally or raise $5 million in all. At the Lincoln Center, the minimum personal contribution is $250,000.
"What you're talking about is the contemporary twist on an age-old practice of nonprofit boards, which is to identify people wherever they find them who can help bring their institution financial stability wherever it comes from, so long as it's not illegal or improper," Mr. Bourscheidt said. "The nonprofit board frankly cannot afford to worry about the distinctions between corporate and individual contributions."
Or, as one of the most prominent fund-raisers in New York says, "Face it: money is fungible."
But across the country in the last year, spigots have been running dry as companies have suffered from the sluggish economy and many executives have watched their wealth vanish in the plunging stock market. Some executives, like Mr. Lay at Enron, who were sought-after in recent years, have been toppled by scandal or for poor performance. 
Mr. Kozlowski has resigned at the Whitney, yet some fallen executives remain on nonprofit boards, creating new problems.
Consider Jean-Marie Messier, who moved to Manhattan from Paris with a storm of publicity and was lauded as a philanthropist extraordinaire just six months ago. Ousted this summer as the head of Vivendi Universal, he still serves on the board of the Whitney Museum, and his wife, Antoinette, is still on the board of the New York Philharmonic.
Will Vivendi still support them in those roles? "Those board positions are Mr. and Mrs. Messiers's personal commitments," said Patsy Glazer, an executive at the Vivendi Universal Foundation. "Their being on the boards has no impact on Vivendi."
One Whitney board member said that trustees are hoping Mr. Messier is absent at future meetings -- but that the money he produced for the museum keeps coming in.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, Page 12 of Money & Business on Sunday was interchanged with Page 12 of Sunday Styles in some copies. The error misplaced the continuations of three articles -- one about the economic uncertainty that is slowing businesses' spending; one about the murky line between companies' philanthropies and those of their chief executives; and one about the uses of humiliation in a new generation of television commercials. The full articles may be found online today, at nytimes.com/corrections.
Because of a production error, Page 12 of Money & Business last Sunday was interchanged with Page 12 of Sunday Styles in some copies. The error misplaced the continuations of three articles -- one about the economic uncertainty that is slowing businesses' spending; one about the murky line between companies' philanthropies and those of their chief executives; and one about the uses of humiliation in a new generation of television advertising. The full articles may be found online today, at nytimes.com/corrections.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jean-Marie Messier, left, became active in American charities when he led Vivendi Universal of France. (Bill Cunningham/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Sanford I. Weill, of Citigroup, and his wife, Joan. Robert B. Shapiro, far right, former head of Monsanto, with Dr. Jeremiah A. Barondess, of the New York Academy of Medicine. (Photographs by Bill Cunningham/The New York Times)(pg. 12); Richard M. Scrushy, above, chairman of HealthSouth. Top right, Kenneth L. Lay, the former chief of Enron, and his wife, Linda, at a Houston charity gala in March. (Charles Nesbitt/The Birmingham News); (Associated Press); L. Dennis Kozlowski, above left, former chief of Tyco International, with Jan Leschly, a pharmaceutical and venture capital executive who once led SmithKline Beecham, at a New York charity event in 1999. (Bill Cunningham/The New York Times)(pg. 13) Chart: "Less Charitable"Companies gave $9.05 billion last year, down from $10.29 billion in 2000. Graph tracks total corporate giving from 1986-2000 (Source: American Association of Fundraising Counsel)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (93%); CORPORATE GIVING (92%); EXECUTIVES (92%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TAX LAW (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ETHICS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SCANDALS (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TAX FRAUD (77%); CHARITABLE GIVING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); INDICTMENTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); VOLUNTEERS (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%) PHILANTHROPY; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ETHICS; CORPORATIONS 

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (90%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR RESPONSIVE PHILANTHROPY (54%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (90%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (65%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (58%) STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (67%) VERMONT, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



606 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2140 words

HEADLINE: Biggest Hurdle: Uncertainty 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
INVESTORS are getting creamed on Wall Street. Consumers are nervous. New jobs are scarce. Japan, the world's No. 2 economy, is stuck in a deflationary bog and Europe remains lackluster, providing scant hope for exporters.
 But more than anything else, the course of the American economy this year and into the next rests with corporate managers like Calvin A. Campbell Jr., chairman of the Goodman Equipment Corporation, a locomotive maker in Bedford Park, Ill. 
 At a time when corporate earnings are dismal across the country, Mr. Campbell and his counterparts in all kinds of industries face risks that extend from the ripple effects of a possible war with Iraq to an uproar from shareholders demanding new standards of corporate governance. 
The choices they make in that difficult and uncertain environment about fresh investments in factories, computers, telecommunications equipment and other capital goods will go a long way toward determining whether the United States continues limping along at a modest rate of growth or restores itself to robust economic health.
"From the perspective of the economy, uncertainty is the enemy of growth," said Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley. "What you see in the marketplace is a high degree of risk aversion." 
Mr. Campbell, for one, is certainly cautious. He is waiting until he gets a clearer sense of demand from customers before investing in new cranes, computer software and other equipment. And right now, the mining companies that pay up to $400,000 for his locomotives remain reluctant to spend and are paying off previous purchases more slowly. "If people can delay, they delay," Mr. Campbell said. "There's a lot of caution, a lot of pessimism."
Mr. Campbell's experience is common. After recovering slowly for much of this year, capital spending now appears to be weakening. If that trend continues, the economy will have to muddle along on the backs of consumers who, despite their jitters, have proved willing to keep spending. Without a rebound in business investment, economists say, the economy is unlikely to rebound sharply. But many corporate executives, seeing a lot of dark clouds on the horizon, are in wait-and-see mode.
"If you're a corporate executive in this environment, you face a higher level of uncertainty -- and more sources of uncertainty -- than you have in your career," said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International.
"You face the uncertainty about additional acts of terrorism," he said. "You face the uncertainty about a war with Iraq, with all the implications that holds for energy prices and a broad impact on the economy. You face a greater degree of scrutiny of corporate governance, which makes people more cautious in how they run their companies. And then you face all the questions about where the economy is going."
THE effects are showing. After picking up somewhat over the summer, the economy appears to be slowing again. The manufacturing sector stopped growing in July and August, according to a survey of managers by the Institute for Supply Management. And 3.6 million people received unemployment benefits in the first week of September, the highest number since June, according to the Labor Department.
There are pockets of strength. Low interest rates have fueled strong automobile sales and have set off waves of mortgage refinancings, putting more cash into the hands of consumers and keeping housing and related industries vibrant.
But there are also plenty of reasons for continued concern. At the top of the list is the stock market's slide, which destroyed nearly $420 billion of wealth last week alone. The decline is hurting companies' ability to raise money and is forcing individual investors to rethink everything from next year's vacation plans to their retirement timetables.
Companies are also struggling to maintain profit margins, let alone raise prices. Occupancy rates at the Loews Hotels chain, for example, have returned to levels reached before Sept. 11, 2001. But with travelers more worried about costs than they were a few months ago, Loews is selling more discounted rooms than it did in the past.
"We were definitely seeing cautious optimism prior to a month ago," said Charlotte St. Martin, the company's executive vice president for marketing. "We have seen a bit of a slowdown."
Even companies with healthy profit increases do not credit the domestic economy. On Thursday, FedEx said operating income in its most recent quarter rose 20 percent, versus a year earlier, but cited overseas business and a cost-cutting program as two of the main reasons. FedEx has cut capital spending and revamped operations to use fewer workers.
"We're cautiously optimistic" about the rest of the year, said Michael Glenn, executive vice president for market development, offering the closest thing to exuberance in corporate America today.
Now, with President Bush having made clear his intention to confront Saddam Hussein through military force if necessary, government officials, economists and executives are adding unsettling factors to their economic and financial planning. 
One school of thought holds that the economy would benefit from a war, because government spending on the military and domestic security would surge, giving the economy a fiscal jolt to go along with the one being delivered by the tax cuts Mr. Bush signed into law last year.
But there is a broader consensus that a war, assuming that it goes well and remains restricted to Iraq, would be neutral or even negative for the economy.
From the White House to the Federal Reserve to corporate headquarters across the country, there is general agreement that a war could affect the economy through four main channels: a sharp rise in oil prices, a further steep fall in the stock market, a decline in consumer confidence and a surge in the federal budget deficit.
For now, the official line from Washington asserts that any war will not have to be a major economic event. 
Although Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990 and the American military action the next year helped send the economy into a mild recession, federal officials say there is no reason to assume that the same thing will happen this time. Since then, the economy has changed. 
As Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, told Congress this month, the United States uses less oil relative to total economic output than it used to. As a result, the economy is less susceptible to an oil price spike if Middle East supplies are disrupted.
Mr. Greenspan acknowledged that previous recessions had been preceded by run-ups in oil prices, but he said that there was little reason to think the pattern would repeat, especially if a war is no longer than the conflict in 1990-91. "I don't think the effect of oil as it stands at this particular stage is large enough to impact the economy unless the hostilities are prolonged," he said.
OTHER analysts differ, however. Should the war spread to Saudi Arabia or become regionwide, oil prices could easily rise above $40 a barrel from their current range of $25 to $30. Such an increase, they say, would affect both businesses and consumers in the United States and around the world.
In a country of S.U.V. drivers, an oil price shock accompanied by 24-hour coverage of hostilities in Iraq could be enough to put a crack in consumer confidence and weaken what has been the main pillar of the recovery so far: consumer spending.
For now, consumers remain remarkably resilient. L. Douglas Lee of Economics From Washington, a consulting firm, noted that with wages rising at an annual rate of 4 percent and inflation at less than 2.5 percent, real incomes are growing for most people. The combination of rising income and the 2001 tax cut has allowed many people to keep spending while increasing their savings.
"The consumer is in pretty good shape, unless you think the labor market is falling apart," he said.
Some analysts, though by no means all, think it is. In a report to clients last week, John Youngdahl, an economist at Goldman Sachs, warned of "accumulating evidence that business firms have begun another round of labor restructuring and cutbacks, in response to earnings disappointments and a further tightening of broad financial conditions over the summer."
On Tuesday, for example, the Charles Schwab Corporation said it would dismiss about 1,800 employees over the next two months. Schwab had already eliminated about 7,000 jobs, more than one-quarter of its work force, since early 2001. This month, Lucent Technologies announced that its sales were even weaker than forecast, and analysts said the company might have thousands more layoffs in coming months.
Aside from the apparent increase in layoffs, Mr. Youngdahl said, "there continue to be statistical signs that job creation is abysmally weak, and thus the reabsorption of unemployed persons into the work force is difficult."
Consumers would also be hurt, financially and psychologically, by a continued drop in stock prices. Although many analysts say investors will probably remain nervous as long as there is talk of war, military success could bring a quick-relief market rally. "Uncertainty is bad for markets," Mr. Lee said. "But there's an adage that says, 'Sell the rumor and buy the bullets.' It's often been proved true in the past."
A war could also influence markets by raising the federal budget deficit, which is already expanding faster than Congress or the administration anticipated a few months ago.
White House officials say they have not budgeted any particular amount for a war. In any case, they say, the United States can afford it.
Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, said one cost estimate floated earlier by the administration -- of a maximum of $100 billion to $200 billion -- was almost certainly too high.
He said the only guideline was the Persian Gulf war in 1991, which cost $60 billion, or about $80 billion in today's dollars. Four-fifths of the cost was paid by the allies.
At those levels, war spending would amount to less than 1 percent of gross domestic product, not enough for major economic effect. 
It would, however, be enough to make a substantial if presumably one-time difference in the budget deficit, which is projected to total $165 billion for the fiscal year that ends on Sept. 30.
The uncertainties related to a war, economists said, must be viewed against the backdrop of an economy already struggling past excesses of the bubble economy of the late 1990's.
THE full array of uncertainty is clearly visible to Mr. Campbell of Goodman Equipment. On Thursday, he attended a lunch at an executives' club in downtown Chicago, where candidates running for governor in Illinois had come to speak. The discussion at his table quickly turned to the stock market, and a few of his peers wondered if the Dow Jones industrial average would return to its previous peak in the next 10 or even 20 years.
A few weeks ago, after Mr. Campbell had used the word "fair" to describe the state of his business, he recalled that another executive said to him, "That's the most optimistic word I've heard in a long time."
Hearing that kind of pessimism, Mr. Campbell says he wants to see four or five months of good economic news before he begins investing large amounts of Goodman's money. Every time people have begun to become more optimistic over the last year or so, he said, a new reason for worry has sprung up, be it terrorism, corporate scandal or, most recently, the possibility of war.
"People gained confidence," he said, referring to this spring, "and now they've lost it."
He added, "If we do go to war, I think it's going to set us back from an economic standpoint."
Like Mr. Campbell at Goodman, many manufacturing executives, who depend on capital spending for profits, are trying to sort through the news from Wall Street and Washington as they set budgets for 2003.
"It's the most indeterminable economy I've ever lived in," said Tony Raimondo, chief executive of Behlen Manufacturing, in Columbus, Neb., which makes metal buildings and grain dryers. "One month, it's up and you're a little excited. The next month, it's as bad as it's been."
Behlen's consumer business, which sells farming equipment that typically costs a few hundred dollars, is thriving. The division that builds factories and other structures is struggling, though it has picked up compared with last year. In a good month, he said, the unit will sell $3.5 million of products. Last year, it sold just $2 million of goods in some months. Now, sales have improved to just above $2.5 million.
But that has not made Mr. Raimondo confident enough to proceed with a plan to expand a factory in the Northwest. "I wish I could tell you," he said with a sigh, that "we're not part of the problem."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, Page 12 of Money & Business on Sunday was interchanged with Page 12 of Sunday Styles in some copies. The error misplaced the continuations of three articles -- one about the economic uncertainty that is slowing businesses' spending; one about the murky line between companies' philanthropies and those of their chief executives; and one about the uses of humiliation in a new generation of television commercials. The full articles may be found online today, at nytimes.com/corrections.
Because of a production error, Page 12 of Money & Business last Sunday was interchanged with Page 12 of Sunday Styles in some copies. The error misplaced the continuations of three articles -- one about the economic uncertainty that is slowing businesses' spending; one about the murky line between companies' philanthropies and those of their chief executives; and one about the uses of humiliation in a new generation of television advertising. The full articles may be found online today, at nytimes.com/corrections.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Calvin A. Campbell Jr. of the Goodman Equipment Corporation is seeing "a lot of caution, a lot of pessimism." (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)(pg. 12) Drawing (Otto Steininger)(pg. 1) Chart: "Cautionary Effects"Amid many uncertainties, including the possibility of war with Iraq, companies are reluctant to invest and the economy is again slowing. Graphs track:Capital SpendingPercentage change from previous quarter (2000-2002) Corporate profits before taxSeasonally adjusted at annual rates (2000-2002) Institute for Supply Management PMI IndexA measure of the manufacturing sector, monthly through August (2000-2002) Gross Domestic ProductPercentage change from previous quarter (2000-2002) (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); RISK MANAGEMENT (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); TRENDS (72%); TRAINS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); MINES & MINING (50%); TERRORISM (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; CAPITAL INVESTMENT 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); GOODMAN EQUIPMENT CORP (72%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC5082 CONSTRUCTION & MINING (EXCEPT PETROLEUM) MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (72%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



607 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH -- Jeffrey R. Tyler; 
American Century Strategic Allocation: Aggressive Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
JEFFREY R. TYLER, lead manager of the $386 million American Century Strategic Allocation: Aggressive fund, is still wary of the faltering stock market, though not as much as he was last spring.
 Stocks accounted for 86 percent of the fund's assets in 1999, Mr. Tyler said, but the figure was down to 72 percent by last June. It has since climbed back to 78 percent, the fund's long-term average. 
 The managers who help him pick American stocks, he said, are having trouble finding good candidates. "They're just not finding companies with the acceleration in earnings that they like to see," he said.
The fund's analyst of midcap stocks has shifted money from technology stocks to health care. When traditional growth managers have to move into health care, Mr. Tyler said from his office in Mountain View, Calif., "that tends to make us a little more pessimistic on equities in general."
The fund lost 2.8 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, versus a decline of 11.9 percent, annualized, for its category of large blend funds, which own a mix of growth and value stocks, according to Morningstar Inc. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 13.1 percent a year, on average, during that time.
The fund was down 79 percent in the last 12 months, versus declines of 15 percent for its group and 15.8 percent for the index.
Mr. Tyler, 44, is a senior vice president for the fund's adviser, American Century Investment Management, which is based in Kansas City, Mo. It manages about $80 billion for institutions and individuals.
Mr. Tyler oversees three Strategic Allocation funds, which allot stocks, bonds and cash for varying degrees of risk and potential return. The others are called Strategic Allocation: Moderate and Strategic Allocation: Conservative.
THE stock holdings of the Aggressive fund are divided into five domestic categories, plus developed and emerging markets. About 20 percent of the fund is in bonds, including investment-grade and high-yield, and the remaining 2 percent is in cash.
Mr. Tyler works with two analysts to determine the fund's asset allocation, using two computer models. The first model measures the historical returns of stocks relative to bonds and cash, taking volatility into account; the second reviews the yield spread between AA-rated corporate bonds and Treasury issues. It also considers other factors intended to predict stock returns.
Mr. Tyler also reviews economic data, but he finds that some of his best information comes from walking in nearby San Francisco. "My favorite indicator is walking around Union Square, looking at how many people are carrying shopping bags," he said. "If people are spending money, that's good for the economy. If I can find a parking spot, that's generally not a good sign."
The asset-allocation models are run monthly, but Mr. Tyler typically makes changes in the allocation just two or three times a year, he said.
He meets regularly with analysts responsible for overseeing the fund's nine investment categories. Over all, about 40 people help choose the roughly 700 securities in the fund.
He began buying one growth stock, BMW, the German automaker, in March 2001, and has paid 39.41 euros, on average, for the position; it now trades at 34.11 euros. 
The company's earnings have been growing steadily -- from 1.90 euros per share in 2000 to 3.30 euros projected for 2002 -- because of successful upgrades of existing models, Mr. Tyler said. Those upgrades have created a surge in sales, he explained, and with minimal capital costs. "When you build products that sell for high prices and don't require customization," he said, "profit margins are significant."
Among value stocks, Mr. Tyler likes Hewlett-Packard. He began buying shares in June 2000, paying $19.01 on average, adjusted for splits. The stock had traded above $60 in early 2000. With the acquisition of Compaq Computer, hesaid, "Hewlett-Packard is trying to move down the same path as I.B.M., selling and servicing big networks of computers." Whether that's possible, he added, is an open question, but that is reflected in the sharply discounted stock price, now $12.94.
The fund's bonds include one from Pepco Holdings, an electric utility based in Washington that serves the mid-Atlantic region. The bond has a 6.45 percent coupon and is due in 2012. Mr. Tyler bought it in May, when it yielded 2.5 percentage points more than Treasury issues of comparable maturity. "We were looking for a defensive play in bonds," he said. "And utilities tend to be a steady sector." The yield spread is now 2.13 points.
The fund paid $99.74 for each $100 in face value; the bond now trades at $103.89.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about investing in the American Century Strategic Allocation: Aggressive Fund misstated its total return for the 12 months through Sept. 19. It was down 7.9 percent, not 79 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fund manager Jeffrey R. Tyler with his son Eric. Mr. Tyler says his team is having trouble finding potential buys among American stocks. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times) Chart: "American Century Strategic Allocation: Aggressive"Category: Large blendNet assets: $386 millionInception: February 1996Manager: Jeffrey R. Tyler since inceptionMinimum purchase: ($2,500 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 184%3-year annualized return through Thursday: -2.8%Category average: -11.9% Sector breakdown Other: 29%Bonds: 20%Financial services: 18%Consumer nondurables:13%Technology: 11%Health care: 9% FeesFront-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio 1.20% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EMERGING MARKETS (64%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CENTURY INVESTMENTS 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; TYLER, JEFFREY R 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



608 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2360 words

HEADLINE: In a Broker's Notes, Trouble for Salomon 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
AS investigators pore over WorldCom, the telecommunications giant that collapsed in July, their work has increasingly become a study of the close and intricate relationship between it and its equally large financial partner, Citigroup.
 The prosecutors, securities regulators and, more recently, Congressional committees trying to piece together that relationship have focused so far on why Citigroup's brokerage firm, Salomon Smith Barney, allocated a million shares of hot new stock offerings to WorldCom executives. They are trying to determine whether those allocations, which usually generated large, instant and virtually risk-free profits, were given in exchange for investment banking assignments from the company. 
 But new evidence suggests problems in other areas of the Citigroup empire's relationship with WorldCom, while further illuminating those that have already come to light.
A lawsuit filed by a former high-level broker in Salomon's office in Atlanta indicates that different, ostensibly independent, businesses within Salomon shared significant information about WorldCom employees' investing plans, putting Salomon in a position to profit at the expense of those customers. Notebooks and diaries kept by the broker also contain more examples of how Salomon's star research analyst, Jack B. Grubman, served as a nexus through which privileged information flowed between telecommunications companies and Salomon, and among nominally distinct units within Citigroup. 
The notes also show the potential conflicts of interest that can arise at huge financial conglomerates and the perils that consumers may face when they entrust these companies with control over many aspects of their lives.
The lawsuit was filed last week by Philip L. Spartis, who handled the WorldCom employee stock option plan and the accounts of many top WorldCom executives and officers. His notes, which fill seven spiral notebooks and three calendars, detail the daily conversations he had with clients and with other Salomon employees from 1997 to 2001. Salomon fired him this year for what it called job abandonment.
Mr. Spartis and Amy Elias, a broker who worked with him, are suing Citigroup for wrongful termination. Mr. Spartis handed over his notebooks last week to Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, who is investigating whether Mr. Grubman's role as a close adviser to Salomon's telecommunications clients colored his research coverage of them and encouraged him to be too upbeat about the companies for too long.
The extent of the association between WorldCom and Salomon may also get a fresh look in Congress as some lawmakers question whether eliminating barriers between investment banks and commercial banks in 1999 was good for consumers. Representative John J. LaFalce, a New York Democrat and the ranking minority member on the House Financial Services Committee, has asked the committee chairman to investigate whether conflicts between the banking and investment advisory arms of Citigroup and other banking behemoths put clients at risk.
"What is striking is how many pages of detail there are" in the notebooks, said Jeffrey L. Liddle, a lawyer representing Mr. Spartis in his suits against Salomon. "It tells you that the 18 pages that Salomon produced to the House Financial Services Committee was inadequate. If one guy out of the entire system has this in his daily notebooks there's a lot of other information that has yet to be turned over and reviewed."
A Salomon spokeswoman said, "Though we have not yet seen this newest claim, his numerous past claims have been without merit." She refused to comment on specifics or to make executives available.
Mr. Spartis may also shed light on the symbiotic dealings of WorldCom and Salomon. He managed the accounts of Scott D. Sullivan, the former WorldCom chief financial officer who was indicted Aug. 1 in the multibillion-dollar accounting scandal at the company, for example. He also managed the account of Stiles A. Kellett Jr., a WorldCom director who is under fire for his role in approving a $400 million loan the company made to its chief executive, Bernard J. Ebbers, who has since resigned.
PERHAPS the most intriguing entries in Mr. Spartis's diaries involve the administration of WorldCom's stock option plan, particularly at the end of 1999.
WorldCom issued millions of stock options to its executives and employees each year, and as WorldCom's stock climbed in the late 1990's, they exercised millions of options every year. In 1998, for example, WorldCom employees bought 49 million shares using options, about 5 percent of the shares outstanding. In 1999, employees exercised options on an additional 61 million shares.
Salomon was the only brokerage firm that WorldCom's employees could use to exercise their options. In 1999, Salomon gave Mr. Spartis a plaque for managing the WorldCom plan, which generated more revenue that year than any other at the firm. Over the four years before he was fired, he generated $2.3 million a year, on average, in gross commissions. 
Salomon administers stock option plans for more companies than any other Wall Street firm, according to stock plan specialists. Its recent clients have included AT&T, Verizon Communications, Tyco International, Toys "R" Us, Compaq, and Electronic Data Systems.
Under WorldCom's plan, the annual vesting date for options -- when employees could exercise their right to buy WorldCom shares at a discount -- was the first day of trading in January. Advance knowledge of how many WorldCom employees had arranged to exercise their options and immediately sell their shares was a potentially valuable piece of information. Someone who knew that a lot of stock would be for sale, for example, could have profited handsomely (and virtually risk-free) by borrowing shares and selling them in anticipation that the big sale by employees would drive down the price. When stock fell, the so-called short-seller could buy back shares at lower prices, return the borrowed stock and pocket the difference.
On the other hand, if someone knew that most employees planned to exercise their options and keep the shares, the resulting flood of buy orders would drive up the stock price. Traders who knew such a flood was coming could profit by buying shares in December and selling them when the price spiked in January.
Mr. Spartis recalled a conference call at the end of 1999 in which Michael Santomossimo, an employee in Salomon's stock option administration group in New York, suggested that they give Michael P. Molnar, then managing director of global retail sales and trading, a "heads up" about the number of options that would be vesting.
"It seemed very routine for him to do this," Mr. Spartis said. "Santomossimo told Molnar that we have a major vesting coming up. Molnar asked how many WorldCom options would be vesting and how many orders to sell were in the electronic queue." Such information is not available publicly.
"I told him I didn't have those numbers off the top of my head," Mr. Spartis recalled. "And I thought, 'I wouldn't tell you if I did.' " To Mr. Spartis, giving away such information meant that the firm's trading desk could be in a position to profit at the expense of his customers because shorting the stock could exaggerate any declines and selling into a rally could blunt the gain. In industry parlance this is known as "front running," or trading ahead of customers, and is forbidden by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by Salomon's own code of ethics.
Although Mr. Spartis declined to share the information with others at Salomon, he recalled, Mr. Santomossimo said he could provide the figures Mr. Molnar wanted. The three men made a date to talk again before the market opened on Jan. 3, 2000.
Mr. Spartis said that before the market opened that day there were several conversations about the hundreds of thousands of shares waiting to be sold. One involved whether to execute each order individually and give WorldCom employees the actual prices at which the trades occurred or to bunch up all the orders and give all the sellers the average price received for those large sales. Mr. Molnar, the New York executive, decided to group the shares and put an average price on them, Mr. Spartis recalled. "I was given one price and every trade was assigned that price," he said. WorldCom shares rose after the trades were executed in batches, Mr. Spartis recalled. This could have indicated that a large short-seller had closed out his position.
"Should the trading desk have had that information?" asked William Fleckenstein, a money manager at Fleckenstein Capital in Seattle. "My guess is probably not. If they used it to get a better execution for the customer, God bless 'em. But if they used it to profit for the firm disproportionately, it's wrong."
A study of the prices that WorldCom employees received on their trades may be worthwhile and would indicate whether the employees received good executions.
Mr. Spartis recalled that he was disappointed in the prices at which many of his customers' trades were executed. "For larger trades, the executions were sloppy, delayed, away from the market at times and embarrassing," he said. "When we would challenge the traders, they wouldn't do anything about it." He also remembered that on many occasions "the stock would take off" after options were exercised.
Administering stock option plans is not always profitable, but firms want the business because it brings in customer assets that can earn fees when invested elsewhere. To woo clients, the biggest brokerage firms often underbid the transfer agents, who used to manage the plans but not the assets generated as a result.
According to Mr. Spartis, after Salomon won the exclusive right to WorldCom's stock option administration, the firm encouraged its brokers to offer clients mortgages that used the stock they held in their accounts as collateral. "I'm sure people have lost their homes," Mr. Spartis said. "The firm's objective seemed to be to get every dollar from every corner there was."
Salomon also became much more lax in approving loans for people who wanted to buy more stock than they had the money for, Mr. Spartis said. "Prior to the bubble, margin loans had to be preapproved before you could commit to the client," he said. "There were three approval levels that margin loans had to go through where compliance people considered suitability. But later, our margin loans were processed without any questions."
During the boom years at WorldCom, in the late 1990's, Mr. Spartis earned enough money to put him in the top ranks of Salomon's brokers. But his fortunes began to fall with those of his clients at WorldCom when that company's stock began to plummet in the fall of 2000. Several WorldCom employees who were his clients eventually sued him, contending that they borrowed money from Salomon to exercise stock options and then lost millions when they held onto the shares as they fell. Most of the suits have been dropped in recent months, but Mr. Spartis has filed third-party suits against Mr. Grubman, contending that Mr. Grubman's unceasing promotion of WorldCom shares was responsible for many clients' losses.
Many entries in Mr. Spartis's notebooks relate to Mr. Grubman's upbeat comments over the years about the telecommunications companies he followed as Salomon's most powerful analyst. Anytime Mr. Grubman spoke on the firm's internal communications system, Mr. Spartis took notes.
Other entries confirm that Mr. Grubman also had a role at Salomon that would not be viewed as traditional for a research analyst. For instance, in August 1999, Mr. Spartis recorded a conversation he had with Mr. Ebbers's personal chief financial officer. Mr. Spartis quoted him as saying that Mr. Grubman had recommended that Mr. Ebbers deal with Rick Olson, a private client broker in Salomon's office in Los Angeles. Analysts do not usually give personal advice to or solicit business from the executives of companies they are responsible for analyzing; to do so gives the appearance of a conflict of interest.
Another series of conversations shows that telecommunications executives hoping to raise money on Wall Street did indeed need to court Mr. Grubman. In August 1998, for example, Mr. Spartis introduced executives at EconoPhone, a small, private telecommunications concern based in Paramus, N.J., to investment bankers at Salomon to discuss a public offering of EconoPhone's shares. After a meeting among EconoPhone executives, Salomon bankers, Mr. Grubman and Robert Waldman, a debt analyst at the firm, the broker's notes indicate, Mr. Grubman rejected the idea of an offering. According to Mr. Spartis's conversation with one of the bankers at the meeting, Mr. Grubman said EconoPhone was not a good candidate because it had "limited bandwidth."
Mr. Grubman made the right call on EconoPhone, as it turned out. Morgan Stanley did the underwriting in May 1999. EconoPhone, which has since changed its name to Destia and merged with Viatel, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection two years later. 
MR. SPARTIS'S dealings with WorldCom executives also provide a glimpse into how that company was run. In 1997, for example, after Mr. Spartis won WorldCom's employee stock option plan for Salomon, he tried to persuade the company's executives to set up a deferred compensation plan that the firm would manage.
But according to Mr. Spartis, Mr. Sullivan, the WorldCom chief financial officer, rejected the idea because such a plan required the use of a so-called rabbi trust, which makes the officers of a company liable if the company goes bankrupt. "Scott said if we can do it without a rabbi trust we might think about it," Mr. Spartis recalled. "It was kind of disturbing to me, talking about bankruptcy and WorldCom in the same sentence in 1997."
WorldCom filed for bankruptcy protection in July, shortly after it disclosed $3.8 billion in accounting misstatements stretching back to 1999. Since the filing, the company has uncovered an additional $3.2 billion in accounting irregularities. Mr. Sullivan was indicted on fraud charges in the case in August.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Philip L. Spartis with some of the notes he took while he was a broker at Salomon Smith Barney. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Notes kept by Philip L. Spartis, a Salomon Smith Barney broker, described the firm's dealings with WorldCom and the role that Jack B. Grubman, Salomon's star analyst, played within the firm. (pg. 13) Chart: "An Option No More"Before its collapse, WorldCom issued millions of stock options to its executives and employees. Many options were exercised in the late 1990's as its share price climbed. Graph tracks Worldcom stock options exercised from 1997-2001. (Source: Company reports)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (76%); STOCK OPTIONS (76%); BUSINESS TORTS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (72%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); BONDS (71%); ETHICS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (62%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ETHICS; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIGROUP INC; SALOMON SMITH BARNEY; WORLDCOM INC 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%) MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; GRUBMAN, JACK B; SPARTIS, PHILIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



609 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: The Costs of Bursting Bubbles 

BYLINE:  By Stephen S. Roach; Stephen S. Roach is chief economist and director of global economics at Morgan Stanley.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
A year after terrorism dealt a seemingly lethal blow to America, talk of resilience and economic recovery is in the air. The nation's inflation-adjusted gross domestic product has risen for four consecutive quarters following a mild downturn in the first nine months of 2001. While the estimated 3.2 percent growth rate over the past year is subdued when compared with the more vigorous rebounds of the past, the hope is that it's a down payment on bigger and better things to come.
 But while Sept. 11 was a defining event for America, it was not a defining event for the economy or the financial markets. That role belongs to the stock market bubble of the late 1990's that finally popped in March 2000. There was far more to the excesses of the 1990's, however, than an asset bubble. The bubble expanded high enough, and for long enough, to have infected the behavior of consumers and businesses alike. 
 The equity bubble helped to create other bubbles -- most notably in the housing market and in consumer spending. Their continued existence poses a serious threat to lasting expansion -- and yet, puncturing them raises the grave risk of deflation. This suggests the economy will prove as challenging to America's political leadership as any other issue in the year ahead.
There is good reason to believe that both the property and consumer bubbles will burst in the not-so-distant future. If they do, there is a realistic possibility that the United States, like Japan in the 1990's, will suffer a series of recessionary relapses over the next several years. Yet denial remains deep, just as it was when the Nasdaq composite index was lurching toward 5,000. Few want to believe that this economic expansion may be built on such a shaky foundation.
The evidence in support of a housing bubble is compelling. The 27 percent increase in inflation-adjusted American house prices since 1997 represents the sharpest five-year increase since 1945. This surge is about three times the increase in real housing rents over this period. (The divergence of home prices and rents, which usually move in tandem, is one measure of the speculative element of the housing market.) As their property values rise, hard-pressed consumers have been quick to extract purchasing power from their homes, taking advantage of low interest rates to refinance their property and use the savings to buy cars, furniture, appliances and other luxury goods. Thus the ever-expanding property bubble has become central to the culture of excess that is now driving the United States economy.
The consumer-spending bubble will undoubtedly be the last to pop. Short of savings and long on debt, an aging American population must begin to come to grips with the looming realities of retirement. Yet it must now do so in an era of defined contribution pension plans whose performance has been battered by a devastating bear market in equities. We all know that Americans are addicted to shopping. Yet we also know that, if they want to retire with any kind of financial security, they must increase their savings and rein in their spending.
What might cause the consumer-spending bubble to burst? It's hard to say, although several realistic possibilities come to mind -- a spike in oil prices, a surge of white-collar layoffs or a collapse of the property bubble. Any one of those developments could send a wake-up call to the American consumer, thereby denying the United States and the broader global economy its main source of support.
But it gets worse. The saga of the post-bubble United States economy doesn't stop with the bursting of the housing and consumer bubbles. Since these events are likely to occur when inflation is already running at a very low rate, they could push the United States into a period of outright deflation -- a decline in the nation's overall level of prices for goods and services.
This is a rare and worrisome condition for most economies. The impact of deflation would be most acute for wage earners and debtors. To stay profitable, companies would have to cut jobs or wages, eventually inhibiting consumer purchasing power. And the fixed obligations of indebtedness would have to be paid back in deflated dollars, squeezing overextended borrowers all the more.
America is already on the brink of deflation. Our broadest price gauge, the G.D.P. price index, recorded just a 1 percent annualized increase in the second quarter of 2002. That's the lowest inflation rate in 48 years. Prices of goods and structures -- covering nearly half the economy -- are already contracting at an annual rate of 0.6 percent. Only in services, where price statistics are notoriously unreliable, are prices still rising.
The hows and whys of America's deflationary perils will long be debated. Two sources seem most likely. First, the bubble-induced boom of business capital spending led to an overhang of new information technologies and other forms of capital equipment in the late 1990's. The result was excess supply, a textbook recipe for lower prices.
Also at work are the unmistakable effects of globalization. The modern-day American economy now has a record exposure to global competition. In the second quarter of 2002, America imported a third as many goods as it produced, well in excess of the 20 percent ratio prevailing at the onset of the last recovery in the early 1990's. Significantly, more and more of these goods are coming from highly competitive Asian producers who have much lower cost structures than their American counterparts.
Moreover, with the exception of Korea, every major Asian economy is now in the throes of its own deflation. Consequently, courtesy of ever-expanding trade relations with Asia, America is now buying more and more from countries like China and Japan that are already in deflation. The growing share of these increasingly cheap foreign goods helps drive down prices of products made at home, thereby deepening deflationary pressures.
History tells us that when major asset bubbles burst, deflation is often the result. That was true of the United States in the 1930's and Japan in the 1990's. Most are quick to claim that America is not Japan -- that its more flexible, dynamic economy stands in sharp contrast to Japan's economic inertia. But the United States is already a lot closer to the deflationary edge than most concede -- and it could go further.
Deflationary risks can never be taken lightly in a post-bubble economy. Yet that's precisely what American investors and policy makers now seem to be doing. If the housing and consumer bubbles pop, then the risk of outright deflation will only increase. It's time to stop pretending this can't happen in the United States.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RECESSION (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (87%); TERRORISM (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); AGING TRENDS (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); BONDS (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); LUXURY GOODS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); HOUSING; STOCKS AND BONDS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

PERSON: ROACH, STEPHEN S 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



610 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Globalization, Alive and Well 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
If one were having a contest for the most wrongheaded prediction about the world after 9/11, the winner would be the declaration by the noted London School of Economics professor John Gray that 9/11 heralded the end of the era of globalization. Not only will Sept. 11 not be remembered for ending the process of global financial, trade and technological integration, but it may well be remembered for bringing some sobriety to the antiglobalization movement.
 If one thing stands out from 9/11, it's the fact that the terrorists originated from the least globalized, least open, least integrated corners of the world: namely, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Afghanistan and northwest Pakistan. Countries that don't trade in goods and services also tend not to trade in ideas, pluralism or tolerance. 
 But maybe the most important reason why globalization is alive and well post-9/11 is that while pampered college students and academics in the West continue to debate about whether countries should globalize, the two biggest countries in the world, India and China -- who represent one-third of humanity -- have long moved beyond that question. They have decided that opening their economies to trade in goods and services is the best way to lift their people out of abject poverty and are now focused simply on how to globalize in the most stable manner. Some prefer to go faster, and some prefer to phase out currency controls and subsidies gradually, but the debate about the direction they need to go is over.
"Globalization fatigue is still very much in evidence in Europe and America, while in places like China and India, you find a great desire for participation in the economic expansion processes," said Jairam Ramesh, the Indian Congress Party's top economic adviser. ". . . Even those who are suspicious now want to find a way to participate, but in a way that manages the risks and the pace. So we're finding ways to 'glocalize,' to do it our own way. It may mean a little slower growth to manage the social stability, but so be it. . . . I just spent a week in Germany and had to listen to all these people there telling me how globalization is destroying India and adding to poverty, and I just said to them, 'Look, if you want to argue about ideology, we can do that, but on the level of facts, you're just wrong.' "
That truth is most striking in Bangalore, India's Silicon Valley, where hundreds of thousands of young Indians, most from lower-middle-class families, suddenly have social mobility, motor scooters and apartments after going to technical colleges and joining the Indian software and engineering firms providing back-room support and research for the world's biggest firms -- thanks to globalization. Bangalore officials say each tech job produces 6.5 support jobs, in construction and services.
"Information technology has made millionaires out of ordinary people in India because of their brainpower alone -- not caste, not land, not heredity,"said Sanjay Baru, editor of India's Financial Express. "India is just beginning to realize that this process of globalization is one where we have an inherent advantage."
Taking advantage of globalization to develop the Indian I.T. industry has been "a huge win in terms of foreign exchange and in self-confidence," added Nandan Nilekani, chief executive of Infosys, the Indian software giant. "So many Indians come and say to me that 'when I walk through immigration at J.F.K. or Heathrow, the immigration guys look at me with respect now.' The image of India changed from a third-world country of snake charmers and rope tricks to the software brainy guys."
Do a majority of Indians still live in poor villages? Of course. Do we still need to make globalization more fair by compelling the rich Western countries to open their markets more to those things that the poor countries are best able to sell: food and textiles? You bet.
But the point is this: The debate about globalization before 9/11 got really stupid. Two simple truths got lost: One, globalization has its upsides and downsides, but countries that come at it with the right institutions and governance can get the best out of it and cushion the worst. Two, countries that are globalizing sensibly but steadily are also the ones that are becoming politically more open, with more opportunities for their people, and with a young generation more interested in joining the world system than blowing it up. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (94%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); RELIGION (74%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (72%); FAMILY (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); ENGINEERING (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TERRORISM; ISLAM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING 

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (57%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); GERMANY (53%) INDIA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



611 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: The World: Image Problems; 
A Place to Find Out for Yourself About the War

BYLINE:  By ERIC UMANSKY; Eric Umansky is a writer for Slate.com.

 BODY:
WITH all the speculation about American intentions for Iraq, there has been one place where, to the chagrin of the administration, people can find a few hard facts. Since August, any Web surfer has been able to view detailed satellite photographs of construction and expansion at an American air base in the Persian Gulf state of Qatar.
 Published by Globalsecurity.org, a military watchdog group, and taken over the last six months, the photographs show that the base, al-Udeid, has new aircraft shelters, storage tanks and parking ramps. 
 The close-ups have clearly irked the Pentagon. 
Commenting on the ability of outsiders to get them, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld grumbled, "I wish we didn't have to live with it." But that wish is unlikely to be granted, because the commercial satellite industry is blossoming. The existence of such photographs highlights what many consider to be the next information revolution and the government's sputtering efforts to control it.
It used to be that only the spy agencies of the two superpowers had the ability to take snapshots from space. That changed 16 years ago when a French commercial-government joint venture launched the world's first satellite offering photographs for sale. The quality of those early pictures wasn't particularly good, but in late 1999, an American company, Space Imaging, launched the first high-resolution satellite, Ikonos. It can take pictures with a clarity 10 times that of the French satellite -- enough to spot a car on the ground or an American airfield. Ikonos, as well as another American commercial satellite launched this year, took the photographs of al-Udeid. As with the Internet and Global Positioning Satellites, the Defense Department invented the satellite imaging technology, and it has tried since to keep some control over it. A 1992 law allows the government to declare any part of the earth off-limits to American commercial satellites to "meet significant national security or significant foreign policy concerns."
But news media organizations and freedom-of-information advocates contend that the provision, known as "shutter control," is so vague that it is unconstitutional. "There has long been a standard in which national security concerns can be invoked to limit the free flow of information," said Ann Florini, a fellow at the Brookings Institution. "It's that there must be a clear and present danger. This law forgets that." 
The issue remained theoretical until last October. That's when the government, concerned that Al Qaeda or the Taliban could use the satellites to peek at American maneuvers in Afghanistan, paid Space Imaging about $4 million for exclusive rights to photographs over the war zone. Though the deal was billed as a straightforward commercial transaction, the 1992 law requires American satellite companies to give exclusive rights to the government when it requests them. But no similar contract has been signed for the gulf, and in what appears to be a sign that the government is reconsidering the policy of shutter control, it says it may not seek such a contract. "It's no longer our first option," says David Burpee, spokesman at the federal National Imagery and Mapping Agency, which regulates commercial satellites. "That kind of deal can have a chilling effect on the industry, which runs counter to our efforts to promote it." 
International competitors have also started to emerge. A company operating in Cyprus and owned by Israelis has launched a satellite that is only slightly less capable than its American counterparts. France, Germany, Italy, Korea and India are planning to launch satellites that are as good or even better than the ones offered by the United States. Foreign satellite companies are free to ignore American laws.
Some experts are suggesting other efforts to prevent images from getting into the wrong hands. 
"The U.S. ought to be talking to other countries about developing international controls," said Ray Williamson, a professor at George Washington University's Space Policy Institute. 
One proposal, by Maj. Robert Fabian, a former chief of space control strategy for the United States Air Force, suggests using "space blockades" against foreign satellites suspected of selling photos to an enemy. Should a company and the country where it is based ignore diplomatic and economic pressure, Major Fabian recommends temporarily blinding the satellite.
If that doesn't work, he suggests a more lasting solution: "lethal enforcement," which "would likely include the physical destruction of the satellite."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A satellite photograph of the al-Udeid airfield in Quatar last June. (DigitalGlobe) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); TALIBAN (76%); AIRPORTS (75%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (74%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (72%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); ESPIONAGE (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); WAR & CONFLICT (60%); AL-QAEDA (60%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

PERSON: UMANSKY, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); QATAR (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



612 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Retirement Not Spoken Here

BYLINE:  By Hubert B. Herring 

 BODY:
As economic woes pile up, there's a quickening drumbeat of frustration: people have to put off that retirement party, or, worse, hang up the golf bag and drag themselves back to the working world. But for some, the idea of retirement is as alien as endlessly soaring stock prices. 
 Consider Dr. Ray H. Crist. He was a chemist at Union Carbide, then taught science at his alma mater, Dickinson College. Then, just past 70, he could have retired, but no -- he took a job as a professor of environmental science at Messiah College in Grantham, Pa. That was over 30 years ago, and he's still at it. 
 That, you'd think, would qualify him as some sort of dean of nonretirees. It has. Experience Works, which provides training and employment services for older workers, just anointed Dr. Crist, 102, as America's Oldest Worker for 2002. Maybe the fountain of youth isn't at the seventh tee after all. Hubert B. Herring

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); OLDER WORKERS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%) LABOR; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; AGED; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES 

ORGANIZATION: MESSIAH COLLEGE; EXPERIENCE WORKS (ORGN) 

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B; CRIST, RAY H (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%) GRANTHAM (PA)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



613 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
No Longer Jobless, but Probably Tan

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton 

 BODY:
A little more than a year ago, Jens Rasmussen said, he was an executive recruiter who hired accountants. That was before he rashly left his job without lining up another, and spent a month discovering just how tough it was to find work in New York.
 Today, his business card reads: Three Wheeled Warrior, one of those bicycle-powered rickshaws you see all over Midtown Manhattan, especially in the theater districts.
 And despite the slow economy, Mr. Rasmussen and other drivers say, business is good. The tourists are back, tips are still generous, and regular taxis remain hard to come by at rush hour and in the rain, when bike-cabbies attract impatient New Yorkers into their off-beat, three-wheeled vehicles. 
 Indeed, the biggest problem for pedicab drivers these days seems to be competition. A new company, Manhattan Pedicab, opened in May with 11 cabs, bringing to three the number of companies that lease the bicycle taxis to the drivers.
 The largest, Pedicabs of New York, has 40 vehicles, and George Bliss, the company's owner, estimates that there are more than 60 pedicabs on the streets, up from zero before he opened in 1995. The third company, Peter Meitzler's Manhattan Rickshaw, also opened that year.
 And there are plenty of people willing to push the pedals, which Mr. Bliss said is related to the recession. "We're turning people away a lot," he said. "People are over-qualified, and they just need to bring in some money."
 Because pedicab drivers can set their own hours, he continued, "it's convenient for people who are between jobs, and it's more interesting than bartending or waiting tables." Leasing a cab costs $30 to $40 a day, he said, and includes liability insurance.
 On average, rides cost $10 to $20. The drivers negotiate a price, and on a really good night, they say, they can make as much as $400. But there are slow times, and this year business has been more erratic than in the past, said Henry Munoz, a six-year veteran.
 "Last year was like this," he said, drawing a straight line through the air with his hand. "This year, you're up, you're down." The cabs did a lot of business late last year, when they were among the few vehicles that coould get around in Lower Manhattan; today, ground zero is still a popular destination. Drivers say about half their passengers are New Yorkers, not tourists.
 As pedicabs have become familiar sights in Manhattan, it has become easier to persuade people to climb aboard, said Dorothy S. Chen, 21, who has driven a 'trike" off and on for three years, and now does it full time. But there is a lot more competition, espcially around Broadway (outside the theater for "Beauty and the Beast" is her favorite place to find passengers). "Now we have to do a lot more hustling," she said.
 Ms. Cheng, who describes herself as "102 pounds, four-foot-ten and three-quarters," is proof that size is not a prerequisite for becoming a pedicabbie.
 What is necessary is salesmanship. Some of the drivers take the aggressive route. "They'll pull up to people and say, 'Get in, let's go,' " said Arthur J. Nichols, who started Manhattan Pedicab after years in the horse-drawn carriage business.
 Others take a different tack to distinguish themselves. Richard A. Sanford, 54, a retired schoolteacher from Brooklyn, was busily waxing and cleaning his trike last Wednesday before going out in the afternoon. He decorated the cab with signs, banners and flashing lights, and adorned himself with a stylish black cap and fluorescent tie.
 For Mr. Sanford, a bicycle enthusiast, driving the cab is a labor of love; the same is true for Mr. Bliss, who loathes cars and designs alternative transportation vehicles. In fact, Mr. Bliss likes his current location, on Broome Street at the corner of Thompson, because "we're right here in the face of traffic jams on the way to Holland Tunnel," he said. "We make a statement that you have other options."
 Thursday through Sunday, he sells some of those options, including bikes and scooters. But since the trade center attack, retail business in SoHo has dropped off. And so, somewhat to his surprise, the now-profitable pedicab business is actually keeping him afloat.
 Mr. Rasmussen, the former headhunter, also sounds surprised about his new career, which he began after Sept. 11 last year. "It turns out I like this a lot better," he said, waving to a former passenger flying by on a bicycle. "All things considered, it's been good."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dorothy S. Cheng drives a pedicab, a competitive endeavor these days. On Wednesday, she picked up two riders in the theater district, a good place to find passengers. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); THEATER (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (50%) PEDICABS (BICYCLE TAXIS); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WORKING HOURS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY 

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002 



614 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Earnings Setbacks Weigh on Stocks

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Disappointing earnings news from the likes of J. P. Morgan Chase, McDonald's, Electronic Data Systems, Morgan Stanley and Knight Ridder helped drive the stock market down for a fourth consecutive week.
 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 326.67 points, or 3.9 percent, to 7,986.02, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 44.42 points, or 5 percent, to 845.39. 
The Nasdaq composite index finished the week down 70.31 points, or 5.4 percent, at 1,221.09. 
 The decline left the three main indexes within easy striking distance of the lows they reached this summer, when the overall market fell to a five-year low. The new market weakness comes just ahead of this week's meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers, but a rate cut is not expected.
 The stocks with bad earnings news also fared poorly. J. P. Morgan fell 8.4 percent; McDonald's, 12.6 percent; Morgan Stanley, 13.8 percent; and Knight Ridder, 7.9 percent. But it was a far worse week for E.D.S., which plunged 54.3 percent.
 As stocks fell, interest rates moved even lower, the one bright spot for the week. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note ended at 3.78 percent, the lowest 10-year yield since 1961. JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" MGIC InvestmentNYSE: MTGThe mortgage insurer reduced its earnings forecasts for the year because of a rise in home-loan delinquencies and the boom in mortgage refinancings, which tends to reduce demand for mortgage insurance.Friday's Close: $41.58Week's Change: -24.71%EST. '02 P/E: 7.06 AlcoaNYSE: AAWorries about softening demand for aluminum and competition from China weighed on the stock of the leading United states aluminum company.Friday's Close: $21.12Week's Change: -3.96%EST. '02 P/E: 18.40 Goldman sachs GroupNYSE: GsGoldman teamed with starwood Capital to buy National Golf Properties, which owns more than 300 golf courses in the United states, Britain and other countries, for $1.1 billion in cash and assumed debt.Friday's Close: $67.36Week's Change: -7.73%EST. '02 P/E: 16.01 Hershey FoodsNYSE: HSYThe charitable trust that controls Hershey Foods called off its auction after it was on the verge of accepting a $12.5 billion offer from the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company.Friday's Close: $64.14Week's Change: -13.11%EsT. '02 P/E: 20.35 ComcastNNM: CMCsKComcast and AT&T said their proposed cable television merger cleared an important regulatory hurdle at the Justice Department, which took no action under antitrust law to block it.Friday's Close: $23.05Week's Change: -3.64%EsT. '02 P/E: 35.74 Merrill LynchNYSE: MERThe firm dismissed two senior executives, one of whom had been in the running to be its next chief executive, because they refused to cooperate with a federal investigation into the financing of Enron.Friday's Close: $33.80Week's Change: -7.07%EsT. '02 P/E: 12.22 Vivendi UniversalNYSE: VVivendi Universal Publishing, a subsidiary, said it had signed a 10-year licensing agreement with Marvel Enterprises to use 4,700 superheroes and characters in Internet-based video games.Friday's Close: $12.91Week's Change: -1.60%EsT. '02 P/E: 14.41 GoodrichNYSE: GRThe aircraft landing gear maker plans to sell assets to reduce the amount of equity financing it will need for its $1.5 billion purchase of the aeronautical business of TRW Inc.Friday's Close: $20.78Week's Change: -2.40%EsT. '02 P/E: 8.39 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EQUITY FINANCING (77%); BONDS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



615 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Some Experts Fear Political Influence on Crime Data Agencies 

BYLINE:  By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

 BODY:
Criminal justice experts say they have become increasingly concerned that the Justice Department under Attorney General John Ashcroft is moving to exert political control over previously independent agencies within the department that collect crime statistics and grant crime research awards.
 At stake, they say, is the integrity of statistics about whether crime is increasing or decreasing and the findings of scholars about what causes crime and how to reduce it. 
 The experts' worries center on several little-publicized developments involving the Bureau of Justice Statistics, the statistical arm of the Justice Department, and the National Institute of Justice, its research arm.
A Justice Department official said that despite the changes, the statistical reports maintained "the highest levels of integrity" and that there had been no political interference. 
The agencies, created by Congress, have long been independent of the attorney general and had been allowed to release reports or make research grants without clearance by the attorney general's office, former directors of these offices said.
But a number of employees in those agencies as well as former officials and leading scholars said in interviews that over the last year and with increasing speed recently, political appointees under Mr. Ashcroft have worked to undermine that independence.
These critics trace the shift to the passage in October of the U.S.A. Patriot Act, a sweeping antiterrorism measure that removed much of the freedom the directors of the Bureau of Justice Statistics and the National Institute of Justice had long enjoyed, giving their authority to the assistant attorney general for the Office of Justice Programs, Deborah Daniels, and her deputy, Tracy Henke.
In a report to Congress on these changes, Ms. Daniels, whose brother, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., is director of the Office of Management and Budget, said there was a need to centralize control over these agencies because of the Sept. 11 attacks. Ms. Henke is a close associate of Mr. Ashcroft and was responsible for inserting language in the Patriot Act undercutting the two agencies' independence, employees say.
One result of this change, the employees say, is that statistical reports and decisions about research grants are now being sent to Ms. Henke and Ms. Daniels and then to the attorney general for clearance before being publicly released. Another result, said the employees, who spoke on the condition of not being named, is that some reports and grants are being delayed for two to three months awaiting clearance.
Jan Chaiken, the director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics under President Bill Clinton, said, "I wouldn't have put up with that for 45 minutes." During his tenure, he sent statistical reports about crime to Attorney General Janet Reno, but only to brief her about the contents, and did not accept delays, he said.
"I selected a release date in advance, and controlled all my people, the printing presses and the Web sites, and we released the reports according to the release date," Mr. Chaiken said.
The dispute about control of crime statistics and research came into the open recently after a Justice Department official leaked a major report by the Bureau of Justice Statistics to The Associated Press. The report was the bureau's annual study of the crime rate and had been held up for two months awaiting review by senior Justice Department officials, employees familiar with it say. The report showed a 9 percent decrease in violent crimes. Not one of these people has raised an accusation that this report, or any other, has been skewed.
Although it might seem arcane, the crime victims' survey was "always hot news in the Justice Department" and in the Clinton White House, Mr. Chaiken said, because data showing a drop in crime were beneficial to the administration.
Leaking reports goes against guidelines of the National Research Council, a branch of the National Academy of Sciences, to ensure the integrity of federal economic, health and crime statistics. The guidelines emphasize that for a federal statistical agency to maintain credibility, all data must be widely and promptly released and be "perceived to be free of political interference."
Lawrence Greenfeld, the director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, was said to have expressed to senior department officials anger over the leak. Asked about his response, Mr. Greenfeld said in a telephone interview, "I don't think my reaction is relevant."
Instead, Mr. Greenfeld emphasized several times that "All B.J.S. reports have the highest levels of integrity and accuracy." He did not mention that Ms. Henke, the principal deputy assistant attorney general for the Office of Justice Programs, was monitoring the phone interview without a reporter's knowledge, according to two other employees. A spokesman for the Justice Department refused to comment on the monitoring.
In another action that has worried scholars and career employees of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, Ms. Daniels sent a directive in late August saying that jobs in the agency would be "outsourced," or turned over for bid to the private sector.
Alfred Blumstein, a professor of statistics and criminology at Carnegie Mellon University, said that outsourcing the analysis of crime statistics "seems inappropriate in the extreme," because it could lead to political abuses.
Mr. Greenfeld said that outsourcing was a policy of the Bush administration and was taking place all over the government. "Everything that has ever been done at B.J.S. has the highest integrity, and I don't think that will ever be changed," he said.
In addition, bureau employees received an e-mail directive recently not to talk to journalists and to route news media calls to a public affairs officer. Until now, bureau experts have been available to answer reporters' queries about statistics. Mr. Greenfeld said the directive represented no change in policy.
But Professor Blumstein, who helped found the Bureau of Justice Statistics in 1968, said the recent actions represented "the most intrusive effort by the political appointees in the Justice Department to control the shaping and dissemination of statistics since I've been involved."
He said he was particularly troubled by a statement by Ms. Daniels that centralizing control over the Bureau of Justice Statistics and the National Institute of Justice would ensure that the Justice Department "speaks with one voice" on crime issues. In a letter to Ms. Daniels, Professor Blumstein said, "Sometimes statistics and research findings will be in conflict with Justice Department policy, so requiring a single voice will undermine the independence of statistics and research." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (96%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); CRIME STATISTICS (91%); STATISTICS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); US PATRIOT ACT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; STATISTICS; RESEARCH 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (84%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE (84%) JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS; NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE 

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (77%); BILL CLINTON (58%) BUTTERFIELD, FOX; ASHCROFT, JOHN (ATTY GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



616 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Germans Vote in a Tight Election in Which Bush, Hitler and Israel Became Key Issues 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
Germans vote Sunday in one of the closest elections of the postwar era with the Social Democrats of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder running only slightly ahead of the conservative alliance led by Edmund Stoiber in a race that is too tight to call.
 It has been an aggressive campaign, tainted by accusations of anti-Americanism and anti-Semitism, and one that has broken some of the country's long-held taboos and challenged some traditional assumptions about the Germans. 
 Controversy over remarks attributed to the country's justice minister comparing the political tactics of President Bush concerning Iraq to those of Hitler, has overshadowed the last days of the campaign and may influence the voters in ways the final polls here cannot measure.
The reported comments by Herta Daubler-Gmelin, a member of Mr. Schroder's Social Democratic Party, have further embittered relations with a Bush administration already furious over Mr. Schroder's forceful opposition to war with Iraq. 
On Friday, Mr. Schroder wrote a letter to Mr. Bush apologizing for "the supposed remarks" of Ms. Daubler-Gmelin, which she denies having made in so blunt a fashion.
But Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, said the atmosphere between the two countries had been poisoned.
"How can you use the name of Hitler and the name of the president of the United States in the same sentence?" Ms. Rice told The Financial Times. "Particularly, how can a German, given the devotion of the U.S. in the liberation of Germany from Hitler? An atmosphere has been created that is in that sense poisoned."
Ms. Rice added: "I would say it's not been a happy time with Germany. There have clearly been some things said that are way beyond the pale."
The whole embarrassing affair is dominating Germany's news media this weekend. The scandal is likely to animate Mr. Stoiber's supporters and hurt Mr. Schroder, but no one knows how much.
As Mr. Schroder has tried to buck the trend toward the right in Europe, he has benefited in the polls by his refusal to accept Mr. Bush's arguments for war in Iraq, calling the policy a terrible mistake.
Mr. Schroder's appeal to the postwar German love for peace and his advocacy of a policy independent of Washington, which the chancellor has called "the German way," have shored up his support among both the German left, which mistrusts Mr. Bush and American "unilateralism," and the nascent nationalist right, which believes that Germany must carve out its own path. 
Mr. Stoiber has criticized Mr. Schroder for "German unilateralism" and "anti-Americanism," but the issue has helped the chancellor divert attention from Germany's weak economy and unemployment.
American officials view Mr. Schroder's position on Iraq as political opportunism, but he has tapped into a rising concern about the Bush administration that is taking hold in other European countries as well.
Those concerns, stemming from the Bush administration's rejection of the Kyoto environmental treaty and of the International Criminal Court as well as its policy on Iraq, will only be exacerbated by Mr. Bush's new national security strategy, which proposes pre-emptive action by the United States and warns NATO that its relevance to Washington will depend on its ability to fight in America's wars.
This election, the first with Berlin as the capital of a reunited Germany, has challenged many of the assumptions of postwar German politics.
German elections are supposed to be about economic and domestic issues -- that has been Mr. Stoiber's conviction, as he has campaigned on what he has called "the catastrophe" of four million unemployed and a growth rate of only 0.6 percent a year, one of the lowest in Europe, and on the dangers posed by too many immigrants.
His likely coalition partners, the Free Democrats, also bet on the economy being the deciding issue, campaigning for smaller government, lower taxes and structural economic change.
But Germans do not seem to want major economic change, and this election, at the end, seems to be turning on foreign policy.
German elections are also supposed to be about parties and party platforms in a parliamentary system, but this campaign has been dominated by the personalities of Mr. Schroder and Mr. Stoiber, who engaged in Germany's first televised political debates.
The most extraordinary example of personality politics is, ironically, the Greens, a political movement that was founded as an antiestablishment, pacifist, environmentalist protest against bureaucracy. But its leader, Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, is the most popular politician in Germany, and the party campaigns with signs that say "Joschka" on a green background, as if it were the "Joschka" party.
German elections are never supposed to be about the fundamental untouchables of postwar German policy -- its close ties to the United States, NATO and the European Union.
But this election has made hollow most of these cliches, without identifying any clear new direction for a reunited Germany.
Germans are voting for a new Bundestag, or lower house of Parliament, which will determine the next government. Germans vote for an individual candidate in their constituency, then vote again for their preferred party, with seats distributed proportionately. The number of seats has been reduced this year to 598, but there could be more, if a party wins more direct mandates than its percentage of the vote.
But given Germany's system, no large party will win an overall majority, so a coalition will have to be formed. Given the tightness of the race between the two main parties, the Social Democrats and the conservative alliance of the Christian Democratic Union/Christian Social Union, the future government will depend on the performance of the smaller parties -- the Free Democrats, who are closer to the conservatives, and the Greens, who are in the current coalition with Mr. Schroder.
One main question is whether the former Communist Party of the former East Germany -- reformed and now named the Party of Democratic Socialists -- makes it back into Parliament. To do so, it must win at least 5 percent of the vote or three direct seats, and the polls suggest that will be difficult. If the party does not enter Parliament, it will increase the seats given to the other parties. 
The last polls all show Mr. Schroder's Social Democrats in a narrow lead, but within the margin of error. The Allensbach Institute, which came closest to predicting the final results in 1998, shows the Social Democrats at 37.5 percent and the conservatives at 37 percent.
The Free Democrats were projected to win 9.5 percent and the Greens 7.5 percent, with the former Communists at 4.5 percent, below the 5 percent threshold. These results could leave the Free Democrats in the position of kingmaker, able to negotiate with either large party.
But other polls show the Free Democrats closer to 7 percent, hurt by the remarks of its deputy leader criticizing Israel and a prominent German Jew, which were regarded by many as anti-Semitic.
Count Otto Lambsdorff, a former finance minister for the Free Democrats, discussed Germany's deep economic problems, almost ignored in the final days of the campaign, and asked: "Why are one of these big parties so eager to run this country? Are they masochists?"
He also offered another pungent view of elections, which he attributed to Bismarck, the 19th-century German statesman known as the Iron Chancellor: "There are never more lies than after the hunt, before the wedding and before the election."
Most Germans agree, it seems. A poll by Emnid for N-TV found that a majority were unhappy with both the government and the opposition and skeptical of promises.
Germans were asked, on the subject of Iraq, what they thought of the statement: "The government's declaration that Germany will not take part in an expansion of the U.S. war against terrorism is not credible because it was made during the election campaign."
Some 58 percent agreed, and only 38 percent disagreed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder used his opposition to President Bush's policy on Iraq to pull even in the polls as Germans go prepare to vote. (Associated Press); Edmund Stoiber, the conservative candidate, helped open Munich's Oktoberfest on the eve of German voting. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); SCANDALS (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); TRENDS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); POISONINGS (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSERVATIVE ALLIANCE (84%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%) ERLANGER, STEVEN; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); STOIBER, EDMUND; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HITLER, ADOLF (1889-1945); DAUBLER-GMELIN, HERTA (MIN); RICE, CONDOLEEZZA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (79%) GERMANY; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



617 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3050 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DIPOMACY; 
Bush's Push on Iraq at U.N.: Headway, Then New Barriers

BYLINE:  By JULIA PRESTON with TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
Secretary General Kofi Annan smiled broadly when he stepped to the microphones on Monday afternoon to report the breakthrough: Iraq would allow United Nations weapons inspectors to return "without conditions." But his news made United States officials furious.
 A few blocks away in his suite at the Waldorf Astoria hotel, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell interrupted a meeting with the foreign minister of Egypt to read the Iraqi offer, which was drafted with Mr. Annan's advice and brokered with his blessing to avert war. In an instant, Iraq's move put the brakes on the diplomatic charge that President Bush had started with a powerful speech just four days earlier, calling on the United Nations to hold President Saddam Hussein accountable for defying its resolutions. 
 Because it came from a president whose tendency has been to go it alone in world affairs, Mr. Bush's warning -- that the United Nations must prove its authority to Iraq or watch Washington oust Mr. Hussein -- stirred up the world organization in a way not seen for years. 
An administration reluctant to have the United States' power tied down by smaller players had suddenly sprung into action on every front, phone-calling, handshaking and horse-trading from Washington to New York to Moscow to Beijing.
But Iraq's offer, engineered under pressure from Arab states wary of war, brought a swift return to business as usual in the glass and steel tower here on the East River. By week's end, the White House was venting its irritation with Mr. Annan for failing to get a guarantee of unfettered access for the inspectors. 
Washington was fencing with France, which holds a veto over any Security Council resolution to confront Iraq. Despite a half-hour phone call on Friday morning, Mr. Bush himself could not persuade his friend President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, another permanent member of the Security Council, to join him in supporting a tough resolution to threaten military force against Mr. Hussein.
The Bush administration was just where it hoped not to be. Instead of fostering a diplomatic unity that masked the underlying disparity between a United States geared for war and a majority of nations fearful of or opposed to military action, American officials warned of a "difficult debate" in the Security Council. At home, the White House found itself working hard to persuade doubting Democrats in Congress to provide an open-ended authorization for a military attack. 
Although many nations worried that Washington would plunge into another Persian Gulf war, this time to defend its own interests, the administration pressed its demands for a new Council resolution.
It wanted the United Nations to set a deadline for admitting weapons inspectors and to threaten "consequences" if Iraq did not comply.
American officials were betting that Baghdad would balk -- as it did today in a statement from the leadership read on Iraqi state radio -- if the Council changed the ground rules for the inspections.

Opening Moves
Planning the Approach As Concern Builds
In the doldrums of July, Vice President Dick Cheney, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, Secretary Powell and Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, started talking more and more about taking on Mr. Hussein. They resumed planning for a showdown they had initiated early in the administration but postponed after the Sept. 11 attacks last year.
They examined military options, senior administration officials said, and tried to find ways to make their proposal for a leadership change in Iraq more like a liberation than an oil-grabbing American occupation. 
From the beginning, President Bush "was pretty clear he wanted to seek international support," one official said. But he did not want to get roped into a multilateral tangle that it could not shake loose if the rest of the world refused to go along.
During his August sojourn at his ranch in Crawford, Tex., Mr. Bush began to lead discussions on Iraq, the officials said. The president saw the General Assembly, where he was scheduled to speak on Sept. 12, as the forum where he should rally the world to his view that Mr. Hussein was an outlaw developing weapons of mass destruction who might someday hand one to a terrorist.
A rare moment of agreement between Mr. Powell and Mr. Cheney on Iraq policy produced the idea that the president should challenge the United Nations to live up to its responsibilities. Both men concurred, a senior administration official said, that "the United Nations was behaving in a way that diminished its credibility" by allowing Mr. Hussein to go on for years barring weapons inspectors and ignoring Security Council resolutions requiring him to disarm, settle with Kuwait and respect human rights.
"We knew we had to find a way for the United Nations to play a role, but it couldn't be the kind of resolution it passed before," the official said.
But Mr. Cheney conveyed a different message when he opened the administration's campaign against Iraq in a speech to the Veterans of Foreign Wars in Nashville on Aug. 26. He spoke so disparagingly of past United Nations weapons inspections that he left the impression the administration would not go anywhere near that route, or the United Nations, ever again.
After his speech raised international alarm that the administration was becoming a loose cannon, Mr. Cheney promised his colleagues that he would clarify his remarks. In a second speech three days later, he did. 
Secretary General Annan was also thinking in August of the General Assembly, but his concern centered on "the general unilateralist noise coming out of Washington," a United Nations official said. He began to craft the speech he would give, by long tradition, on the first day of the assembly debate, just before the president's.
Mr. Annan knew from painful past experience that the United Nations could not really function without the support of the world's only superpower. 
"No purpose is served by him coming to be identified by the United States as an adversary," the official said. "You can't afford to do that. You just break the machine."
The secretary general went through draft after draft of his speech, looking for "delicate" language to convince his global audience -- without naming the United States -- that multilateral action through the United Nations was the most effective way to defend international security.
Mr. Annan realized that his message would be on key after all when he received a call from President Bush on Sept. 9. The president told Mr. Annan that he would make the confrontation with Iraq "a multilateral decision," American and United Nations officials said. But Mr. Bush also let him know that his patience was not eternal.
"If the United Nations was unable to act," the president said, according to an administration official, "the United States would look at alternative means of ensuring there were no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq." 
By the time his speech was set in print, Mr. Annan felt it would be one of his most important as secretary general. He sent President Bush a copy on Sept. 11 and, in a rare departure from the United Nations' tiptoe protocol, he authorized his staff to release the text that night, so his words would appear in the global news media well ahead of President Bush's. 
Mr. Annan was careful to include a phrase that United States officials loved when they heard it. "If Iraq's defiance continues, " the secretary general said, "the Security Council must face its responsibilities."

Days of Change
A Twisting Path After the Triumph
"We knew it was a home run right away," said one United States official of President Bush's Sept. 12 speech. "I almost want to use the word 'glee' to describe the reaction. The diplomats were saying that we saved the United Nations."
The president's address struck like a bolt of electric energy in the assembly hall. There was also palpable relief that the United States would try to strengthen the United Nations instead of sidelining it. As the president spoke, Secretary Powell sat in the United States delegate's seat in the assembly chamber, savoring a victory for his long insistence on international consultation.
It was a day of unusual harmony between the administration and the United Nations, with Mr. Bush announcing that the United States would rejoin Unesco, the cultural and scientific organization from which the Reagan administration withdrew nearly two decades ago, saying its values were anti-American. At a lunch after his speech, Mr. Bush toasted Mr. Annan and spoke of "continued cooperation between the United States and the United Nations."
Suddenly Mr. Hussein was on the wrong side of an enormous swell of pressure. The prospect of war seemed much closer. 
On Sept. 13, Secretary Powell pressed his advantage. He held more than a dozen meetings into the night with foreign ministers from major nations, including all 15 members of the Security Council, plus separate sessions with each of the foreign ministers of Japan, Canada and Qatar, the last a Persian Gulf state whose cooperation would be vital to any military campaign against Iraq. 
At the same time, Arab diplomats also mobilized, led by Foreign Minister Ahmed Maher of Egypt, by Amr Moussa, the Egyptian secretary general of the Arab League, and by foreign ministers from Lebanon and Jordan. In a series of meetings with Mr. Annan, Arab leaders argued that an American attack on Iraq could enrage the public and destabilize their entire region. 
It was the secretary general -- whom Secretary Powell referred to in easier times as "my man Kofi" -- who shifted the tide. While all the media attention had gone to President Bush's address, Mr. Annan's speech had been even more popular. Buoyed, Mr. Annan decided to drop in on a closed-door caucus of the Arab League on Sept. 14.
For years, the Security Council's focus with Iraq had been on inspections to ensure that Mr. Hussein was not building biological, chemical or nuclear weapons. The United Nations inspectors had pulled out in December 1998, just before bombing raids by the United States and Britain, and Mr. Hussein refused to allow them back.
Now Mr. Annan saw that there was broad support among the nations gathered in New York for the return of the inspectors to Iraq, as a means of testing Mr. Hussein one last time and putting off a war that no one except the Bush administration and its close ally, Britain, felt quite ready for. 
One senior Arab diplomat recalled that after Mr. Annan departed the meeting, leaving the Arab leaders alone, they all piled on Foreign Minister Naji Sabri of Iraq about the inspectors.
"Our main point was, 'If you don't allow the inspectors in, you are getting a strike,"' the diplomat said. "And Iraq is coming back and saying whether they allow them in or not is immaterial, and we say: 'No, if you let them back in, you'll create a dynamic."'
By late Saturday afternoon, the diplomat said, there was an outpouring of appeals on the inspectors to Mr. Hussein from other Arabs, including the Lebanese foreign minister, Mahmud Hammud, and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt.
Mr. Annan tried not to get ahead of Washington. On Sunday, Sept. 15, he called Secretary Powell to bring him up to date on his efforts. He called the secretary again on Monday, United Nations and United States officials said.
Sooner than anyone expected, Iraqi officials had decided to relent on the inspectors. They went to Mr. Annan for advice on drafting the letter to him in which they would make their offer. The secretary general worked to dissuade the Iraqis from using the letter to reassert a host of conditions on the weapons inspections. 
But he could not persuade Iraqi officials to guarantee the inspectors "unfettered access" in Iraq, a term of art meaning they could look into any site they chose in their hunt for prohibited weapons. 
The French then threw Washington a curveball on Monday. Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin argued passionately, at a lunch with reporters, that the Security Council should not immediately threaten military action against Iraq, as the United States proposed, but focus closely on the return of the inspectors. He suggested that the Bush administration was underestimating the difficulties of a military operation in Iraq. 
"We feel that Europe needs the United States, but the United States also needs Europe," Mr. De Villepin said. "You just cannot go out and do things alone."
By late Monday afternoon, Mr. Annan was ready to announce the deal crafted with Iraq.
He made his statement under the bright lights at the main entrance to the United Nations building, crediting Mr. Bush's speech and Arab pressure for Baghdad's change of heart.
Marwan Muasher, foreign minister of Jordan, Iraq's neighbor, soon hailed the Iraqi move. "The letter is clear and I think we should take it at face value and work with it," Mr. Muasher said. "We have taken a step back at least from a course that would lead us to war."
But United States officials were upset. Mr. Annan, they felt, had defeated them at their own game: spin control. 
"Clearly the hope of the secretary general was to get out in front of the story before anyone else could," one administration official fumed. 
On Tuesday morning, Ambassador John D. Negroponte told Mr. Annan of the American displeasure, and other American diplomats berated Fred Eckhard, the secretary general's spokesman. With intense negotiations on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict also under way, Mr. Annan called Mr. Powell and also Ms. Rice on Tuesday to try to mitigate the Iraq damage.

Into Discord
A Clash Among Allies, And Words From Iraq
For Secretary Powell, working on Tuesday from his Waldorf Astoria suite, the news did not at first seem all bad. He began his day with a private session with the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal. According to a senior administration official, the prince expressed skepticism about the Iraqi offer and said his kingdom would insist on "unfettered access" for weapons inspectors. Secretary Powell took that as a good sign.
But the secretary found himself in a multilateral ambush at a late morning news conference at the United Nations, which was supposed to be about the discussions on the Israeli-Palestinian fighting. Russian Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov, on the same platform with Secretary Powell, flatly contradicted the secretary's view that the Security Council still needed a new resolution to force Iraq to meet its disarmament requirements -- at least for the moment. 
Mr. Ivanov's disagreement was sharp enough that Secretary Powell felt forced to respond to him equally forcefully, insisting it would be "appropriate" for the Security Council to spell out in a new resolution "what the consequences for inaction" would be for Iraq. 
"What has changed in the last few days is not the letter that came in yesterday," Secretary Powell said. "It's the full will of the international community being directed at this problem." 
American officials later tried to find a silver lining in Mr. Ivanov's remarks, noting that he had not ruled out a resolution at some point, nor directly threatened a Russian veto.
Apparently, diplomats from other nations said, Moscow was still deciding what price it wanted Washington to pay for at least tacit Kremlin support of action on Iraq. Mr. Putin had notably taken advantage a day before Mr. Bush's speech, using the Sept. 11 anniversary of the terrorist attacks on America to demand Russian military action in Georgia to roust Chechen rebels there.
But the clash between the two Security Council veto powers was so visible that Mr. Annan felt compelled to mediate, closing the session with a call for unity.
Unexpectedly, American officials were playing a defensive game. At the United Nations, they began to look for any sign that Iraq did not intend to cooperate fully with the weapons inspectors and to browbeat United Nations officials for being insufficiently vigilant. 
Secretary Powell was on the telephone constantly. Top administration officials fanned out to capitals across the globe, and important foreign officials -- prominent among them Mr. Ivanov -- visited Washington.
In Moscow, American officials argued that Russia's economic interests would be better served by an Iraq that was not an international pariah constrained by severe sanctions. Similar economic arguments were pitched to France, which has oil contracts and other lucrative interests in Iraq. 
With one accustomed ally, Germany, there was little discussion at all. A damaging rift that had developed with Chancellor Gerhard Schroder over Iraq exploded by week's end into open frostiness after the German justice minister, a member of Mr. Schroder's party, reportedly compared Mr. Bush's tactics on Iraq to those of Hitler.
The split made it seem likely, German officials said, that the United States would withdraw any support for Germany's bid for a permanent, veto-bearing seat on the Security Council.
Fortunately for Washington, the diplomatic flow turned again on Thursday, largely thanks to Mr. Hussein himself.
In an unvarnished letter he sent to the General Assembly, Mr. Hussein declared that his nation was free of weapons of mass destruction but offered no guarantee of cooperation with the United Nations weapons teams and seemed to impose new conditions on them, saying they would have to respect Iraq's "sovereignty." 
Responding to President Bush in radical language long abandoned by most other Arab leaders, President Hussein accused the United States and Israel -- "the Zionist entity" -- of seeking to seize Iraq's oil and dominate the world. Mr. Hussein's message helped President Bush as he sent Congress his request for authorization to use military force against Iraq, arguing that it would strengthen his hand in the negotiations in the Security Council.
Sensing the battle royal to come in the Council, Mr. Annan decided to lie low. Mr. Eckhard said he had rejected dozens of interview requests this week.
But on Friday, Mr. Annan appeared in public leading the annual ringing of the United Nations peace bell, donated by Japan. In a new twist, the secretary general called for the whole world to honor a cease-fire in all conflicts for one day on Sept. 21.
With all the talk of war in Iraq, hardly anyone noticed Mr. Annan's appeal.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush, after stirring the General Assembly with his speech on Sept. 12.; Forceful words and quiet calculation: on Sept. 12, Secretary General Kofi Annan had both, already actively shaping debate on Iraq. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 24) Chart/Photos: "TIME LINE -- Days Of Debate On Iraq"President George W. Bush called for action against Iraq, but other world leaders seemed satisfied with renewed inspections. THURS., SEPT. 12 -- AT THE UNITED NATIONS IRAQSecretary General Kofi Annan appealed to the General Assembly for multilateralism. President Bush pressed the assembly to enforce resolutions on Iraq, warning of American military action if it did not. FRI., SEPT. 13 -- RUSSIAIgor S. Ivanov, Russia's foreign minister, warned that Iraq would face "consequences" for failing to cooperate with Security Council resolutions. SAT., SEPT. 14 -- IRAQTariq Aziz, Iraq's deputy prime minister, rejected Mr. Bush's call for the unconditional return of inspectors, saying, "We have had a bad experience with them." SAT., SEPT. 14 -- BRITAINJack Straw, Britain's foreign secretary, said Mr. Hussein's government would have to fall if it did not comply with Security Council resolutions requiring it to rid itself of biological, chemical and nuclear weapons. SUN., SEPT. 15 -- IRAQNaji Sabri, Iraq's foreign minister, insisted that any new inspections be tied to the lifting of U.N. sanctions, and that all nations in the Middle East, including Israel, be obliged to eliminate weapons of mass destruction. SUN., SEPT. 15 -- ARAB FOREIGN MINISTERSMahmud Hammud, the Lebanese foreign minister, speaking on behalf of Arab foreign ministers, said the ministers wanted Iraq to implement the Security Council resolutions and end the current crisis. MON., SEPT. 16 -- FRANCEDominique de Villepin, France's foreign minister, reasserted France's proposal that a first step should be a Security Council resolution on Iraq with no threat of military force. MON., SEPT. 16 -- UNITED NATIONSThe United Nations received a letter from Mr. Sabri, saying Iraq would allow the unconditional return of U.N. inspectors. TUES., SEPT. 17 WED., SEPT. 18 -- UNITED NATIONSMr. Annan told Iraq he expected "full and unconditional" cooperation with U.N. weapons inspectors when they return to Iraq. WED., SEPT. 18 -- GERMANYGerhard Schrder, Germany's chancellor, said the world should work to subvert the government of Mr. Hussein "from within," without a military assault. THURS., SEPT. 19 -- UNITED STATES CONGRESSPresident Bush asked Congress for authority to use military force to disarm and dislodge Mr. Hussein. FRI., SEPT. 20 -- UNITED STATESThe United States and Britain pushed the Security Council to adopt a resolution that defined the consequences if Iraq failed to comply with the inspections. (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); VETO (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (56%) PRESTON, JULIA; PURDUM, TODD S; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%); FRANCE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EGYPT (92%); GULF STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%); LEBANON (79%) IRAQ; RUSSIA; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



618 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: The Life of Monkeyboy 

BYLINE:  By Adam Cohen; Adam Cohen writes editorials for The New York Times and is author of "The Perfect Store: Inside eBay."

 BODY:
 BAD BOY BALLMER
The Man Who Rules Microsoft.
By Fredric Alan Maxwell.
278 pp. New York: William Morrow. $26.95.
 Computer geeks amused themselves in the summer of 2001 by e-mailing around a now-famous video of Steve Ballmer, the C.E.O. of Microsoft, firing up his troops. The clip, quickly dubbed the "monkeyboy video," featured a sweat-drenched Ballmer prancing across a stage, arms flailing, screaming: "Whoo! Whoo! Come on, get up, get up, get up. . . . I! Love! This! Company! Yesssss!" One tech columnist likened Ballmer's gyrations to "a moose being poked with a cattle prod and maybe enjoying it a bit too much." Another suggested Ballmer seemed in need of medical attention. 
Ballmer's monkeyboy act seemed freakish to the uninitiated, but those who knew him were not surprised. Ballmer had, after all, once shouted "Windows! Windows!" so furiously at a sales meeting in Japan that he ripped his vocal cords, requiring surgery. And industry rivals who have negotiated with, or competed against, the linebacker-size Ballmer trade tales of his chilling intensity. One C.E.O., treated to a good-cop, bad-cop routine from Bill Gates and Ballmer, called the pair "the Pearly Gates and the Em-balmer: one sets you up for heaven and the other prepares you for death."
In the public mind, Gates has always been the embodiment of Microsoft. But for the past two decades, while Gates has been the software giant's technology guru and public face, it has been Ballmer, a close friend of Gates from their undergraduate days at Harvard, who has quietly made Microsoft work as a company. Ballmer took on a more public role in early 2000, when he was promoted from president to Gates's former position of C.E.O. (Gates retained the title of chairman.) Now, as head of a company with a stock market valuation of more than $250 billion, Ballmer is arguably the leading businessman on the planet. 
Operating behind the scenes, Ballmer managed to avoid being the subject of a biography. But now Fredric Alan Maxwell, who grew up in the same Detroit suburb as Ballmer at roughly the same time, has filled the void. Maxwell, whose publisher bills him as a "researcher and writer," has dug up some interesting stories, particularly from Ballmer's early days, but he has produced a clunky book that is far less interesting than its subject.
Like so many technology titans, Ballmer started out as a misfit. The son of a Swiss immigrant father and a Jewish American mother, Ballmer was an awkward child who excelled in academics. Despite his hulking size, he had more enthusiasm than talent when it came to sports. To be part of the basketball program at his Birmingham, Mich., prep school, Ballmer volunteered as team manager. He was, the coach recalls, the best manager he had ever seen: the balls and towels were always where they should be, and the team stats were perfect.
When Ballmer arrived at Harvard, he struck up a friendship with Gates, forged in movie outings and late-night study sessions. But even then, it was clear the two men had fundamentally different natures: Gates was the nerdy code writer, Ballmer the hard-driving business careerist. When Gates built his software company, he did it with another classmate, Paul Allen. Ballmer was off selling ads for The Harvard Crimson, and putting The Advocate, Harvard's literary journal, on firmer financial footing.
While Gates and Allen toiled away at their fledgling company, Ballmer honed his marketing skills at Procter & Gamble, where he helped sell Duncan Hines's Moist & Easy product line. But after a year at Stanford Business School, Ballmer left the safe corporate path to join Gates, whose little computer start-up was now racking up $12.5 million in annual sales. 
Ballmer played a classic role in tech start-ups: he was the bottom-line-oriented grown-up, who freed the computer nerds to focus on writing code. As soon as Ballmer arrived, he set to work hiring needed staff, rewriting Microsoft's generous overtime policies and generally professionalizing the company. 
Ballmer had undeniable charisma and a knack for inspiring the rank and file. He also brought with him from Procter & Gamble a talent for branding that proved crucial to Microsoft's success. One Microsoft insider described the Ballmer-scripted, $250 million marketing campaign for Windows 95 as "what God would have done to announce the Ten Commandments, if only he had Bill Gates's money."
These were, as the federal courts have affirmed, harshly competitive and in some instances law-breaking times at Microsoft, and Ballmer was intimately involved in the company's hardball tactics. Maxwell runs through the depressing litany: the "vaporware" (phony announcements of product releases, designed to throw off the competition); "hidden API's" (secret bugs in Microsoft's code, to trip up rivals' software); and ideas repeatedly, and blatantly, stolen from competitors. 
Ballmer's attitude toward the government's attempts to address these wrongs has sometimes been boorish. When a federal judge refused to sign off on an early antitrust settlement, Ballmer told reporters that "the judge needed a brain." When the Justice Department filed a more sweeping antitrust suit, Ballmer publicly declared, "To hell with Janet Reno." 
A tech biography lives or dies by revealing, or at least entertaining, personal glimpses. Maxwell offers up a few, including a wildly improbable tale of Ballmer and Gates, as college students, going to Studio 54 and bumping into Ballmer's second cousin, Gilda Radner, who was partying with John Belushi.
But too much of the book has an emptying-the-notebook feel. Maxwell is the kind of writer who has trouble resisting the irrelevant aside (the connection, say, between Hitler and Harvard football) or the accretion of obvious detail. To be fair, the paucity of new revelations is not entirely Maxwell's fault. Ballmer refused to cooperate with him, and Maxwell had to do battle with Microsoft's public relations army. Any journalist who has covered Microsoft can sympathize with his complaint that "in 15 years of professional writing I have never come upon a less helpful group of public affairs people."
Despite the dot-com collapse, a nasty recession and a bruising antitrust battle, Microsoft is standing taller than ever, and Ballmer has stepped into the spotlight as its pugnacious leader. Maxwell was right to see that we are in need of an insightful, detailed biography of this singular corporate force of nature. Unfortunately, we still are. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); WRITERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); ATHLETES (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (65%); LITERATURE (65%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (65%); BASKETBALL (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (53%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (92%); BILL GATES (79%) COHEN, ADAM; MAXWELL, FREDRIC ALAN; BALLMER, STEVEN A 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (75%) MICHIGAN, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (70%)

TITLE: BAD BOY BALLMER: THE MAN WHO RULES MICROSOFT (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



619 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 8139 words

HEADLINE: The Sunshine Warrior 

BYLINE:  By Bill Keller; Bill Keller is a Times columnist and a senior writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Fort Leavenworth in midsummer is a sultry campus for the Army's new leaders, American and allied majors on the fast track and generals who have just earned their first star. When Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy secretary of defense, steps out of an Air Force Gulfstream into the Kansas heat, it is not just an overdue courtesy call and not just a peace overture to a rankled service. (He has just killed the Army's prized new $11 billion artillery piece, the Crusader.) It is one more engagement in the war over the coming war.
 The subject of his remarks, which the former political-science professor delivers seminar style to the majors and more formally to the generals, is his recent visit to Afghanistan. But Iraq is never far out of sight. Introducing Wolfowitz to an auditorium full of new one-stars and their wives, General Eric K. Shinseki, the Army chief of staff, points out that as a young Pentagon analyst Wolfowitz directed a secret assessment of Persian Gulf threats that marked Iraq as a menace to its neighbors and to American interests. This, Shinseki informs them with everything but a drumroll, was in 1979, a dozen years before Desert Storm. 
 Wolfowitz then proceeds to use Afghanistan to illustrate how far the military's pinpoint-targeting ability has advanced since that war, when American air and ground forces, unable to communicate with one another, succeeded in destroying only a single one of Saddam Hussein's Scud missile emplacements (and that one was a harmless decoy). The message is that next time around, if there is a next time, what was demonstrated in Afghanistan -- that choreography of unmanned aerial vehicles, precision-guided weapons, indigenous insurgents and special-operations soldiers on the ground -- should, in the first hours of an attack, prove far more adroit at disabling Saddam's most fearsome weapons.
Soldiers tend to cock an eyebrow when civilians who have not known combat talk confidently about the coming conquest, but the closest thing to an open challenge this day comes during Wolfowitz's session with the majors -- from a British officer who raises a hand and asks about Scott Ritter, the former U.N. weapons inspector. Ritter has been in London arguing that Iraq's destructive capability is already neutralized. So where is the threat worth spending American blood? 
An exasperated look crosses Wolfowitz's wide, boyish face; Ritter's comments are "simply amazing," he says. Then he stops himself. He acknowledges that Ritter knows something about Iraq and concedes that Saddam has probably not been able to rebuild his nuclear program, not yet. But he notes that when inspectors went in after the gulf war, they found he was far closer than anyone imagined, that in fact he was pursuing four separate avenues for manufacturing a nuclear weapon. And chemical weapons, which he has employed against his own people, or biological weapons are threat enough, and much easier to construct in a secretive, fearsome police state. This is, Wolfowitz tells the majors, a man who has been known to have children tortured in front of their parents. (The line would later turn up in the president's address to the U.N.) 
Revisiting Ritter's argument a few days later in his Pentagon office, Wolfowitz seems genuinely puzzled by the notion that we need evidence of imminent danger to justify getting rid of Saddam. He has encountered this argument earlier -- from the State Department and the C.I.A., in fact, before President Bush stifled that particular line of internal debate by declaring Saddam an intolerable threat, end of story. By the conventions of American foreign policy, a pre-emptive strike against an uncertain threat is perhaps the most radical new security notion of the post-cold-war era. But Wolfowitz says he believes Sept. 11 has awakened us to a world where certainty is an expensive luxury.
"There's an awful lot we don't know, an awful lot that we may never know, and we've got to think differently about standards of proof here," Wolfowitz tells me. "In fact, there's no way you can prove that something's going to happen three years from now or six years from now. But these people have made absolutely clear what their intentions are, and we know a lot about their capabilities. I suppose I hadn't thought of it quite this way, but intentions and capabilities are the way you think about warfare. Proof beyond a reasonable doubt is the way you think about law enforcement. And I think we're much closer to being in a state of war than being in a judicial proceeding."
Wolfowitz is always careful to say that the president has not decided exactly what to do about Iraq and that he himself is not completely convinced yet that a military liberation of Baghdad is worth the risk. But in an administration that is not exactly a hotbed of Saddam coddlers, Wolfowitz has been on the case longer, more consistently, more persistently, than anyone. His tenacity is one reason that the internal debate has moved, astonishingly fast, from a theoretical possibility to questions of method and timing. So fast, in fact, that one argument some make for invading is that Bush has already gone too far out on the limb to back down.
In the first days after Sept. 11, when Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and others within the administration contended it was too early to put Iraq on the agenda -- that there was a war to win in Afghanistan first and that there was no evidence Iraq was complicit in the attacks on the Pentagon and the twin towers -- Wolfowitz argued that Iraq was at the heart of the threat. He suspected then that those who were saying "not yet" really meant "not ever." Now that the president has declared "regime change" the party line, Wolfowitz says, he takes his more skeptical colleagues at face value when they say "not yet." But, he adds, "it seems to me that people who want to say, 'I'm in favor of a regime change, but not now,' have a certain burden to answer the question, 'O.K., well, when?"'
The answer to that question remains a secret, if it has been decided at all. But on the way home from Fort Leavenworth at the end of July, we stopped at Scott Air Force Base, the military's main transportation dispatching hub, where Wolfowitz spent a couple of hours closeted with the men who, soon thereafter, began routing shipments of men and materiel to the gulf. Just in case.
In Washington, some people go straight to caricature, without getting much chance to be interesting or complicated. Paul Wolfowitz, who is interesting and complicated, has been cast since Sept. 11 in the role of zealot. Except for one humanizing incident when he was booed for mentioning the suffering of Palestinians at a pro-Israel rally, Wolfowitz has been summarily depicted as a hawk (The Economist preferred "velociraptor"), conservative ideologue, unilateralist, nemesis of Colin Powell's State Department and, sometimes, "Israel-centric." These epithets capture something of Wolfowitz's views and something of the company he keeps. His mentors have been hard-liners, many of his friends are devout Reaganites and the tracts he has signed when out of public office were written by those who now happily talk of a new American imperialism. One close friend of Wolfowitz's is Richard Perle, the combative defense analyst who might actually relish being called a velociraptor; he heads an adjunct group of advisers, the Defense Policy Board, that has been a vehicle for introducing controversial, even incendiary, viewpoints into the government tent. Perle, in fact, was offered the No. 3 position in the Defense Department, under secretary for policy, and after he declined the job, it went to Douglas Feith, a lawyer and firebrand who worked for Perle in the Reagan Defense Department. President Bush may employ many people who worked for his father, but this is decidedly not his father's Pentagon.
The shorthand version of Paul Wolfowitz, however, is inadequate in important ways. It completely misses his style, which relies on patient logic and respectful, soft-spoken engagement rather than on fire-breathing conviction. The stereotype also overlooks a critical distinction in his view of the world. Unlike many conservative gloom-mongers, he does not see the world plummeting toward an inevitable clash of civilizations. 
From a few months' immersion in the subject of Paul Wolfowitz, it seems to me he has brought at least three important things to the table where American policy is made, qualities that have made him, though he holds the rank of deputy, a factor in moving America this close to invading Iraq. One is something of a reputation as a man who sees trouble coming before others do, his long anxiety about Iraq being one example. 
The second thing he brings is an activist bent. It is forged partly of humanitarian impulse, a horror of standing by and watching bad things happen. He often talks about Kitty Genovese, the New York woman murdered in 1964 while dozens of neighbors watched from their apartment windows without lifting a phone to call the police. His inclination to act derives, too, from his analytical style, a residue, perhaps, of the mathematician he started out to be. In almost any discussion, he tends to be the one focusing on the most often overlooked variable in decision making, the cost of not acting. On Iraq, that has now been taken up as a White House mantra.
The third striking thing about Wolfowitz is an optimism about America's ability to build a better world. He has an almost missionary sense of America's role. In the current case, that means a vision of an Iraq not merely purged of cataclysmic weaponry, not merely a threat disarmed, but an Iraq that becomes a democratic cornerstone of an altogether new Middle East. Given the fatalism that prevails about this most flammable region of the world, that is an audacious optimism indeed. 
Wolfowitz's moralistic streak and the generally sunny view of the world's possibilities may explain the affinity between the born-again and resolutely unintellectual president and this man he calls "Wolfie," the Jewish son of academia who dabbles in six foreign languages and keeps Civil War histories at his bedside. A senior official who has watched the two men interact says that Wolfowitz and the president have reinforced each other in their faith in "a strategic transformation of the whole region."
If the interventionists are right, America can reasonably expect to be more secure, respected and very, very busy -- and much of the foreign-policy old guard will have been proved wrong. But if Wolfowitz and those with him are wrong, if Iraq comes down around their ears, America will be standing deep in the rubble, very alone.
If you spend much time with Wolfowitz, you will probably hear him tell the joke about Saddam Hussein's barber, an old one that dates from the years of Communist collapse. The story goes that every time Saddam shows up for a trim, his barber asks about Nicolae Ceaucescu, Romania's cult-of-personality tyrant, who has recently been executed in a popular uprising. Irritated, Saddam demands to know why the barber insists on bringing up this toppled dictator at each visit. "Because every time I do, the hair goes up on the back of your neck, and it's easier to cut it."
Wolfowitz loves the story because he feels if Romania can throw off a despot and muddle toward modernity, how much more promising is Iraq, with its bitterly oppressed but educated, energetic people and the ability to pump billions of dollars worth of crude oil a year? Look at the Iraqi Kurds, he says, who have created in their American-protected enclave in northern Iraq a comparatively open society "by Middle East standards," despite suffering the U.N. sanctions against the country.
Wolfowitz says he worries deeply about the risks of going into Iraq -- about disabling the small arsenal of Scud missiles before one possibly delivers poisons to Israel or the Saudi oil fields, about persuading Israel (as he personally helped do during the gulf war) not to join the war even if attacked, knowing that would tend to mobilize the Arab world against the United States, about the potential mess of urban warfare and civilian casualties. "I think the getting in is the dangerous part," he says.
He worries considerably less about the day after. 
"I don't think it's unreasonable to think that Iraq, properly managed -- and it's going to take a lot of attention, and the stakes are enormous, much higher than Afghanistan -- that it really could turn out to be, I hesitate to say it, the first Arab democracy, or at least the first one except for Lebanon's brief history," he says. "And even if it makes it only Romanian style, that's still such an advance over anywhere else in the Arab world."
This is a notion regarded with deep skepticism at the State Department, where Powell and others tend to see the aftermath of an invasion as a long, world-class headache administered by an American general. Not only within the State Department but elsewhere where foreign policy is discussed and formulated -- including the Capitol Hill offices of leading senators of both parties -- there reigns the view that Iraqi democracy is a utopian fantasy, that the country will fragment like a grenade into ethnic enclaves, that American garrisons will be targets for an eruption of Arab fury, that oil supplies will be endangered, that Americans lack the patience and generosity to midwife a free and pro-Western Iraq.
"This is a very risky operation at best," I was told, typically, by Henry Siegman, a Middle East scholar at the Council on Foreign Relations. "And the expectation that we will then be splendidly situated to resolve all the region's problems is wildly optimistic." 
Iraqi democracy, it should be said, is not the president's declared purpose of "regime change" in Iraq, which is to get rid of a very bad man with a fondness for terrorists and a hunger for weapons of hideous power. But it is, to many in the administration, including Wolfowitz, a large part of the enticement.
"You hear people mock it by saying that Iraq isn't ready for Jeffersonian democracy," Wolfowitz says, citing a line that Colin Powell has been known to use. "Well, Japan isn't Jeffersonian democracy, either. I think the more we are committed to influencing the outcome, the more chance there could be that it would be something quite significant for Iraq. And I think if it's significant for Iraq, it's going to cast a very large shadow, starting with Syria and Iran, but across the whole Arab world, I think."
The idea of Iraq as a launch pad of Arab democracy and a counterweight to Islamist extremism has gained some credence in Washington. As unromantic an expert as Dennis B. Ross, who ran the Middle East account for President Clinton, thinks Wolfowitz is right, that liberating Iraq would not only chasten despots and encourage democrats but that it could also unleash a joy in Iraq that would help alleviate the wider Arab anger against America. So does Henry Kissinger, whose cold realism has not often meshed with Wolfowitz's sense of the world.
A democratic Iraq, however, is sure to be unnerving to some of America's less-than-democratic allies in the region, including Saudi Arabia. Wolfowitz does not demonize the Saudi royal family, as a briefer did in July at one of Perle's Defense Policy Board meetings, but he seems more pleased than not that democracy in Iraq (and a free flow of competing Iraqi oil) makes the Saudis uneasy. He does not sound so sure that rocking the stability of tyrannies in the Arab world, even West-leaning tyrannies, is a bad thing.
In January, Bob Woodward, the investigative eminence for The Washington Post, and his colleague Dan Balz wrote a voluminous reconstruction of the decision making in the Bush administration during the weeks following Sept. 11. Most senior officials, including the president, Vice President Cheney and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, gave interviews for the series. Paul Wolfowitz, following the advice of the Rumsfeld press office, declined. That may have some bearing on the fact that he was one of the few officials to come across in the series as less than commanding. He is portrayed as single-mindedly obsessed by Iraq. At one point, Colin Powell and General Hugh Shelton, then the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, are described sharing an eye roll over Wolfowitz's war fever.
The narrative reaches a climax in the Laurel Lodge at Camp David, where the president gathered his war council the weekend following the attacks. During the meetings, Wolfowitz keeps pushing Iraq toward the front burner. He is so persistent, so seemingly deaf to the politics of the moment, that he even interrupts Rumsfeld to push his point. During a break, Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, on a signal from the president, takes Wolfowitz and Rumsfeld aside to ask that the Defense Department speak with one voice, which is a polite way of telling Wolfowitz to shut up.
The story has congealed into Washington wisdom, confirming the image of Wolfowitz as a man possessed.
Wolfowitz and two others who were in the room told me an alternative version of the day. It is not exactly incompatible (though both Rumsfeld and Wolfowitz say the Card scolding never happened, while Card, through a spokesman, confirms it), but it casts the day in a somewhat different light. They say that during a break in the meetings, the president listened in as Wolfowitz expounded on the Iraqi threat for a small group gathered around the fireplace of the rustic lodge. The president asked Wolfowitz why he hadn't made those points in the meeting and encouraged him to do so. Far from being an unwelcome voice, he was invited to speak up.
Some students of Washington intrigue have deduced from all this that Wolfowitz was set up. Rumsfeld brought him to Camp David specifically to make the Iraq case, knowing full well that the State Department, the C.I.A. and some of the brass would be opposed, knowing that a war with Iraq was more than the president could bite off in the first phase. The defense secretary wanted to define the ultimate problem as something bigger than Osama bin Laden and Afghanistan. So he pushed Wolfowitz forward. Wolfowitz would end up with the knives in him -- better a deputy than Rumsfeld himself -- but he would get the case for Iraq out where the president could consider it. And, sure enough, the president did define the terrorism problem early on as a global one including state sponsors. (Rumsfeld denies any such Machievellian design and says he doesn't even remember his deputy talking at the meeting.)
The larger point is that even as early as Sept. 15 of last year, the president was intrigued by what Wolfowitz was saying. By April, sooner than anyone expected, the president was telling journalists that "regime change" was his goal for Iraq. And when the president earlier this month assembled his war advisers in the Laurel Lodge, Iraq was on everybody's front burner. 
In Washington, no career-conscious official would ever suggest that he had influenced the president. It is essential to the mythology of executive leadership that presidents make up their own minds, and this administration is more hypersensitive than most to any suggestion that the president needs to be propped up by smart people. In any case, on the question of a more muscular American presence in the world, Wolfowitz is hardly a lone voice. His most important Washington patrons -- Cheney, whom he served in the first Bush Pentagon, and Rumsfeld -- have increasingly taken over the role of drum majors on Iraq. But the new worldview evolving in the Bush administration Washington -- interventionist, idealistic, less sensitive to alliance diplomacy -- is one created more at the Pentagon than the State Department and one to which Wolfowitz has brought intellectual weight. Morton Abramowitz, a veteran diplomat who has worked with, and occasionally sparred with, Wolfowitz, calls him "the pre-eminent house intellectual." 
Wolfowitz says that the new approach reflects the president's own instincts, which he maintains were evident even during the 2000 campaign to anyone who cared to look beyond the awkwardness of a foreign-policy novice -- and the scorn he heaped on nation building. Wolfowitz, who was one of the so-called Vulcans, the small cadre of thinkers who advised the campaign on defense and foreign policy, clearly finds the younger Bush more open to big, bold, activist ideas than his father.
"He's much more comfortable with speeches that lay out visions," Wolfowitz says. "I think he really believes in them. So there's that sort of Reaganism, if you want to call it that, in him, but a little more on the pragmatic side than Reagan when it comes to actual policy."
When the new Bush administration was coalescing, Colin Powell called Wolfowitz and offered him the job of ambassador to the United Nations. Given this administration's standoffish relationship with the U.N. and Wolfowitz's own wariness of multilateralism, that could be regarded as a trap rather than an honor, but Powell insists it was a sign of his great admiration for Wolfowitz's ability to think big and argue an issue to the ground. Wolfowitz has been similarly effusive in his praise of Powell, especially since news reports of their battles over Iraq.
And not only Iraq: the tensions between State and Defense are rooted in starkly different views of how America should deal with the world. The State Department tends to see the world as a set of problems to be handled, using the tools of professional diplomacy and striving for international consensus. This Defense Department tends to define leadership as more (in the Pentagon's favorite buzzword of the moment) "forward leaning," including a willingness to act unilaterally if need be and to employ muscle. Rumsfeld and Cheney, who have been friends since the Nixon administration, are visceral advocates of this more assertive view, but Wolfowitz is its theorist -- its Kissinger, as one admirer put it.
"What I think distinguishes him, and it's very alarming to some people, is that there is this spirit in Washington that foreign policy consists of managing problems," said Charles H. Fairbanks, a Johns Hopkins political scientist who has known Wolfowitz since college. "Paul Wolfowitz is really free of that tendency."
In 1992, in what would turn out to be the last year of the first Bush administration, Wolfowitz, then under secretary for policy in Cheney's Defense Department, presided over the writing of a new "Defense Planning Guidance," a broad directive to military leaders on what to prepare for. An early draft proposed that with the demise of the Soviet Union the United States doctrine should be to assure that no new superpower arose to rival America's benign domination of the globe. The U.S. would defend its unique status both by being militarily powerful beyond challenge and by being such a constructive force that no one would want to challenge us. We would participate in coalitions, but they would be "ad hoc." The U.S. would be "postured to act independently when collective action cannot be orchestrated." The guidance envisioned pre-emptive attacks against states bent on acquiring nuclear, biological or chemical weapons. It was accompanied by illustrative scenarios of hypothetical wars for which the military should be prepared. One of them was another war against Iraq, where Saddam had already rebounded from his gulf-war defeat and was busily crushing domestic unrest.
After the draft was leaked to The New York Times and was roundly denounced as bellicose and unilateralist, the language was softened. But a number of years later, in an essay published in The National Interest, Wolfowitz contended that most Americans had come around to favoring the kind of Pax Americana envisioned in that document. He argued that American interventions in the Balkans and elsewhere had demonstrated a growing consensus for an American leadership, which entailed "demonstrating that your friends will be protected and taken care of, that your enemies will be punished and that those who refuse to support you will live to regret having done so."
That now seems to have become the Bush doctrine, sprung from Sept. 11, and Iraq stands to be its most serious test. The evidence suggests that the world consensus is somewhat shakier than Wolfowitz predicted. Allied support is confined to the loyal Tony Blair, who may pay a high price at home for it; the American public is supportive, but in no hurry; the president's father's inner circle is sounding cautions.
Wolfowitz regards all of this as little different from the hand-wringing before Desert Storm or before the intervention in Bosnia. "If we get to the point where we're talking about reconstructing a post-Saddam Iraq, I think we'll have an awful lot that we agree on," he says. "And a lot of the differences of today, which revolve around how you get there, will seem like ancient worries."
In its early days, the Bush administration set in motion a review of Iraq policy, but it dragged on without much direction, so that by Sept. 11 the Bush policy on Iraq was essentially the one inherited from the Clinton administration. At the C.I.A., the holdover director, George J. Tenet, was pushing the idea of "stateless" terrorism, which implied less, not more, emphasis on the role of state patrons. At State, Colin Powell seized on an idea that had been gestating in the Clinton administration -- smart sanctions" -- that would have eased restrictions on food and medicine sales to Iraq but would have clamped down hard on smuggling of equipment for Saddam's rearmament. There was general agreement within the administration that sanctions were an abject failure, doing little to impede Saddam's military ambitions while creating a P.R. nightmare of hungry children. It is not clear that anybody had much faith that sanctions could be fixed, but smart sanctions created the impression of doing something. Iraq was, frankly, nobody's high priority -- not Rumsfeld, who was preoccupied with missile defense; not Cheney, who was consumed by the domestic agenda; not Condoleezza Rice or Powell, who had Russia and China to think about. When the Sept. 11 terrorists struck, Wolfowitz was the first into this vacuum. 
Friends of Wolfowitz's say his initial reaction was that Iraq was probably a party to the attacks. He had already studied the work of Laurie Mylroie, an investigator who has labored to connect Iraq to earlier terrorist attacks, including the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center, and now an ardent student of clues connecting Saddam to Sept. 11. The Clinton administration treated Mylroie as, in her words, "a nut case," but Wolfowitz -- then spending the Clinton years as dean of the prestigious School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins -- listened to her 90-minute briefing on the evidence trail and wrote a sympathetic blurb for her book blaming Iraq for the first trade-center attack. After Sept. 11, he encouraged his friend R. James Woolsey, the former C.I.A. director, to visit England as a consultant to a Justice Department mission and sniff out evidence of Iraqi connections. Woolsey contends that evidence connecting Iraq with terrorist assaults on America, while circumstantial, is "about as clear as these things get." Few others go that far, Wolfowitz included. He can describe the evidence in detail, the clandestine meetings between Iraqi intelligence and figures who may have been Al Qaeda operatives, and says he finds it intriguing but not conclusive. 
But the more general connection between Saddam and terrorists -- his hosting of the murderous and recently deceased Abu Nidal, his subsidies for Palestinian suicide bombers -- is enough, in Wolfowitz's view, to make their future collaboration against America almost a given. While Iraq might arm a missile or a bomber with one of those horrible weapons, Wolfowitz says, the more likely delivery system is via the terrorist international. And that, too, is an underlying assumption in the administration's case for war.
Throughout his career, Wolfowitz has managed to push hard against the prevailing view while avoiding the kind of confrontation that gets you marked as not a team player. But several people who know Wolfowitz say he seemed galvanized by Sept. 11 into a bet-your-career sense of purpose.I think Paul tended to be Mr. Interagency Stealth in the past, and now he's Mr. Open Warfare," says Stephen Sestanovich, a Russia expert who once worked for Wolfowitz as a policy planner. "Right after Sept. 11, the idea that Iraq was where we had to go next was the lunacy that had to be fought back. Now, in this town, there's a near consensus about it. They've accepted the Wolfowitz goal, and now they're just haggling about how it's to be done. That was a result that could only be achieved by open warfare."
A result of his being so out front, of course, is that along with the considerably higher stakes of human life and strategic order, one thing riding on the future of Iraq is Wolfowitz's future. If, as some of his friends believe, Wolfowitz, who is 58, would like to ascend to a cabinet job -- Rumsfeld would be 72 at the start of a second Bush term; Powell has dropped hints of being a one-termer; and a shuffle could land him as national security adviser or C.I.A. director -- his prospects are paradoxically wedded to those of Saddam Hussein.
Wolfowitz grew up in a household in which Hitler and Stalin were not abstractions. His father, a mathematics professor at Cornell and an innovator in the field of statistics, was a Polish Jew who emigrated from Russian-held Warsaw in 1920. He often told his children how lucky they were to have escaped the totalitarian horrors of Europe for the benign security of America. There were many Wolfowitzes consumed in the Holocaust, and according to Wolfowitz's sister, Laura, the world's perils and America's moral responsibility were constant topics at their dinner table.
As a teenager, Wolfowitz was a lonely John F. Kennedy Democrat in his conservative Ithaca, N.Y., high school. He says the only time he ever marched in a demonstration was when he was 19, at Martin Luther King Jr.'s civil rights spectacular in Washington. He remains, by his own description, a "bleeding heart" on social issues and a civil libertarian. The day I watched him under questioning from those eager majors at Fort Leavenworth, he argued against the use of torture in interrogating terror suspects and against the deployment of the military in domestic crises.
But his sense of America's large place in the world, like his father's, has always hewed close to that of the late Senator Henry M. Jackson, the pioneering Democratic hawk nicknamed Scoop, who believed in an American obligation to support democracies and in the willingness to use military force sometimes to accomplish that. (Jackson was also Richard Perle's mentor.) Wolfowitz, who switched parties during the Reagan administration, now describes himself as "a Scoop Jackson Republican."
Wolfowitz followed his father into mathematics, taking courses from him at Cornell, shifted to chemistry and "probably would have ended up a very unhappy biochemist" if not for the intervention of Allan Bloom, the charismatic political philosopher, who was a resident scholar in the elite student dormitory where Wolfowitz lived. Bloom emboldened Wolfowitz to follow his childhood fascination with world affairs, to the enormous dismay of his father, who regarded political science as roughly equivalent to astrology.
Wolfowitz earned his doctorate at the University of Chicago, a seedbed of what is now called neoconservative thinking in economics, political science and strategic studies. His mentor there was Albert Wohlstetter, perhaps the most influential thinker about military strategems of the nuclear age and godfather of the anti-detente school during the cold war.
Student deferments kept him out of the military draft during the Vietnam War, and he looks back on that war with a kind of scholarly detachment that is in striking contrast to, say, Colin Powell, who served two tours there and regards Vietnam as the paradigm of good intentions gone wrong. Wolfowitz was sympathetic to the war and only later came around to the view that it was "a very costly overreach." At the same time, he wonders if the American role in Vietnam might have given anti-Communist forces in Asia time to gather strength. "We know the costs of Vietnam," he says. "They were horrendous." And then he adds a quintessentially Wolfowitz kicker: "But we don't know what that part of the world would have looked like today if it hadn't been." 
After three years teaching political science at Yale, Wolfowitz was recruited through Wohlstetter's profuse grapevine to work in Washington at the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. In the waning days of the Nixon administration, the agency was one link in a network of conservative insurgents. Their target was the diplomacy of patient coexistence with the Soviet Union. Their ringleader was Perle, operating out of Scoop Jackson's office. Their Antichrist was Kissinger, the mastermind of detente. The insurgent view was that the Soviet Union should be not simply contained but challenged on all fronts. They argued that American intelligence agencies had played down the aggressive designs and military advances of the Soviet Union to conform to the White House drive for arms control.
In the waning days of the Ford administration, the C.I.A. (director: George H.W. Bush) sought to appease the hard-liners by commissioning "Team B," a group of kibitzers with license to second-guess the intelligence reports on the Soviet Union. Wolfowitz was one of the 10 members. The report they produced was more than Bush bargained for. It painted the Soviet Union as an expansionist boogeyman. In hindsight, much of the Team B report was worst-case hyperbole; it credited the Soviet Union with developing superweapons it never had and ignored the handicaps of a failing Soviet economy. But Team B became a political bludgeon to batter the proponents of arms control and drive up American military spending. Wolfowitz, who contributed a thoughtful and unhysterical chapter on the importance of intermediate-range missiles to the Soviet strategy, says he never bought Team B's alarmist contention that the Soviet Union believed it could fight and win a nuclear war. But he says the report was a useful guerrilla attack on conventional thinking, including the tendency of intelligence agencies to assume that rival countries think the same way we do.
It was a similar Team B-style exercise that led to his current job. Rumsfeld was impressed by Wolfowitz's work for him on a commission set up by Congressional hawks in 1998 to prod the Clinton administration toward deploying missile defense. (Rumsfeld is a missile-defense devotee; Wolfowitz somewhat less so, since he worries it would not stop low-flying cruise missiles.)
Wolfowitz abandoned the Yale tenure track and threw himself into the practice of national security, moving back and forth between Defense and State. His earliest jobs were in the wonkish realm of policy analysis -- gazing at the horizon. He had a knack for luring bright, opinionated thinkers, some of whom rank high in the current administration. Cheney's chief of staff, I. Lewis Libby, was captivated by Wolfowitz's political science course at Yale and worked for him at the in-house think tanks in both the State and Defense Departments. Condoleezza Rice's deputy, Stephen J. Hadley, who is chairman of an influential committee of cabinet deputies that meets several times a week on national-security issues, worked for Wolfowitz in the Cheney Defense Department and was a fellow Vulcan in the campaign. 
Contrary to his ideologue image, Wolfowitz is described by colleagues as open to new ideas and encouraging of dissent. Dennis Ross went to work for Wolfowitz shortly after writing a paper trashing the work of Team B. "What I always found in him that separated him from everybody else on that side of the political spectrum is not that he didn't have predispositions, but that he was much more open, much more intellectually open, to different kinds of interpretations," Ross says. Charles Fairbanks, who also worked for Wolfowitz in the policy-planning office of the State Department, recalls him as "sort of on the one hand, on the other hand on most issues," but ardent on the subject of certain regimes he regarded as outside the norms of civilized behavior, including the radical Baath party of Iraq and Muammar el-Qaddafi's Libya. "I once presented talking points on Libya, which I considered very tough. He said: 'You don't understand. I really want to destroy Qaddafi, not just constrain him."'
His proteges cite several examples of Wolfowitz's homing in on subjects before they grew into major issues, often when they were politically inconvenient. For example, as the Soviet empire was unraveling and the first President Bush was clinging to the waning figure of Mikhail Gorbachev, Wolfowitz and his boss, Cheney, believed that Boris N. Yeltsin represented a better prospect of a real end to the cold war. 
And then there is Iraq. When he arrived at the Pentagon in the aftermath of the 1973 Yom Kippur War and the Arab oil embargo, Wolfowitz was surprised to find that the Persian Gulf region was scarcely on their minds.
"There was a fairly big NATO office," he recalls, "and a modest size East Asian one and then a cats-and-dogs office. I said, 'Where's the Persian Gulf office?' 'Oh, we don't plan forces for the Persian Gulf.' This was 1977. And one of the unspoken reasons, I think, was Vietnam. But one of the spoken reasons was, the shah takes care of the Persian Gulf for us. And I said, 'Well, that's a little shortsighted."'
So he assembled a small group, including Dennis Ross, and they wrote a secret assessment of threats. Much of the report was about possible Soviet moves into the region, but planted in the midst of this is a bright red flag about Iraq. Examining Iraq's outsize military and unresolved territorial claims, the report talked about possible attacks on Kuwait or Saudi Arabia, which would give Iraq control of the West's oil lifeline. The U.S. was seen as woefully unprepared to respond. The report recommended beefing up forces to provide "a credible and visible balance to Iraq's local power."
The report was not well received by the Carter administration, which was then busy courting Iraq as an offset to the new revolutionary regime in Iran. But Wolfowitz persisted, and one result was a decision to permanently pre-position cargo ships in the gulf region loaded with tanks, artillery and ammunition. By the time of the gulf war, some of the equipment was rusty, but as Lewis Libby, Cheney's chief of staff, points out, it was the first heavy weaponry to hit the ground against Saddam's army. 
When Iraq swooped into Kuwait in 1990, Wolfowitz was Cheney's under secretary for policy. He was the strongest advocate for dispatching warships early as a sign of American resolve, and his was a persistent voice for putting American troops on the ground. After Iraq was driven out of Kuwait, Wolfowitz argued unsuccessfully that America should support the Kurds in the north and Shiites in the south in their attempts to finish off Saddam.
There is an entertaining echo of his frustration in "Ravelstein," Saul Bellow's roman a clef about Wolfowitz's college guru, Allan Bloom. In the novel, Wolfowitz has a walk-on part as a former student who has made it big in Washington and periodically delights his old tutor by phoning in tidbits of inside dope. Professor Bloom/Ravelstein returns from one such phone call during the gulf war to inform his friends: "Colin Powell and Baker have advised the president not to send the troops all the way to Baghdad. Bush will announce it tomorrow. They're afraid of a few casualties."
Neither Wolfowitz nor anyone else in the administration was calling for sending American troops to Baghdad, since that far exceeded their mandate from Congress and the United Nations to liberate Kuwait. But Wolfowitz was dismayed by the decision to quickly extricate American troops and let the situation in Iraq run its course. When Clinton, who inherited the aftermath of the war, continued to stand by as Saddam suppressed the Kurds, Wolfowitz wrote a blistering op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal, calling it "Clinton's Bay of Pigs" -- a rebuke he could as aptly have applied to the first President Bush. In language unusually fierce for Wolfowitz, he derided "our passive containment policy and our inept covert operations" and clearly implied that ousting Saddam should be American policy without quite saying it. The following year he was explicitly proposing "the military option," unilateral if necessary, to rid the world of Saddam.
Until America came directly under attack last year, Wolfowitz says, he was still thinking in terms of providing arms, training and air support for indigenous rebels, not sending in American divisions.
"I certainly would not then have favored us sending occupying forces into Iraq," he says. "But we might have overthrown a terrible regime. It might have worked out well. It could hardly be worse than what we've had for the last 10 years. And if it had been a mess, we could've said, O.K., well, we gave them their chance.
"In contrast, we're at a point now, I think, that if Iraq is liberated, our responsibility for it is going to be so large that our responsibility for the outcome -- and our stake in the outcome -- is going to be much larger."
Wolfowitz's pentagon jobs under various presidents persuaded him that Iraq was chronic trouble. His vision of Iraq as an opportunity, though, evolved from his work in the State Department.
Two years into the Reagan administration, Wolfowitz asked Secretary of State George P. Shultz to move him from the world of theory into the world of practice, as assistant secretary of state for East Asia. Shultz says he hesitated -- Wolfowitz was known for his brains, not his management skills -- but agreed. Wolfowitz quickly found himself riding shotgun on another campaign against the geopolitics of Henry Kissinger, this time on how to deal with China. Shultz and Wolfowitz agreed that Kissinger put too much value on China as a counterbalance to the Soviet Union, with the result that the U.S. bent over backward to preserve "the relationship" by making concessions on issues like Taiwan. The new team argued, in essence, that it was possible to be a hard-liner on the Soviet Union without pandering to China. Once China was downsized as a factor in the cold war, the administration felt freer to turn more attention to Japan, first, but also to the emerging Asian democracies of South Korea and Taiwan. 
For his next act, Wolfowitz applied to be ambassador to Indonesia, the country with the world's largest Muslim population and a place that his wife and college sweetheart, Clare, had chosen as the focus of her anthropological studies. (They are now separated, but she speaks of him with intense admiration.) He threw himself into the public diplomacy, learning the language well enough to take questions at public gatherings and even entering a cooking contest sponsored by a women's magazine. (He won third place for a dish he dubbed Madame Mao's Chicken.) He especially prides himself on a public speech that called on the Indonesian strongman, Suharto, to introduce political openness -- a message he diplomatically saved for the end of his tour as ambassador but one that still infuriated Suharto.
Wolfowitz has talked for years about the incubation of Asian democracies and the more recent currents of freedom in Indonesia as reason to hope for something similar in the Islamic Mideast. Since Sept. 11, this has been a favorite theme in his speeches.
Wolfowitz was still a young Pentagon wonk when President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt braved the wrath of the Arab world to visit Jerusalem and deliver a speech of peace to the Israeli Parliament. To an American Jew raised with a high sense of individual moral obligation, this was such an admirable piece of statesmanship that Wolfowitz bought Arabic language tapes and studied them in his car on his commute to the Pentagon so that he could appreciate the valor of Sadat's speech in the original.
You hear from some of Wolfowitz's critics, always off the record, that Israel exercises a powerful gravitational pull on the man. They may not know that as a teenager he spent his father's sabbatical semester in Israel or that his sister is married to an Israeli, but they certainly know that he is friendly with Israel's generals and diplomats and that he is something of a hero to the heavily Jewish neoconservative movement. Those who know him well say this -- leaving aside the offensive suggestion of dual loyalty -- is looking at Wolfowitz through the wrong end of the telescope. As the Sadat story illustrates, he has generally been less excited by the security of Israel than by the promise of a more moderate Islam.
"As a moral man, he might have found Israel the heart of the Middle East story," Stephen Sestanovich says. "But as a policy maker, Turkey and the gulf and Egypt didn't loom any less large for him."
After Sept. 11, Wolfowitz supported the successful effort to include the localized killers of Hamas and Hezbollah on America's global terror list and was part of a large administration chorus (basically, everyone except the State Department) that argued for bypassing Yasir Arafat. But he has not hesitated to tell Israel when American interests trumped theirs. He supported selling sophisticated surveillance aircraft to Saudi Arabia, despite intense Israeli lobbying against the sale -- and those Awacs planes proved invaluable in the gulf war. Benjamin Netanyahu, the right-wing former prime minister, still complains that Israel was wrong to succumb to Wolfowitz's diplomacy during the gulf war, when he persuaded Israel to hold its fire as Iraqi Scuds were landing. Netanyahu, who generally admires Wolfowitz, thinks this forbearance emboldened his country's enemies. If there is a new war, persuading Ariel Sharon to show similar forbearance may be more difficult, but Wolfowitz will be foremost among those arguing the case.
Alongside the conference table where we did our talking, Wolfowitz has mounted a painting that, from across the room, resembles a tranquil Maryland landscape. On closer inspection, the dark foreground is a river of corpses. Wolfowitz, a Civil War buff, had it copied from a painting called "The Bloody Lane," a rendering of the deadliest battle in American history, Antietam, which shattered the momentum of the South and emboldened Lincoln to issue the Emancipation Proclamation. It seems like sobering company for a man who deals in the gruesome cost-benefit analysis of warfare.
Wolfowitz says that he agonizes a good deal over the dangers of dispatching Americans to war, that he respects the traditional conservatism of men in uniform who know the Antietams of the globe firsthand. Interventions that are only indirectly about American interests, like Somalia, he says, should be "as close to risk-free as possible," and, he suggests, "maybe somewhere along the way we should have a volunteer force that is specifically volunteering for missions other than defending the country." The opposite of the Peace Corps, you might say.
Wars that defend our safety may command a higher price. What price? Would the danger posed by a nuclear-armed Saddam be worth, say, the lives of thousands of American soldiers, if that is what the experts estimated it would take to disarm him by force?
Wolfowitz posed the question himself and answered no. Weapons of mass destruction would not be enough to justify the deaths of thousands of Americans. And in any case, thousands killed would mean the mission had gone badly wrong.
But Wolfowitz was not letting the discussion end there. Later, he e-mailed me an afterthought about that grisly calculus of going to war against Iraq.
"So if that's what you estimate the costs of action to be, then you have to have something more on the other side of the ledger than just the possession of weapons of mass destruction," he wrote. Whether that "something more" that would justify that greater sacrifice meant evidence that Iraq was on the verge of using its weapons, or the prospect of establishing Iraq as an outpost of democracy, or a smoking gun tying Iraq to Sept. 11, he did not specify. "In the end, it has to come down to a careful weighing of things we can't know with precision, the costs of action versus the costs of inaction, the costs of action now versus the costs of action later." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Wolfowitz in his Pentagon office. Caricatures of him miss his style: soft-spoken engagement, not fire-breathing conviction (Barbel Schmidt); Wolfowitz with the president at the Pentagone days after the terrorist attacks. (Paul J. Richards/Agence France: Presse.); At the Saudi Arabia command center during the gulf war, Wolfowitz, right, with, to his left, Schwartzkopf, Cheney and Powell.; Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and Wolfowitz discusssing the war in Afghanistan in Rumsfeld's office last October. (David Hume. Kennerly/Corbis Sygma) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); AIR FORCES (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); POLITICS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (55%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); ERIC K SHINSEKI (73%) KELLER, BILL; WOLFOWITZ, PAUL D (DEPUTY SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) KANSAS, USA (90%); INDIAN OCEAN (75%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (56%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



620 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 3Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
For Lovers of Risk, There's Iraqi Government Debt

BYLINE:  By CONRAD DE AENLLE 

 BODY:
FEW investments are expected to benefit from an attack on Iraq, but one obscure asset may be a winner if Saddam Hussein and his government are toppled. That, at least, is the hope of those who hold Iraqi debt.
 Offshore mutual funds that concentrate on emerging-markets debt hold Iraqi debt with a face value of roughly $1.2 billion, most of which started as loans from French and Arab banks before 1990. The debt seldom changes hands, and when it does it is shuffled among a few specialist institutions and fetches around 10 cents on the dollar. 
 Julian Adams, manager of the Aberdeen Exotic Debt fund, which holds Iraqi debt with a face value of about $30 million, said he and the Bush administration share a goal, if for different reasons. "Don't forget we're on the same side," said Mr. Adams, who is based in London. " 'Regime change' is exactly what we want." 
Mr. Adams says that if Mr. Hussein is removed from power, economic sanctions imposed on Iraq after the invasion of Kuwait in 1990 are likely to be lifted, ultimately pushing up the debt's value. The sanctions have greatly curtailed Iraqi oil sales. 
"It's by far the best exotic credit," Mr. Adams said, using a term for debt issued by smaller developing countries that is traded infrequently on world markets. "Essentially, once sanctions get lifted, several things happen. They will get loads of Western aid to rebuild the economy" and then "they will work out the debt soon after."
"As most emerging-debt workouts are done at least at 25 cents on the dollar," he added, "the upside to this is huge." A settlement of 25 cents on the dollar would mean a fivefold increase in value after repayment of accumulated interest, he said.
Mr. Adams has placed close to one-fourth of the fund's assets in Iraqi debt. More mainstream funds would never hold so much of a speculative investment, but several funds own it in more modest amounts.
"Iraq certainly has big upside because there are a lot of frozen assets offshore," said one fund manager who specializes in emerging-markets debt. "Restructuring would be expected to happen reasonably fast. Iraq needs to normalize relations with creditors to get cash up front. The debt is a good investment." The manager, who holds Iraqi debt in an offshore mutual fund and in several portfolios for institutional clients, spoke on the condition that neither he nor his firm be identified.
The debt will probably benefit from new investor interest, he added, if a United States embargo is lifted and American institutions are allowed to own it. Foreign mutual funds are exempt from the embargo, and American authorities typically grant dispensations that allow small investors in the United States to buy the funds.
Holders of exotic debt have benefited from sweeping political change in the past -- for example, after the downfall of Slobodan Milosevic in Serbia in 2000.
"When Milosevic was booted out, Serbian debt went from 7.5 to 24 in nine months," Mr. Adams recalled, saying he sold his holding after the price jump. "Iraq would do even better." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FOREIGN LENDING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BONDS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%) GOVERNMENT BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ABERDEEN EXOTIC DEBT FUND 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%) DE AENLLE, CONRAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



621 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Europe Has One Voice. And Another and Another.

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY GARTON ASH; Timothy Garton Ash is the author, most recently, of "History of the Present: Essays, Sketches and Dispatches from Europe in the 1990's."

DATELINE: OXFORD, England 

 BODY:
WHAT is Europe's position on Iraq? The answer is:
 A) nobody knows, and 
 B) there isn't one.
"Unfair!" the leaders of the European Union will cry. Hasn't the European Union's Mr. Foreign Policy, Javier Solana, just been in Washington to coordinate Europe's position with the vice president and the national security adviser? Hasn't the union's external relations commissioner, Chris Patten, spoken eloquently on the subject? Didn't the union's foreign ministers, meeting three weeks ago in Hamlet's town of Elsinore, make a statement calling for United Nations inspectors to be allowed back in? 
Yes. But who is listening? Meanwhile, the larger countries of Europe all want to speak for themselves.
France's president, Jacques Chirac, has called for a United Nations ultimatum to Iraq, but in a form that dismays the Bush administration. It would omit authorization of the use of force, reserving that question for a second resolution to be considered later. And if Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, wins his election in Germany today, it may partly be because he has taken a position even more distant from America's: he has told the crowds that he will not "click his heels" to Washington and let peaceloving Germany participate in an American-led war against Iraq. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain has been working closely with Washington in preparation for military action against Saddam Hussein.
What we hear are three different voices from the three leading powers of Europe. Many positions, and therefore none. Some Americans may be surprised, since recent commentaries have portrayed an increasingly clear divide between Europe and the United States. Others may think of "Europe" as the nations on the Continent, with Britain as something quite different, but it would be hard to imagine a serious European foreign and security policy without Britain.
In the last decade, the Europeans are supposed to have grown closer and learned from their confusion during the Persian Gulf war in 1991 and over Bosnia. The European Community has become a European Union, which claims to have a "Common Foreign and Security Policy," agreed on by the foreign ministers and heads of government of its 15 member states, and a "High Representative," Mr. Solana, to carry it out. 
Europe, we are assured, is increasingly speaking with one voice.
So why the cacophony? "The European Union is 15 individual states," Mr. Patten said in an interview. "Foreign policy goes right to the heart of what it means to be a sovereign state. The wonder is that we manage to develop common positions on as many issues as we do."
There are some solid achievements of European policy. Stabilizing and reconstructing the Balkans is now largely Europe's work. The world has Mr. Solana and Mr. Patten -- and George Robertson of NATO -- to thank for the fact that it doesn't have a crisis in Macedonia as well as in Iraq. Europe also contributes far more aid to poor countries than the United States does.
But when it comes to the prospect of armed confrontation, Europe splits and splutters.
Robert Kagan has argued, in an article in the American journal Policy Review that caused much discussion in Europe this summer, that this Hamlet-like approach reflects a deep transatlantic difference in the attitude to power. Europe, he said, is Kantian, multilateralist, legalistic and driven by economics; America is Hobbesian, unilateralist, realist and driven by national interest. There is some truth in what Mr. Kagan acknowledges to be a deliberate caricature. 
EUROPEAN publics have been increasingly reluctant to spend money on the military since the end of the cold war. If you ask what it means to be European today, one of the most prevalent answers still goes something like this: to move beyond the power politics of sovereign, competing, bellicose nation-states that brought Europe to ruins in 1945.
But quite as important is the fact that there really is no single, common European attitude. "Americans are from Mars and Europeans are from Venus," writes Mr. Kagan. But actually, the British are quite martial and the French are quite Martian. Certainly over the period from the end of the Vietnam War until the Sept. 11 attacks, the British have been more ready to see their soldiers come back in body bags than Americans have been. The French still have the remains of a post-revolutionary universalist project, outdone only by the American one.
Britain and France are deeply conscious of being former world powers. Both have their own interests and traditional alignments in many parts of the world, including the Middle East. Both are desperate to keep their places at the top table of world politics. This means articulating, especially for domestic consumption, a distinctively French or British position, but also trying not to lose out with Washington.
Germany is gradually redefining itself as a "normal" nation-state. "Normal" here translates as more like France and Britain. Over Iraq, and in the heat of the election, Chancellor Schroder talked of "a German way" in foreign policy -- a phrase that grates on the ears of anyone who recalls the old German Sonderweg, or "special way." His justice minister even reportedly compared President Bush's methods to those of Hitler. 
Meanwhile, Italy and Spain, whose conservative governments are now reflexively pro-American on many matters, are keen to insist that Europe's big three is actually a big five.
What's more, by 2005 the European Union will contain not 15 but probably 25 member states. Most central and east European candidate states are small, but have special interests in two crucial regions: the Balkans and the former Soviet Union. Poland is a big country, the Spain of central Europe, and aspires to make Europe's big five a big six.
European policy may now be better coordinated, but there will be a lot more to coordinate. For the next few years, at least, the centrifugal and centripetal tendencies will probably balance each other out.
WHAT could bring Europe closer to speaking with one voice? Perhaps a clear and common enemy. After all, the Soviet Union was the great negative external integrator of Western Europe for 40 years. But who is there now? For some Europeans, especially on the left, the lead candidate is now the United States. If you ask "Why do we need a European superpower?" they reply, "to counterbalance the overmighty and cowboy-like U.S."
This is a real motive. But it comes up against several obstacles. For a start, as we are again seeing over Iraq, Britain will never unambiguously choose Europe against America. Then there are Spain and Italy, at least under their current governments, and pro-American Poland.
In fact, every European country is torn between worry about the United States and fascination with it. 
Anyway, what sense does it make to define yourself against the country with which -- for all the differences -- you have so many values in common? There is a fine dialectical answer: Europe must be strong enough to stand up to America so it can work more closely with America. But that subtle logic seems unlikely to rally and weld together the electorates of 25 very different consumer democracies.
The ever closer cooperation of these old and new democracies has made Europe a better place than it has ever been in its long history -- peaceful, increasingly prosperous and free, its countries and regions deeply intermeshed, yet still richly diverse. Today's Europe is in many ways a super place, but not a superpower.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with Germany's chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, left, and France's president, Jacques Chirac, in Canada in June. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); DESERT STORM (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (64%) ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: JAVIER SOLANA (77%); JACQUES CHIRAC (71%); GERHARD SCHRODER (65%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); TONY BLAIR (50%) GARTON ASH, TIMOTHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (93%); CANADA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); GULF STATES (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; GERMANY; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



622 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: The World: Losing Control; 
Venezuela Approaches the Brink

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
AFTER President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela was removed from power for two days last April, the United States immediately blamed the ousted leader, in apparent support of his adversaries. But today, with Mr. Chavez precariously holding on to his office, the Bush administration has said it does events to repeat themselves -- even as the climate here grows nastier and more uncertain. 
 The United States government would oppose any effort to meddle by "illegal and/or violent actions" with the "constitutional and democratically elected government of Venezuela," the United States Embassy in Caracas said in a statement last week. 
 A big reason for the change of heart is oil. Venezuela was the fourth-largest exporter of oil to the United States over the past six months, selling an average of 1.1 million barrels of crude per day. That's roughly 7 percent of American consumption, and its reliability is in doubt as the prospect of war in the Middle East grows. 
But there is a real question of whether the United States, or anyone else, can manage the explosion that many here think may be coming.
Mr. Chavez's supporters are mainly among the 80 percent of Venezuelans who live in poverty, most of them, like Mr. Chavez, of mixed-race heritage. Many see him as their only hope for a better life. The predominantly white middle and upper classes, on the other hand, are intent on driving Mr. Chavez, whom they regard at a left-wing demagogue, out of office. 
Nobody appears to be doing anything to forestall the train wreck toward which the country is speeding. 
It wasn't always like this. After Venezuela's last dictator, Marcos Perez Jimenez, fell in 1958, the country remade itself. In the 1960's and '70's, Venezuela's leaders used a mix of democratic reforms and spending on social programs, financed by oil, to create a degree of political stability.
Insurgents took advantage of a 1969 amnesty, which contrasted with the torture and assassinations other Latin governments used.
"The country became civilized throughout much of those years," recalled Teodoro Petkoff, a former rebel who put down his arms, was elected to Congress and later served as planning minister. "Back then, we understood debate, and we knew that not agreeing on something did not have to mean falling into threats."
By the early 1980's, per capita income had risen to nearly $5,000 and Venezuelans dreamed of becoming the first Latin country to join the industrialized world. But those hopes were dashed by a period of economic mismanagement and corruption that culminated two years ago in the rejection at the polls of the traditional parties, in favor of the populist movement led by Mr. Chavez, who ran as a champion of the poor, both in Venezuela and elsewhere.
His opponents are a loose group of leading businessmen, labor leaders and politicians; they see Mr. Chavez as an autocrat whose economic policies have hurt business and a would-be dictator whose dalliances with Saddam Hussein and Fidel Castro have angered Washington. 
They charge Mr. Chavez with responsibility for the deaths of 17 protesters in April during huge anti-government demonstrations in downtown Caracas. The attorney general's office and the human rights ombudsman's office, both close to the president, have shown little interest in conducting an impartial investigation. 
Mr. Chavez has moderated his tone since then, but his adversaries remain committed to his removal, with one foe going so far last week as to publish a newspaper ad urging a military rebellion.
A delegation from the Organization of American States, the Carter Center and the United Nations met recently with Mr. Chavez and his opponents, trying to arrange talks. Both sides welcomed the visitors, but neither side appears interested in compromise.
In fact, opposition leaders now say the only issue worth negotiating is the manner of Mr. Chavez's removal. Some opponents, with an eye on another possible coup attempt, talk of invoking the Constitution's Article 350, which allows Venezuelans to "not recognize" a government that is "contrary to the values, principles and democratic guarantees" of their country. And it is equally clear that Mr. Chavez would still swamp any opponent in an election.
MANY of the president's supporters also regard efforts to remove him as undemocratic -- what Nicolas Maduro, a Chavez loyalist in the National Assembly, called "the institutional coup approach." 
The danger now is that the country's leaders, Mr. Chavez included, are underestimating each other as the tension builds, giving each side little reason to talk to the other. 
"It is starting to look very much like what led to the Spanish Civil War," said Eduardo Fernandez, a former general secretary of the opposition Copei party. "We are tempting the devil."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soldiers near Caracas, Venezuela, after a march to protest President Hugo Chavez. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (55%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%) CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); FORERO, JUAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



623 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
On North Korea, Japan Takes the Lead

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
SINCE the two countries became allies after World War II, Japan has followed the United States obligingly on virtually every matter of international security that concerns them. Ensuring economic growth was always the full-time mission of Japan's leaders, and a snug spot under the United States' diplomatic and military umbrella almost always seemed like a smart place to pursue this goal.
 That is, until last week, when Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan held a summit meeting with North Korea, taking a major step toward normalization of relations with a charter member of President George Bush's "axis of evil." Suddenly, Japan seems more willing than ever to plot its own diplomatic course. 
 Both the United States and Japan have taken pains to play down any divergence over North Korea. But the agreements reached at the summit in Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea, including an indefinite extension of a ballistic missile test ban by North Korea and promises of large-scale aid by Japan, seem far afield from the position of the Bush administration. And they suggest that Japan has its own ideas about solving global problems, especially when they concern its immediate neighborhood, or the lives of its citizens. 
The summit seemed to be a pointed rejoinder to the Bush administration's policy on North Korea. Early in his administration, President Bush ordered a lengthy review of North Korean policy, effectively crippling the so-called sunshine policy of the South Korean leader, Kim Dae Jung, who hopes to normalize relations with North Korea. The Bush administration has since multiplied its demands, insisting that better relations depend on big concessions on a wide range of security issues, from conventional force deployments to nuclear weapons and missiles.
And the summit seemed to be timed for the South Korean elections, which are just three months away and which could produce a conservative, more isolationist, successor to Mr. Kim. Mr. Koizumi may have moved aggressively to lock in gains with North Korea now. 
But American analysts have questioned why Mr. Koizumi focused largely not on security issues, but on the fates of 11 Japanese citizens who North Korea admitted were abducted in the 1970's and 1980's. Wouldn't Japan be more concerned that North Korea fired a ballistic missile through Japanese airspace in 1998? 
"The Japanese people just don't want to be dictated to by Big Brother anymore, even though the support for our alliance with the United States is broader than in the cold war," said Yoichi Funabashi, an columnist with The Asahi Shimbun, a liberal newspaper. "Settling the missing persons issue helps us recover our national manhood. We have realized that wealth and mercantilism aren't the only concerns for us in the world." 
Japan has also been reluctant to endorse the Bush administration's policy on Iraq. While visiting President Bush at the White House on Sept. 12, Mr. Koizumi simply said that United States should "make further efforts for international cooperation toward a settlement" of the Iraqi problem. 
Nor has Japan actively supported the war in Afghanistan, despite the Bush administration's entreaties. Japan depends heavily on Middle Eastern oil, and its participation is largely symbolic. 
Japan's resistance to American foreign policy has been brewing quietly here for years. After more than 11 years of economic stagnation, a rising generation of decision-makers has watched, with mounting fears, as Japan fades into irrelevance. And these decisionmakers are increasing resentful that their country is treated like a rich but inert appendage of the United States. 
This anger was reflected this month in Japan's best-selling monthly mainstream magazine, Bungei Shunju. It ran a 116-page special report entitled "Distrust of America," which catalogued many of Japan's lingering resentments.
But if Japan is determined to succeed in the big leagues, it is going to need more practice. Mr. Koizumi and his foreign ministry have come under harsh criticism for promising North Korea large amounts of aid, as well as normalization talks, in exchange for clear information about the abductees. The North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, promptly satisfied Japan's demands, although not in the way Japan's overly confident diplomats had imagined. Six of the 11 missing were dead, and the whereabouts of another are unknown. The other five are still alive and will be allowed to return home if they want. 
How could Mr. Koizumi have been maneuvered into getting so little, critics asked, at a cost to taxpayers that could reach an estimated $10 billion?
The answer seems to be that critical decision-making is still often made here in secret by an elite, without public debate. "It is a classic Japan, one part of the establishment rushing off on its own," said Peter Tasker, the director of Arcus Investments who has written widely on Japan. "We've had lots of previous examples of this in history, secretive elite driven policy making that happens without great oversight and leads to disaster.' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LIBERALISM (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); LIBERAL MEDIA (67%); CONSERVATISM (67%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (67%); MISSING PERSONS (60%); WRITERS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); FRENCH, HOWARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (79%) NORTH KOREA; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



624 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: The World: Foot Soldiers; 
What Does 'Regime Change' Mean Anyway?

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE UNITED STATES did not declare war on Iraq last week, but in Washington it was sometimes hard to tell.
 Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld announced on Monday that American and British warplanes had begun bombing major air defense sites in Iraq, a move that could prepare the way for an invasion. Then Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader, pledged that Congress would vote within weeks on a resolution to authorize an attack, with its passage all but assured. On Thursday, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell urged Congress to give the president broad latitude to use force, saying, "The threat of war has to be there." 
 But if a war to overthrow Saddam Hussein seems on track, the discussion of what happens if it succeeds is still in its early stages. For some time now, Iraq experts have wondered just what kind of government, led by whom, would the Bush administration have replace Mr. Hussein. How much of Iraq's military, the police force, the judiciary, the government bureaucracy, the economy itself must be excised to create a democratic state? And who will do the excising? 
Those are questions Congress has just begun asking, and that the Bush administration has yet to answer in public, although it has begun to gather analyses from experts and from Iraqi opposition figures.
Analysts who study Iraq say they are concerned that the focus on ousting Mr. Hussein has masked the complexity of organizing the system that would replace him. "Figuring out who should go is only the beginning," said Anthony Cordesman, a Middle East expert with the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington policy group. "When you talk about just getting rid of Saddam and then a miracle will occur, this is infantile and can do nothing but breed trouble."
During more than two decades of iron-fisted rule, Mr. Hussein has installed loyal members of his immediate family, his extended clan and his home region into top positions throughout the government. He has brutally purged all but the most loyal officers from senior military positions. He has enriched the entrenched leaders of his ruling Baath Party. He has created a governing universe that revolves around his sun.
If that sun is extinguished, many experts warn, its universe could implode into civil unrest, even civil war, unless a new government -- probably one backed by American military might -- asserts its authority immediately.
But those experts also contend that the raw material for a new government -- an educated, technically competent civil bureaucracy -- also exists in Iraq, and a great deal will depend on how easily and quickly it can be converted to the service of a different government at the top. Freeing it from the tentacles of Mr. Hussein's ruling Baath Party, those experts say, would be the key to keeping Iraq from fraying at the seams.
"It's definitely easier to rebuild this country than Afghanistan," said Phebe Marr, a former professor at the National Defense University who has written extensively on Iraq. "Iraq's health system, its water systems, its infrastructure, have been badly damaged. But there is still plenty left."
"First of all, they've got oil," she said. "They have a health system. They have schools. They have a bureaucracy. They have a middle class. They have educated people. They are already providing services."
The trick, the experts say, will be trying to cleanse Iraq's government, military, intelligence services and economic institutions of Mr. Hussein's like-minded loyalists without causing those institutions to collapse like a house of cards. The process will be painstaking, similar to denazification in postwar Germany, experts say, and could require years of American military occupation.
"You have to talk about the de-Baathification of Iraq," said Kanan Makiya, a professor at Brandeis University and director of the Iraq Research and Documentation Project at Harvard. "It's that big a project. You have to seriously restructure the army. You have to rethink entire portions of the government."
Entifadh K. Qanbar, director of the Washington office of the Iraqi National Congress, an opposition group, argued that while many people in the Iraqi bureaucracy committed acts of oppression, most were unwilling pawns of Mr. Hussein and his family. "Take the Ministry of Irrigation," said Mr. Qanbar, a military engineer in Iraq who came to America in 1990. "Most of their projects are focused on irrigating farms owned by Saddam's family or clan or cronies. That has to change. The head of the ministry has to go. But the engineer doing this irrigation shouldn't be removed."
Indeed, many Iraqi opposition leaders and experts contend that before an invasion begins, the United States should offer a general amnesty for the vast majority of Iraqi military and government officials. Nuremberg-like war crime trials should be reserved for a small number of senior leaders, perhaps fewer than 100, those opposition leaders contend.
"This is a country that has made its citizenry complicit in its own criminality," Professor Makiya said. "The problem is very many people have done many terrible things. And you can't hold all of those people accountable."
THOUGH they have yet to publicly outline what they are planning for a post-Hussein Iraq -- and neither Congress nor the Administration has estimated what reconstruction it might cost -- senior Bush administration officials say they are thinking about the problem. They express great optimism that Iraq's economic and governing institutions need not be entirely dismantled to bring about democratic change.
Most Iraqis "can be brought over rather quickly to a new form of government," Mr. Powell told Congress last week, once they see "a better day is coming."
Some leading experts are not quite so confident. Ms. Marr compares Iraq to East Germany, where large sectors of the bureaucracy had to be "re-educated" after the fall of Communism. Others say the rebuilding of Iraq should follow the model of America's military occupation of Japan after World War II.
Either way, these experts say they remain unconvinced that the Bush administration understands the difficulty of the task. 
"Unfortunately, the U.S. government is not very interested in this issue," Mr. Qanbar said. "War is the easiest part."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi soldiers marching in Baghdad in December 2000. How many of them will support Saddam Hussein in the event of an American invasion? (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); RIOTS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); TOM DASCHLE (58%) DAO, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



625 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: The World: The War Wagon; 
Democrats Play the Loyal Opposition

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AS President Bush sought Congressional support last week for a resolution authorizing "all means that he determines to be appropriate, including force" to confront Iraq, the nation heard little dissent from the Democrats.
 In fact, with few exceptions, the Democrats are climbing on the administration's war wagon. Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader, predicted lawmakers would approve Mr. Bush's request with bipartisan support before the November elections, which will decide control of the House and Senate. 
 As Congress considers the fine print of the resolution and all its consequences, there still might be some debate. But some Democrats as well as Republicans say that Mr. Daschle and other top Democrats like Representative Richard A. Gephardt and Senator John F. Kerry are haunted by their 1991 votes against authorization for the gulf war. 
Largely missing has been any contemporary praise for what was then described as a somber and vigorous public debate. 
Now, these Democrats, especially those with their eyes on the White House, are loath to be seen as undercutting a president on foreign policy. They have before them the path of the only Democrats nominated for the national ticket since the gulf war, Bill Clinton, Al Gore and Joseph I. Lieberman -- all of whom had bucked the party's majority and supported the battle to free Kuwait. 
For these Democrats, the legacy of Vietnam has dissipated -- certainly, under President Clinton, the party spent much of the 1990's banishing that cloud in places like Haiti and Bosnia. Instead, the gulf war -- bold, successful and quick -- offers the guiding principle. 
"They're afraid of being on the wrong side of this war," said Michael Kazin, a professor of history at Georgetown University who is the co-author of "America Divided: The Civil War of the 1960's."
So far the one-sided debate hardly resembles the run-up to the gulf war in 1991. Then, Senate Democrats took the lead, with many of them arguing that the administration had not given sanctions enough time, even as administration officials described Iraqi brutality. 
The provocation was clear, but agreeing on methods tore at the Democrats -- 45 out of 55 Democratic senators and 179 of 265 House members opposed war. Yet Congress rallied behind the troops once they were deployed. 
Today, the national mood is far different. The effect of the terrorist attacks is still strong, largely muting the Democratic opposition. 
"There are many Democrats who have great misgivings about this war, but who feel it has no payoff for them" if they oppose it, said Alan Brinkley, a professor of American history at Columbia University. "This is the first war in our modern history in which we've been the instigator, so you would assume there would be more debate." Instead, he added, "it's as if Iraq has attacked us."
The draft resolution President Bush sent to Congress is a open-ended request for military action. Professor Kazin said the language recalls the 1964 Tonkin Gulf Resolution, which he said "was quite sweeping."
"The president was given the power to do whatever he needed to do to repel North Vietnamese aggression against American troops," Professor Kazin said.
With his request, Mr. Bush would be free of strictures involving the United Nations. It establishes no time limits or reporting requirements and does not even confine the president to Iraq, but rather speaks of restoring peace and security "in the region."
"This thing is broad, unchecked authority," said Representative Jim McGovern, a Massachusetts Democrat critical of what he says is a rush to war. "This is basically giving the president the authority to start a war, and saying 'Don't bother to call me, I'll read about it in the newspaper.' "
Just last month, it appeared that there might be vocal debate, if not opposition. The Bush administration appeared in disarray, with officials duking out their differences in the press. 
Overall, the White House seemed to be headed into an electoral season with a sinking economy. 
THIS summer, the Democrats wanted answers: Why attack Iraq, when America's beef is with Al Qaeda? Why now? Will America occupy it? Does Washington dare attack without provocation? What about the world reaction? What is the cost? Former Presidents Clinton and Jimmy Carter raised red flags, and Democrats demanded to know the intentions of the president.
President Bush responded forcefully. He deployed his aides on Sunday talk shows. Intelligence sources raised concerns about Saddam Hussein's progress toward a nuclear weapon. Most effectively, the day after Sept. 11, Mr. Bush made a speech in which he warned of what might come next from Baghdad, then scolded the United Nations for failing to stand up for itself.
The Democratic challenge backfired. The subject turned to war on the president's terms, without a substantive review of what is being undertaken. 
"They've allowed a course of action to be put in place that will make Iraq the dominant issue until November," said Dick Morris, a political adviser to the Clinton White House. For the time being, the Democrats have forfeited the political issues that may work to their advantage.
"Here they have a weakening economy, a growing deficit, a falling stock market and corporate crimes, and they can't get any traction against the party of big business," said Marshall Wittmann, senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, a conservative research organization. "This is driving them insane."
But as Senator Daschle acknowledged last week, the prospect of war trumps all else. Now, the Republicans have identified national security as the Democrats' Achilles' heel and they are already using it in television ads to sway close races.
Meanwhile, Democrats who seek the White House must support use of force and get in sync with American opinion, Mr. Morris said. . For Senator Daschle, who counts former Senator George S. McGovern among his mentors, this has disappointed many liberal supporters. 
"He really hurt his ability to lead his party when he let it trickle out that he's intrigued by the presidency," said Alan K. Simpson, the former Republican senator from Wyoming who calls Senator Daschle a friend.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Gephardt, left, the House Minority Leader, conferred with Tom Daschle, the Senate Majority Leader. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HISTORY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); TOM DASCHLE (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%); AL GORE (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); HAITI (79%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002 



626 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Men's Health; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1984 words

HEADLINE: THE RACIAL DIVIDE; 
As Black Men Move Into Middle Age, Dangers Rise

BYLINE:  By LINDA VILLAROSA

 BODY:
THE most dangerous time of life for a black man in America is middle age.
 After a decade of intense efforts to investigate and reduce the stark gap in life expectancy between between black and white men, researchers and health officials are broadening their focus beyond the violence, drugs and diseases like H.I.V. that claim the lives of many African-American males aged 18 to 35. They are asking not just why so many black men die young, but why so many die younger than they should -- of diseases that should not be so deadly. 
 Death rates for black men are higher than for whites at all ages below 84, but the divide reaches its peak between 45 and 64, the years when diseases that afflict many older Americans begin to hit black men sooner and harder. Stroke and diabetes killed black men between 55 and 64 at about three times the rate for white men their age in 2000, according to the National Centers for Health Statistics, while cancer and heart disease killed black men in that group at rates 50 percent above those for their white peers. 
"When you look at what is killing black men, it is diseases that are preventable or treatable with great survivability," said Dr. Claude A. Allen, deputy secretary for the federal Department of Health and Human Services. 
The fact that there are well-established cures or preventive steps for these conditions gives health officials hope. But turning the thought around shows the frustrating core of the problem: if these diseases can be dealt with, why do black men continue to live an average of seven years less than white men? 
The answers, experts say, lie in a tangle of medical, racial and economic factors. To Dr. Allen, the central task is improving access to health care. "These deaths are associated with not seeking out care soon enough," he said. "We should not be losing men because we have not provided access to care, treatment, information and education in a timely manner."
But recent experience indicates that doing so will not be easy. In 1990, an article in The New England Journal of Medicine focused attention on the problem when it reported that a black man living in central Harlem was less likely to reach 65 than a comparable man in Bangladesh. Though the mortality gap has narrowed slightly since then, a recent report on the health of minority men, issued by the W. K. Kellogg Foundation, concluded that "from birth, a black male on average seems fated to a life so unhealthy that a white man can only imagine it." 
THE threat of premature death looms large in Woodlawn, a predominantly black neighborhood on the South Side of Chicago. The average life span for African-American men there is 58.3 years, according to the city's Department of Health.
Which is why one afternoon a week at the Woodlawn Health Center, Dr. Bonnie Thomas Jr. switches from his usual white coat and tie into jeans, a sports T-shirt, an African beaded necklace and, sometimes, a baseball cap bearing the logo of his alma mater, Xavier. Introducing himself to patients, he skips a handshake and does a "pound" instead, one fist on top of the other. During exams, he tries to drop as much of the "medical speak" as he can. 
On Thursdays from 4 to 7 p.m., the clinic switches from its usual focus on women into Project Brotherhood, for men. They start to trickle in at 1 p.m., and by the time the clinic opens, the waiting area is full of men of all ages in suits, hip-hop garb and African clothing, Dr. Thomas said. While they are waiting, they listen to music, eat a meal provided by the clinic or even get a haircut.
Dr. Thomas and the project's co-director, Donald McDaniels, have made the atmosphere comfortable -- and free -- for a reason. "It's extremely hard to get black men into the system, so we wanted to tear down every barrier and design a place that said, I want to be there," said Dr. Thomas, who grew up on the South Side. "I don't want to be someone in a white coat who is going to talk down to them, but a guy at the corner Y.M.C.A., or someone they grew up with, which is not far from who I am anyway. But no matter how informal I can get, I'm always giving these men the standard of care they deserve; it's just packaged differently."
Distrust of the system and difficulties in communication are pervasive. A recent survey of health care quality conducted by the Commonwealth Fund found that almost twice as many blacks as whites thought their doctor "looked down on them" or treated them disrespectfully. 
Many observers point to an exaggeration of a common male trait: a reluctance to go to the doctor at all. "Men, overall, have a particular set of pressures to show strength and not reveal weakness, and this feeling is intensified in black men," said Ellis Cose, a Newsweek columnist and author of "The Envy of the World: On Being a Black Man in America."
"There is an ethic of toughness among black men, built up to protect yourself against racial slights and from the likelihood that society is going to challenge you or humiliate you in some way," he said. "This makes it very hard to admit that you are in pain or need help either physical or psychological." 
Dr. Jean Bonhomme, president of the National Black Men's Health Network, a nonprofit advocacy and education organization in Atlanta, calls this trait "pathological stoicism," a problem he sees even in himself. 
"African-American men have had to deal with tremendous hardships and not complain, because complaining didn't help," Dr. Bonhomme said. "Now we push ourselves to distorted extremes without asking for help in order to 'be a man.' It is a matter of pride to brush off pain. Several years ago, I injured my back so badly that I could hardly walk. My wife saw me drop to my knees in order to get out of a chair, and said to me, 'What the hell are you doing?' I looked at myself and realized how crazy I was being."
Norman Jackson, who is 49 and and lives in Detroit, knew diabetes ran in his family, but avoided seeing a doctor because the visits made him feel "vulnerable." Even though he was often thirsty, was urinating frequently and his vision changed so much that he said he could hardly see to drive, he insisted there was nothing wrong. Finally, about two years ago, Mr. Jackson was tested for diabetes and high blood pressure at a health screening sponsored by the African American Initiative for Male Health Improvement. He found that he had both. 
"My father was diabetic and I knew I should get my sugar checked out, but I didn't want to feel weak," said Mr. Jackson, who now takes medication to control both his blood sugar and blood pressure and also exercises and watches his diet. "Eventually, I realized that this is dangerous, and you can't mess around with your health. I haven't neglected myself since."
While access to treatment is one problem, there are also problems with the treatment African-American men actually receive. Last spring, the Institute of Medicine reported on a review of more than 100 studies, and the findings were startling: even when African-Americans and other minorities have the same incomes, insurance coverage and medical conditions as whites, they receive notably poorer care. Biases, prejudices and negative racial stereotypes, the panel learned, may be poisoning the reaction of doctors and other health providers.
"Some of the most esteemed scientists in the world proved that medical care is not being dished out fairly," said Dr. James W. Reed, a professor of medicine at the Morehouse School of Medicine in Atlanta and a co-author of "The Black Man's Guide to Good Health: Essential Advice for African-American Men and Their Families." "White men were referred for sophisticated procedures like cardiac catheterization three or four times more frequently than blacks with the same symptoms at a V.A. hospital, where ability to pay doesn't matter.
"Is it overt racism? I don't know," Dr. Reed continued. "Maybe it's more subtle, like physicians don't think blacks will adhere to therapy. But in the final analysis, whatever the definition, it is still discrimination based solely on skin color." 
PERHAPS the most puzzling part of the equation has to do with high blood pressure, a major contributor to heart disease, stroke and many other diseases. It strikes one-third of all black men, and is twice as deadly for blacks as it is for whites. Interestingly, West Africans, from whom most American blacks are descended, have low rates of hypertension. Some experts suggest that stress and societal racial discrimination that black men (and women) suffer in this country play a major role. During a stressful incident, the body produces adrenaline and the heart rate and blood pressure increase. Experts speculate that constant engaging of a fight-or-flight mechanism by racial insults can contribute to chronically elevated blood pressure.
Public and private institutions are pushing to close the racial gap in health disparities. The bulk of programs and projects for African-Americans, however, are aimed at women. A survey of state health departments by Dr. Ronald L. Braithwaite, the director of the Center for Research on Health Disparities at Emory University, found that few were specifically for African-American men's health. 
For instance, Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health 2010, an initiative of the federal Centers for Disease Control, was created to finance community coalitions with the goal of eliminating racial and ethnic disparities in health over the next decade. But the majority of its 42 programs are either not gender-specific or are aimed at African-American women and children. "The communities were allowed to choose health priority areas, and none said just African-American men," said Dr. Imani Ma'at, director of the program. "Women are the ones who are involved in the health care system, present at schools and in churches, so they are an easier group to reach out to and communicate with." 
STILL, there are some programs to specifically improve the health of black men. In addition to the screening program Mr. Jackson saw in Detroit and Project Brotherhood, the African-American Male Empowerment Network offers support groups and a 10-week health promotion and disease prevention course to men in the Atlanta area. The Young Men's Clinic, a joint project of Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health and New York Presbyterian Hospital, provides free medical care to mainly black and Hispanic patients. 
"Traditional approaches often don't work with black men," said Dr. Braithwaite, who is a co-editor of the book "Health Issues in the Black Community." "There is an increasing recognition that we have to go to the pockets of critical mass. That means going to where men convene."
The Detroit project sends a medical van into black communities and has screened nearly 8,000 men over the last few years. On Sept. 7, about 2,000 people, mostly black men, attended the first annual Health Initiative for Men, a prostate cancer walk and health summit in Atlanta. 
Finally, many African-American men have simply decided to beat the odds and take responsibility for their health. Nathaniel Plowden, a supervisor for U.P.S. in Atlanta, became strict about scheduling annual physicals when his father received a diagnosis with advanced prostate cancer 16 years ago. Thanks to his vigilance, his prostate cancer was caught early, and he considers himself recovered. He and other family members are now part of a clinical trial looking for hereditary causes of prostate cancer in black men. 
"My father took care of himself, but he never went to the doctor," said Mr. Plowden, who is 54. "He was in severe pain by the time he saw someone and by then we found out his cancer was very advanced. What happened to him spurred me into continuing to go to the doctor. The notion of being dumb and happy never motivated me. I want to know what's going on so I can deal with it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: HELPING THEM STAY HEALTHY -- Dr. Bonnie Thomas Jr., left, sees a patient at Project Brotherhood health clinic. (Scott Olson for The New York Times); RAISING AWARENESS -- About 2,000 people, mostly black men, participated in a health march in Atlanta earlier this month. (Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. F8) Chart:The death rate for men 55 to 64 years old from strokes in 2000. Chart shows Deaths per 100,000 population in specified group. (Source: National Center for Health Statistics)(pg. F1) Chart: "Early Killers"The death rate (deaths per 100,000 population in specified group) for men in 2000. ALL CANCERWHITE MEN (AGE 55-64): 406BLACK MEN (AGE 55-64): 654 HEART DISEASEWHITE MEN (AGE 55-64): 359BLACK MEN (AGE 55-64): 669 DIABETESWHITE MEN (AGE 55-64): 38BLACK MEN (AGE 55-64): 92 (Source: National Center for Health Statistics)(pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MEN (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); MEN'S HEALTH (77%); CANCER (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); AGING (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); DISABLED PERSONS (73%); STROKES (72%); HEART DISEASE (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); DIABETES (72%); STATISTICS (70%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



627 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Free Software, at Least to a Certain Point

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
After the Microsoft jokes, after the speaker's disquisition on the moral imperative of free software, after the salad, steak and chocolate raspberry pie, the benefit dinner for the Free Software Foundation in Manhattan finally came down to business last Thursday.
 It seems the foundation, whose purpose is to persuade people to donate their software code to the greater good, needs money. The paradox was not lost on some diners, who questioned what "free" actually meant in such contexts. 
 "Shouldn't you change the name?" one diner asked Eben Moglen, a Columbia Law School professor and the foundation's lawyer. "It's so confusing." 
Mr. Moglen said he did not think a name change was necessary. As Richard M. Stallman, the foundation's founder, likes to say: Free software is "free as in freedom, not as in beer."
Free software is software that anyone can tinker with, copy and redistribute at will. But theoretically, it can be sold for a lot of money. Robert Dewar, host of the benefit dinner at his Fifth Avenue apartment off Union Square, does just that with his company, Ada Core Technologies. He sells free software to aerospace companies that want to be able to modify it for their own use. The minimum charge, Mr. Dewar said, is $12,000.
Mr. Stallman's point, now supported by many thousands of programmers worldwide, is that software becomes better when more people can work on it. Recently, several companies, including I.B.M., Sun Microsystems and Red Hat, have started trying to make money on that premise by selling software and technical support for Linux, the main competitor to Microsoft's Windows.
It mignt be thought that such companies would be a natural source of financing for the Free Software Foundation. But not during the current technology recession. So the foundation relies on volunteers, who -- as is the case with a lot of free software -- mostly want to work on their own pet projects. "That's why our Web site is so bad," said Bradley M. Kuhn, the foundation's executive director, as dinner wrapped up. 
The hat was passed. And the 25 or so guests, who ranged from a music school student to technology gurus from large financial and advertising companies, gave a total of $6,000 to the cause of free software. AMY HARMON

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eben Moglen, a Columbia Law School professor, speaking about digital copyright concerns at a benefit dinner for the Free Software Foundation. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (93%); FUNDRAISING (90%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (90%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); LAWYERS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FREE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (54%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: DEWAR, ROBERT; HARMON, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



628 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: MediaTalk; 
Rock Group Finds a New Wayto Sell Out

BYLINE:  By CHRIS NELSON 

 BODY:
Here is some investment advice you will not hear on CNBC: put your money in a rock group.
 Dozens of people have done just that, buying shares in an unusual band-and-fan venture started by the Philadelphia music group, Grey Eye Glances. Through a private offering, the "adult alternative" band raised several hundred thousand dollars to start the Grey Album, a company responsible for producing, manufacturing and promoting Grey Eye Glances' seventh album, "A Little Voodoo." Rykodisc will distribute the new CD. 
 The band's financing innovation comes as the big labels in the consolidated music industry, battling consumer malaise and the upheaval of online music distribution, increasingly shy away from acts that cannot sell at least 500,000 copies of an altbum. For bands without obvious mass appeal, strategies like Grey Eye Glances' "may be part of the future," said Jack Emerson, co-owner with the singer-songwriter Steve Earle of E Squared Records. "I don't think it's that different from making a movie where you've got outside investors."
The band's bassist, Eric O'Dell, a Bucknell University economics major who spent six years with a Wall Street firm, said the new company attracted more money than Grey Eye Glances had available to it during a two-album stint in the late 1990's with Mercury Records.
Potential investors were allowed to hear demos of "A Little Voodoo." The company prospectus even included a clause to prevent the band from succumbing to music industry excesses. "Some of these investors are like, 'Well, what if you go nuts? What if this goes to your head and you just start spending money like Elton John, $200,000 on an outfit?' " Mr. O'Dell said.
If Grey Eye Glances finds success beyond its traditional fan-base in the Northeast and Midwest, investors could make more than just their money back. Members of the company jointly own the mechanical copyright on "A Little Voodoo." Revenue will come from CD sales and licensing of the music to, for example, television or film projects. 
Most of the company's 40 members -- who each could invest up to $20,000 -- are fans. For some, the novelty of the project holds more appeal than its economic promise. 
"It's a way for me and the other people who are part of this to really feel like they're a part of the band, part of their music," said Bob Smyth of West Milford, N.J., a corporate travel manager with Gant Travel Management. 
Even before investing, Mr. Smyth hired the band to play at company parties. Now he hopes the group's popularity will spread. 
"I would hope that even if I weren't invested," he said. "Now that I have a little piece of the action, I'm there. I'm pretty much walking around with a sandwich board." CHRIS NELSON

GRAPHIC: Photos: By seeking investments privately, Grey Eye Glances says it raised more than it would have gotten from a big record label. The group members promised shareholders that they wouldn't "go nuts" with the money. (Joe Smith Photo); 'A Little Voodoo" could reward both the band and shareholders. (Joe Smith Photo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (93%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (78%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); SONG WRITING (72%); FILM (67%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (67%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (60%) MUSIC; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: BUCKNELL UNIVERSITY (55%) GREY EYE GLANCES (MUSIC GROUP); GREY ALBUM 

PERSON: ELTON JOHN (57%) NELSON, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



629 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
DVD's have found an unexpected route to a wide public: snail mail.

BYLINE:  By Peter Wayner 

 BODY:
IT has been a long-cherished dream of the digital age: video on demand. That's the term used for the delivery of cinema-quality movies to television households, with each consumer choosing what to watch and when to watch it.
 But the technical challenges have been a deterrent. The main obstacle for cable systems has been creating and maintaining a sufficiently large database of movies. The problem for Internet systems has been network circuits too narrow to carry data files the size of movies, which can be four billion to nine billion bytes each. 
 In the last year, though, a flourishing digital video-on-demand market has developed, thanks to the least probable of carriers: the United States Postal Service.
Because of cost advantages and, in some cases, even an edge in speed, the Postal Service, FedEx and other physical delivery services now seem to be the dominant mechanism for bringing data-rich digital content, on demand, into the nation's households.
The secret of the Postal Service's digital success is the DVD, a plastic disc that costs about a dollar each to manufacture in quantities of a thousand and only 37 cents to mail. The public's rapid embrace of the DVD format since its introduction in 1997 has been well documented, both in terms of sales of DVD player consoles and the discs themselves, which Hollywood and distributors have chosen to price as a for-purchase product -- as opposed to the rental-market economics on which the videocassette business was based when it emerged.
And yet a brisk rental market for DVD's has also developed. Much of the rental activity is conducted by companies like Netflix, CafeDVD, QwikFlicks and DVD Avenue, all of which let customers choose their movies from Web sites, but deliver them as DVD's through the mail. (With most of these services, customers pay monthly subscriptions and receive other DVD's once they have mailed back the movies they have already watched.) If this system does not fulfill the immediate gratification implicit in the typical video-on-demand pipe dream, at least it is allowing real people to watch real movies of their own choosing.
Andrew Odlyzko, the director of the Digital Technology Center at the University of Minnesota, says that the cost to the service provider of transmitting a data file the size of a typical DVD movie over the Internet could be nearly $20. What's more, a home user with a 56-kilobit-a-second modem could wait two weeks for a movie to download -- much longer than the three days the post office estimates it would take to mail a DVD coast to coast.
And while Hollywood copyright lawyers get nervous when they contemplate the online distribution of digital movies, the DVD is a well understood and trusted format -- at least as long as the digital discs remain as difficult for the typical user to copy as they are today.
All these factors are behind the success of Netflix, one of the first companies to recognize the opportunity in building a plastic broadcast network. The company mails about 190,000 discs each day to its 670,000 monthly subscribers.
How much data do all those discs contain? Ralph Tribbey, the editor of the DVD Release Report, an industry newsletter, says that many of the most popular, big studio movies are released on the DVD-9 format, which can hold 7.95 gigabytes, or billions of bytes, or the DVD-10 format, which can hold 8.75 gigabytes.
"The big releases need all of the bandwidth they can get their hands on," Mr. Tribbey said, to carry the multiple picture sizes, additional scenes, making-of-the-movie documentaries and other add-ons.
Some of the older releases, without the extra material, use the less expensive DVD-5 format, which holds about 4.3 gigabytes. Still quite rare are more voluminous formats like the DVD-18, which can store up to 15.9 gigabytes.
Assuming that the average disc Netflix sends out contains 8 gigabytes, that one company alone may be mailing out about 1,500 trillion bytes, or terabytes, each day.
Estimates vary on how much data the Internet carries in North America each day. RHK, a research company in San Francisco, says the number exceeds 4,000 terabytes, while Professor Odlyzko argues that the Internet daily traffic flow is only about 2,000 terabytes -- or only about a third more data than the amount Netflix ships.
Of course, Netflix is not the only company mailing rental DVD's. Video Store magazine estimates that, beyond rentals, about 1.5 million DVD's, or 800 terabytes, are sold each day through Internet or telephone orders and dispatched by mail, FedEx or other parcel service.
David Farber, a University of Pennsylvania computer scientist who was an early architect of the Internet and is a Netflix customer, says that he does not expect the Internet to catch up with the DVD Pony Express any time soon.
"It's going to be years before we get the bandwidth," Mr. Farber said. "When I sit back, I want the quality that comes with a DVD; I don't want to look at a 2-by-2 hole, which is what you get with the Internet" when watching video on a computer. Where the Net pays, he says, is when people say, "I want it, and want it now."
Meanwhile, watch for high-quality digital movies coming to a mailbox near you.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CD & DVD DRIVES (90%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (90%); FILM (90%); BROADBAND (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); DIGITAL CINEMA (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (73%) RECORDINGS (VIDEO); RENTING AND LEASING; POSTAL SERVICE; DVD (DIGITAL VERSATILE DISK); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (90%) FEDEX CORP; NETFLIX.COM 

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (90%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (90%)

PERSON: WAYNER, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



630 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Brasil Telecom gainsadvantage from the problems of others on its home turf.

BYLINE:  By Simon Romero 

 BODY:
BRAZIL, with its volatile currency and fast-changing economy, is coming to symbolize the dashed expansionist hopes of numerous North American and European telecommunications companies. But while companies like Sprint, WorldCom, BellSouth, France Telecom and Bell Canada International count their speculative losses, one local player -- Brasil Telecom -- is mining the rubble. 
 Brasil Telecom is currently in talks to acquire three companies that are backed by foreign investors. One is MetroRed, an Internet access provider controlled by the private-equity arm of Fidelity Investments, a unit of FMR. Another is Globenet, an operator of a fiber optic cable connecting Brazil and the United States, which belongs to the Canadian company 360networks. The third is Intelig, a long-distance carrier controlled by Sprint, France Telecom and National Grid of Britain. 
 Talks to buy MetroRed and Globenet are at a more advanced stage than are the negotiations to buy Intelig, said Luiz Octavio Carvalho da Motta Veiga, the chairman of Brasil Telecom's board, who spoke last week by telephone from Rio de Janeiro. Representatives for the other companies involved in the talks declined to comment.
Only a year ago, Brasil Telecom seemed to be a marginal player in its home country, providing telephone service in southern and west-central Brazil. But the pending deals would turn the company into a nationwide long distance carrier and provider of high-speed Internet services to business customers. 
The prospect of the acquisitions and the fire-sale prices that Brasil Telecom is believed to be negotiating for the companies have fueled optimism among investors. Despite concern over Brazil's economy in the period before next month's presidential election, two investment banks -- UBS Warburg and Merrill Lynch -- recently named Brasil Telecom as their top pick among Latin American telecommunications companies.
Since late July, when it became increasingly apparent that Brasil Telecom would resolve an internal shareholder dispute with Telecom Italia, its American depository receipts have climbed more than 19 percent, closing at $25.90, on Friday. 
Certainly, the failed efforts of foreign telecommunications investors have left many distressed properties in Brazil. WorldCom, for example, shifted the poor results of its Brazilian subsidiary, Embratel, off its balance sheet. WorldCom has recently begun to reconsider that move, which could lead to the company's restating its past losses by an additional $2 billion to $3 billion. WorldCom is also seeking to find a buyer for Embratel.
Meanwhile, BellSouth has had trouble at its BCP unit, a large wireless carrier serving the city of Sao Paulo. BCP defaulted on a $375 million debt payment earlier this year, setting off a dispute with BCP's Brazilian shareholders. 
And Bell Canada International, Qualcomm and VeloCom, a Colorado investment firm, have had only losses from the $1.6 billion they jointly invested in Vesper, a fixed wireless communications venture.
For now, though, Brasil Telecom is focusing on Intelig, MetroRed and Globenet. Rodrigo Magela Pereira, an analyst at Banco Pactual in Rio de Janeiro, said Brasil Telecom could end up paying as little as $200 million for Intelig, in which Sprint and its partners have invested $1.5 billion since 1999, and $50 million for MetroRed, in which a group led by Fidelity invested $200 million.
A person involved in the talks to sell GlobeNet, which 360networks acquired for $1 billion, said the eventual price would be "anyone's guess at this point." But if recent sales of other fiber optic assets are any indication, Brasil Telecom could pay just a penny on the dollar for GlobeNet, which is controlled by a group of banks and Alcatel of France.
Analysts say Brasil Telecom arrived at its enviable bargaining position not through any grand business vision but because an internal power struggle delayed its own investments -- allowing the company to preserve its cash while rivals were scrambling to upgrade their networks.
Brasil Telecom is believed to have a cash pile of about $500 million for acquisitions. Carla Cico, Brasil Telecom's chief executive, declined to comment on how much the company was prepared to spend for those or other properties.
"We'd like to pursue deals that leave us in a financially strong position," Ms. Cico said.
A person involved in the talks between Intelig and Brasil Telecom said that deal was the more tenuous of the three, with regulatory hurdles and the possibility of a liquidation of Intelig's assets hanging over negotiations. Brasil Telecom could also succeed in acquiring Intelig for a lot less than $200 million, the figure publicly discussed, this person said.
The ability to proceed with these deals came after Opportunity, the Rio de Janeiro-based private-equity group that owns part of Brasil Telecom, engineered a complex deal last month that gave it control of the company. The agreement ended two years of infighting.
Under the terms of the transaction, Telecom Italia ceded its stake in Brasil Telecom to a trustee in London. Telecom Italia's wireless division was then freed from regulatory constraints that had kept it from a plan to provide cellular service across Brazil. 
Telecom Italia had spent more than $900 million for wireless licenses and had reportedly been losing $500,000 a day because its plans were stalled until the resolution of its dispute. Telecom Italia Mobile said it had not publicly disclosed losses related to the operation.
Bruno Contigiani, a spokesman for Telecom Italia in Rome, said its relationship with Opportunity and Brasil Telecom was a "more peaceful situation now." Part of the deal may allow Telecom Italia to repurchase its stake in Brasil Telecom at a later date, if regulators allow.
Opportunity, which is run by the Brazilian financier Daniel Dantas, is no stranger to controversy. For example, it has been in a long legal dispute over control of two wireless carriers with Telesystem International Wireless, a wireless company based in Montreal, and several Brazilian pension funds. 
So it remains to be seen how Brasil Telecom will proceed with its acquisition strategy even as its controlling shareholder, Opportunity, seeks to resolve other disputes, including a legal battle in the Cayman Islands over management practices at CVC/Opportunity, an investment fund backed in part by Citigroup.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Sifting the Ashes"With many foreign investors seeking to cut their losses after investing aggressively in the Brazilian telecommunications industry, one local company, Brasil Telecom, hopes to capitalize on the turmoil. Here is a look at the status of its dealings with a handful of foreign players. FOREIGN INVESTORS: Sprint, France Tlcom and National GridBRAZILIAN VENTURE: $2 billion in Intelig longdistance carrierSTATUS: Brasil Telecom in talks buy for $200 million FOREIGN INVESTORS: 360networksBRAZILIAN VENTURE: $1 billion to acquire Globenet, which links Brazil to the United States via a fiber optic cableSTATUS: Brasil Telecom in talks buy for fraction of face value FOREIGN INVESTORS: Fidelity Investments and Boston VenturesBRAZILIAN VENTURE: $200 million in MetroRed to provide communications services for companiesSTATUS: Brasil Telecom in talks to buy for $50 million (Sources: Pactual Group; Exame) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (93%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ACQUISITIONS (76%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (76%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (76%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (76%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (72%); ELECTIONS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (95%); OI SA (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE TELECOMMUNICACOES SA (EMBRATEL) (64%); BCE INC (58%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (58%); FMR CORP (57%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (56%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (53%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (53%); QUALCOMM INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METRORED (CO); GLOBENET COMMUNICATIONS GROUP; INTELIG 

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (95%); FTE (NYSE) (95%); FTE (BIT) (95%); OIBR3 (BOVESPA) (92%); OIBR (NYSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); BCE (TSX) (58%); BCE (NYSE) (58%); NGG (NYSE) (56%); NG (LSE) (56%); TIT (BIT) (53%); TI (NYSE) (53%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (56%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (56%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (59%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (59%) BRAZIL (99%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) BRAZIL

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



631 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
A Music-Swapping Service Gains Stature in New Deal
The operator of the KaZaA music-swapping service plans to announce a partnership today with Tiscali of Italy, a big Internet access provider in Europe.
 The deal, the first of its kind, appears to give KaZaA a new ally in the fierce legal and policy debate that has pitted record companies against KaZaA and similar services, including Napster. It also underscores the potential common interests of high-speed Internet access providers and organizations that deliver complex digital media. Page C2. 

Software Maker Files Chapter 11
Peregrine Systems, a business software maker, said it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. It also said it would sue Arthur Andersen claiming damages from accounting irregularities. BMC Software said it would buy a Peregrine's unit for $350 million. C11.

A Columnist's Exit Is Debated
The sudden, crashing end of Bob Greene's 24-year career as a columnist for The Chicago Tribune reverberated throughout his city and profession last week. As the few details of his 1988 sexual encounter with the 17-year-old subject of one column trickled out, readers and journalists argued over Mr. Greene's downfall with the passion usually reserved for sports or politics. C9.

Brasil Telecom Raises Its Profile
Only a year ago, Brasil Telecom seemed to be a marginal player in its home country. Now, while other telecommunications giants are faltering, Brasil Telecom is in talks to acquire three companies in Brazil that are backed by foreign investors. Market Place. C5.

Genealogy's Lucrative Online Niche
Once largely the province of Civil War buffs, Mormons and aging aunts, family history is now among the fastest growing and more potentially lucrative niches on the commercial Internet. And along with collectibles trading, genealogy is a consumer category that has truly flourished in the digital era. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C8.

Logan Airport to Install Scanners
Logan Airport in Boston will announce today that it is installing scanners that can check the authenticity of hundreds of kinds of drivers licenses and passports, check the bearers' names against government "watch lists," and generate lists, with photos, of whose document was checked and at what time. Section A.

A Bid to Overcome Patent Backlogs
The patents commissioner is trying to revamp a notoriously backlogged office and process amid complaints from politicians and inventors. Patents. C2.

The Packaging of Video on Demand
In the last year, a flourishing digital video-on-demand market has developed, thanks to the least probable of carriers: the United States Postal Service. Because of cost advantages and, in some cases, even an edge in speed, the Postal Service, FedEx and other physical delivery services now seem to be the dominant mechanism for bringing data-rich digital content, on demand, into the nation's households. New Economy. C4.

Freedom and Constraints of 'Blogs'
Print and television journalists are discovering the freedom of Web logs, or "blogs," online soapboxes that typically consist of frequent entries with pithy commentary and links to other Web sites. But that freedom can also have some unpleasant consequences. C9.

Korea Penalizes Firms Over Trades
The watchdog agency of Korea's financial system penalized three firms as a result of a case in which a stolen account number was used for the first time in Internet stock trading. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Drawing Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 7,986.02 down 326.67Nasdaq composite -- 1,221.09 down 70.3110-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.78% down 0.13The euro -- $0.9807 up 0.0088The dollar -- 123.35 yen up 1.62

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (89%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (89%); BROADBAND (89%); PATENTS (87%); GENEALOGY (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (70%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (70%); DAMAGES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); FAMILY (68%); POSTAL SERVICE (60%); ACCOUNTING (54%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (50%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (50%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES

COMPANY: TISCALI SPA (91%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (50%)

TICKER: TIS (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541890 OTHER SERVICES RELATED TO ADVERTISING (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (91%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (50%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) BRAZIL (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



632 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: On Television; 
Cable Thrives, But Broadcast TV Is Hardly Extinct

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG 

 BODY:
All anyone seems to talk about is HBO's "The Sopranos," a sore point to the executives of the broadcast television networks as they prepared to roll out the bulk of the new fall season, beginning tonight.
 But if the buzz created by a cable show is humiliating, there are signs that ought to give the networks' relief from predictions that they are dinosaurs doomed to extinction by the rise of cable and the rapidly spreading 200-channel universe. 
 Recent estimates indicate that NBC and CBS had the best advanced ad sales in their histories (about $2.6 billion and $2 billion, respectively) after an industrywide decrease in those sales last year. Even ABC and Fox, both of which struggled last season, did slightly better than expected. Based on the surprisingly strong ratings for the few shows unveiled last week, the prognosis is somewhat encouraging. 
Also, even though they slowly continue to lose audiences to cable -- for the first time this summer more than half of America's TV's were tuned to basic cable in prime time -- the broadcasters are benefiting from a paradox: the more niche channels proliferate, the more valuable the networks become to advertisers still seeking to reach a broad audience.
Despite the onslaught of "The Sopranos" on HBO, "The Osbournes" on MTV, and several other new cable hits, broadcast television is remaining viable for reasons that will be evident in the new season.
The networks have blended the franker material of cable and their own family-style sitcoms and dramas. They continue to freshen and increase reality programming -- an inexpensive genre, born in cable, that is attracting a new wave of younger viewers to the networks of their parents.
This season the networks are offering up to eight hours of MTV-style, voyeuristic reality programs each week -- up from just three hours three years ago. CBS is bringing back the program that truly spawned the trend, "Survivor." In the winter, Fox will bring back its summer hit "American Idol," in which scores of youngsters compete for a major recording contract while being verbally abused by one of their auditioners; ABC will start another season of "The Bachelor," in which a single man selects a potential bride among 25 women; NBC brings back "Fear Factor," in which strangers compete for cash prizes by eating insects or spending time in a pit with 400 rats.
Some new programs will push the boundaries of taste closer to those of cable. On the new NBC sitcom "Good Morning, Miami," a grandmother advises her son that he needs to have more premarital sex and uses a risque euphemism for sex.
Jeff Zucker, the NBC Entertainment president, said a new program to be introduced later in the season, "Kingpin," will take graphic content to new levels for network TV.
Still, there are a large number of new programs that could have just as easily been shown on network television 20 years ago and that stay far away from the on-the-edge material of HBO.
The second most-watched show after "Survivor" last week was "8 Simple Rules for Dating My Teenage Daughter" on ABC. It features John Ritter, who came to fame on "Three's Company" in the late 1970's, as a father who takes on more responsibility for his three children when his wife takes a new job. A new program on WB, "Everwood," about a father who is left to raise his teenage son and young daughter when his wife dies, drew the largest audience for that network for a Monday night premiere in its history.
That success -- though it could prove short-lived when CBS and NBC introduce their new programs this week -- underscored for many in the industry that broadcast television still seems to do best when it sticks to basics.
Indeed, sometimes the most traditional shows draw the broadest and biggest audiences. And while the nation's largest advertisers may increasingly see cable as a place to advertise, as it stands now, no single cable network can draw the sort of audience that a broadcast network can on a nightly basis.
The record audience of 13.4 million people for "The Sopranos" last week -- shown on a network that is in less than a third of the nation's homes with TV and does not run commercials anyway -- was overshadowed by that of "Survivor."
Such ratings discrepancies have helped broadcast television maintain a huge advantage over cable in the amount of money it can charge for each thousand people it reaches -- 40 to 60 percent, according to Jack Myers, chief economist at Jack Myers L.L.C. in New York, which publishes media research newsletters.
"It's still the only place you're going to go to make a really big splash," said Stacey Lynn Koerner, director of broadcast research at Initiative Media. But, she added, "How long it remains that way remains to be seen."
The challenges to the industry's future remain intense. Last April marked a negative milestone, when more than half of all homes watching TV in prime time were watching basic cable -- the first time that had ever happened during an entire month of a regular broadcast season, according to Nielsen Media Research. That was partly due to the success of "The Osbournes," the MTV reality program based on the home life of the rock star Ozzy Osbourne, which surged that month and once drew an audience of nearly eight million people.
"Holy grail is as good a way as any of putting it," Betsy Frank, executive vice president of research and planning for MTV Networks, said of the April cable figures. "For the last 20 years, we've been watching the shares tick in that direction, but this was certainly a major event."
Basic cable took roughly the same share of the audience during the summer, with the help of new hits like TLC's "Trading Spaces," a reality program in which interior designers quickly remake homes and the USA Network's new programs, "Monk" and "Dead Zone."
And maintaining a broadcast network takes a tremendous, ongoing investment in sports rights and program development. Despite the record advertising revenues, this year only two networks, NBC and CBS, were expected by analysts and industry executives to make profits ($500 million and up to $250 million respectively).
The networks will be further challenged should digital recording devices like TiVo, which allow people to skip through commercials, spread significantly.
On the bright side: network television executives expect the Federal Communications Commission to ease restrictions on how many local stations they can own. Local stations are cash cows. NBC- and CBS-owned stations made just as much for their parent companies as the networks did. The ABC and Fox stations helped offset those networks' losses.
For now, broadcast network executives say they envision a healthy future alongside cable.
"It's not mutually exclusive," said Leslie Moonves, the CBS Television president. " 'The Sopranos' can live and be well, and so can the broadcast networks." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (96%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%) TELEVISION; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: HOME BOX OFFICE INC (92%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (86%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; CBS CORP; ABC INC; FOX TELEVISION NETWORK 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (86%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (86%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: RUTENBERG, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



633 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Richmond Journal; 
Quilt Helps Patch Lives Torn by Abuse

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va., Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Battered women in Virginia's 68 shelters designed to hold off abusive spouses and boyfriends are resorting to an old homespun outlet for their fears and frustrations. At night in their sanctuaries they are concocting a giant quilt filled with confessional messages of depression and resistance in the common hope for a safer existence. 
 "Mine was a classic self-destructive relationship," said Sheila Mandt, a Salvation Army worker. "I clung to it. I fled across four states, fleeing him, fleeing myself." 
 After all the battering at the hands of her former boyfriend, Ms. Mandt said, she decided she had a bigger score to settle with herself. So she started the statewide quilting project to bring forth some of the victims she finds hiding, cowering and surviving in solitude and in need of some mutual sign of perseverance.
"I figured quilting, sewing, that's the stereotype of what women do, right?" said Ms. Mandt, 36, grateful for any sense of irony the public might perceive when the 150-by-10-foot quilt is unveiled this fall. 
Exhausted mothers, teenage girls wary of beaus, gray-haired grandmothers slapped around by family patriarchs, plus children and at least one male spouse have been making individualized panels for the quilt to show the public how widespread and dismal the problem of domestic violence remains.
There is a sad panel commemorating the death of Sigrid, a woman who was killed along with her two children by her husband. There is a defiant panel celebrating the continuing life of Guinette, repeatedly stalked at night, beaten and stabbed, Ms. Mandt said, but still alive enough to contribute to the quilt.
"It's not what people imagine -- some poor, African-American woman with children, dependent and trapped by an abuser," said Ms. Mandt, a native New Yorker. "It crosses racial and economic barriers and can touch anybody."
She said she has admitted her own past weakness in clinging to a relationship that turned out to be special solely for the chronic beatings she suffered. 
"I had all the opportunities in the world and still went down the wrong road," she said. "I ended up in a relationship that, to save my life, I couldn't get out of. The police and prosecutor turned me away when I sought help, telling me I was asking for trouble by choosing to stay in that environment. I had people at work reduced to laughing at me because of the bruises on my face."
Ms. Mandt said that when her boyfriend began delighting in describing in detail how he would murder her, she finally mustered the courage to flee to another part of the country. In the last decade, she managed a new life, happily marrying a gentle man and plunging into social work. She is director of development for the Salvation Army's Richmond region. 
An instinctive organizer, Ms. Mandt comes across all manner of human conflicts and needs in her job. But none, she found, are so repetitive and relentless as the battering syndrome that had been quietly haunting her from the life she fled 12 years ago.
"A beating every 15 seconds, a murder every 27 minutes," she said, summarizing the national statistics on domestic violence. This is such a routine part of life's fabric that a quilt from the hands of its victims strikes her as a worthy statement. 
Ms. Mandt started the quilt project with help from Virginians Against Domestic Violence, a private advocacy group. She found eager support from state Attorney General Jerry Kilgore, who became the project co-chairman, plus corporate help here from the Philip Morris headquarters.
"We needed a celebrity so I looked up Sissy Spacek's address, wrote to her, and got a reply that she'd be happy to be co-chairperson," Ms. Mandt said.
She is the first to acknowledge that a quilt is nothing much -- simplicity itself, in fact, tangible and work intensive, but ideal, she says, for trying something creative from the misery being shared in the 68 shelters. Eventually, the giant quilt is to be divided into 14 quilts that will hang in corporate headquarters.
"That's where the message should go, not in the shelters," Ms. Mandt said. "Battered women already know all about the problem."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sheila Mandt, left, a Salvation Army social worker, and Julia Pfaff, a seamstress, in Ms. Pfaff's Richmond, Va., studio on Friday with a quilt being made by survivors of domestic violence who live in shelters across the state. (Dean Hoffmeyer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (92%); DEPRESSION (90%); QUILTS & QUILTING (90%); MEN (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MURDER (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%) DOMESTIC VIOLENCE; WOMEN; QUILTS; DEPRESSION (MENTAL); MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X 

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) VIRGINIA

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



634 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Wine Auction Falls Short Of Estimate By $3 Million 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
Morrell & Company's weekend auction of a cellar of Bordeaux valued at $8 million grossed $5,080,817, the company said yesterday.
 The sale, held Friday and Saturday at the Four Seasons restaurant, featured what Morrell, which has a store and wine bar in Rockefeller Center, had advertised as the largest private Bordeaux wine collection ever to reach the American auction block. Morrell sold 1,775 -- about 75 percent -- of 2,384 lots, which totaled 23,369 bottles. 
 The highest-grossing wine was a jeroboam (a giant bottle containing the equivalent of six regular bottles) of 1961 Chateau Petrus, a Pomerol. It was estimated at $28,000 to $35,000 and fetched $28,750, including the 15 percent buyer's premium. Close behind was a six-magnum lot of 1961 Chateau Latour, which was estimated at $18,000 to $22,000 and sold for $24,150.
The sale, heavily publicized, was viewed internationally as the most important of New York's autumn wine-auction season and a possible index of the market for fine and rare Bordeaux at a time of economic downturn. The outcome seemed to offer mixed signals.
Morrell's managing director, Nikos Antonakeas, would not identify the consignor. But three wine industry sources identified him as Georges Marciano of Beverly Hills, Calif., a designer and a founder of Guess? Inc., the jeans company. The sources said Mr. Marciano had offered the cellar to several auction houses. Mr. Marciano could not be reached for comment.
These houses, the sources said, had declined to accept the collection, despite its pristine status, because Mr. Marciano had asked them to buy it outright for about $7.4 million, and they had been unwilling to accept the risk of not recovering their investment. Mr. Antonakeas said Morrell did not buy the cellar, and declined to say if there had been an intermediary. 
Numerous lots were sold at, or slightly above, their low estimates. So many lots of Chateau Mouton-Rothschild and Petrus, among others, went unsold in Saturday's morning session that Jeff Zacharia, the president of Zachys, a wine emporium in Scarsdale, N.Y., said Morrell had partly mismanaged the sale.
Too many young Bordeaux from the 1990's were offered at a time when the market could not absorb them, Mr. Zacharia said. Morrell, he said, should have offered them gradually over a span of time. 
Zachys, he acknowledged, has a stake in public perceptions of the current value of Bordeaux in the secondary market because it has scheduled independent auctions, first in October and then in December. Zachys is a former partner of Christie's in Manhattan.
Mr. Antonakeas said he was pleased with the outcome and not worried about the unsold wines, because there is always a next time. They might turn up, he said, at future Morrell auctions, possibly beginning Nov. 16. 
Besides wines from 72 Bordeaux properties, Morrell offered bottles from 13 Burgundy estates, 7 California producers, 4 Italian producers, and some vintage port. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RETAILERS (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; AUCTIONS; WINES 

COMPANY: GUESS? INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: MORRELL & CO 

TICKER: GES (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (82%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (82%)

PERSON: GOLDBERG, HOWARD G 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



635 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Congress's Unfinished Business 

 BODY:
Consumed by a possible war with Iraq, Congress is ignoring several urgent domestic priorities. The federal budget is slipping further into the red, but there is no agreement on what to do about it. Indeed, Republicans are sharply divided among themselves on spending. The latest Florida election debacle has failed to dislodge the House and Senate from their impasse on ballot reform. The homeland security measure remains mired in a dispute over the rights of workers in the new department. And the chances of passing legislation on energy, bankruptcy and a patients' bill of rights are slipping away each day. 
 Budget battles are as inevitable as elections. But this year the framework is defined by a widespread refusal in Washington to accept the obvious. The United States cannot wage a war, cut taxes and pay for the programs that Americans want without throwing the federal budget into deeper deficit. The $5 trillion surplus has vanished. Signs of budget paralysis are everywhere. Senate Democrats cannot rally a majority behind a budget resolution for next year. In the House, Republicans cannot agree on a spending bill covering education, health and labor. The reason is that the tight budget constraints demanded by President Bush are forcing cuts in the education programs that were at the heart of his own "Leave No Child Behind" initiative. 
 The actual size of the budgetary dispute is small. The White House wants to spend $759 billion on military and domestic discretionary programs in the next fiscal year, which starts Oct. 1. The Democrats want to spend $768 billion. Mr. Bush argues that this $9 billion difference is worth a veto threat and a fight with Congress. But his argument is undercut by a comment from Lawrence Lindsey, the president's chief economic policy adviser, who told The Wall Street Journal last week that the $100 billion to $200 billion price tag for a war in Iraq amounted to "nothing" in terms of its impact on the economy.
Sooner or later there will have to be an agreement on the budget, which means that Congress should apply itself to reaching parallel agreements on other issues. On the homeland issue, Republicans seem to have the votes in the Senate to get most of what they want in the bill. But on election reform, Democrats ought to seize on the Florida election problems to push the mandatory reforms in their bill. There seems to be no appetite for compromise on a patients' bill of rights, and the energy and bankruptcy bills are so favorable to business that no tears will be shed if these measures founder.
One long-shot measure that should be considered is welfare reform. A bipartisan coalition in the Senate favors re-enacting the welfare law with enough money for day care and other support for welfare recipients, and without the punitive work requirements and budget cuts in the House version. This group should keep trying. Congress cannot let the drums of war distract from its obligation to ensure fairness for the poorest Americans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); VETO (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); TAX LAW (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



636 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Dry Towns Find That Temperance and Business Do Not Mix 

BYLINE:  By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: WILLINGBORO, N.J., Sept. 20 

 BODY:
For more than 200 years, from the Methodist settlers who feared the devil to the post-war suburban pioneers who feared falling property values to the just plain fearful parents of the recent past, the people in this town have repeatedly agreed: no liquor.
 No bars. No package stores. No glasses of beer served at the two pizza parlors in town, the two Chinese takeout joints and the single Caribbean cafe. 
 And Willingboro is hardly alone. Most of New Jersey's 43 dry towns are here in the southern part of the state, which is dotted with old summer resorts founded by teetotaling Protestants who purposefully turned their backs on the wet temptations of New York and Philadelphia.
But now that old dry rigor is being shaken by the hard truths of economics and taxes, which may yet make wets out of many of the region's longtime prohibitionists.
In November, Willingboro residents will vote on a referendum to allow alcohol to be sold by the glass in restaurants along State Route 130, the once-vibrant corridor between Philadelphia and New Brunswick that is now so decrepit along some stretches that muffler shops are the high-end businesses.
The move is inspired by the developers of one of the town's two defunct shopping centers, who maintain that the price of success is the presence of brand-name restaurants. 
And the national restaurant chains will not come if they cannot get liquor licenses, said Stephen R. Jaffe, a partner in Renewal Realty, the redevelopers of the former Willingboro Plaza, now hopefully renamed Town Center.
"We want to attract the family-style, theme-type restaurants that will bring the kind of business that happens in a vibrant, 24-7 community," Mr. Jaffe said.
In other words, an Applebee's, the town's leaders say, or a TGI Friday's or -- dare they aim so high? -- an Outback Steakhouse.
The idea that a restaurant could spark economic development is hardly confined to Willingboro, a town of 35,000. Other towns in South Jersey are looking to throw off their dry pasts and are seeking a new, alcohol-connected future.
"We have been receiving a number of phone calls from dry towns on what the procedure is to go wet," said David N. Bregenzer, counsel to the director of the state's Division of Alcoholic Beverage Control. "Whether they go through with it or not is something that we'll just have to wait and see."
A developer in Linwood, a town of 7,000 just west of Atlantic City, has until Monday to collect the 427 signatures needed to get an alcohol sales question on the November ballot. It is the only way to anchor a large office project with a fancy restaurant, town leaders say.
"There's a number of restaurant operators who are willing to come down from Philadelphia, but they won't because we're a dry town," said Ken Mosca, the city administrator.
"I think most people support the idea, but there are others who have been here for many years who do not. But we could really use the kind of ratable the developer is trying to bring here," he said, referring to sources of tax revenue. 
Gibbsboro is also considering whether to go wet, and Delanco Township has the wet-or-dry question on the November ballot.
"Towns these days are looking for those ratables," said the Delanco town clerk, Janice M. Lohr.
Some dry towns, however, show no inclination to bend.
"Absolutely not," said Henry S. Knight, the mayor of Ocean City, which even prohibits restaurant patrons from bringing their own wine, beer and liquor.
"We were founded in 1879 by four Methodist ministers, and we have the fact that we're dry in all our deeds," Mr. Knight said. "We market ourselves as America's greatest family resort, and we strive mightily to keep it that way."
Willingboro's voters codified the Colonial era's ban on alcohol in 1960, when the town changed its name to Levittown, in honor of William J. Levitt, the builder who peppered the farmland west of Route 130 with hundreds of cookie-cutter houses. (A few years later, the town changed its name again to Willingboro.) 
"South Jersey's below the Mason-Dixon line, and it's not the South, but it's not like any place else, either," said Herbert J. Gans, the Columbia University sociologist whose pioneering book on modern suburbia, "The Levittowners," described his experience living here, at 15 Sudberry Lane, for several years during the 1950's.
"They were mostly young people who had put all their money into their homes and they were nervous as hell about anything that could reduce their property values," Dr. Gans said.
The town again rejected alcohol sales, by a mere 100 votes, in a 1997 referendum, when many church leaders, including the Rev. Joe Bass of Alpha Baptist Church, preached against approval.
But this time Mr. Bass said he would relent and vote in favor of allowing alcohol to be served, because he feared that a divided town would hamper an attack on what he sees as the real problem.
"The issue is not adult drinking, the issue in America today is about teenage drinking," Dr. Bass said. 
"I think we should be putting our energy into stopping that problem," he said, "and if we are divided on this issue, we will fail."
But the Rev. J. Evan Dodds Sr., pastor of the United Methodist Church of the Good Shepherd, on Levitt Parkway, said that he would preach against the change, despite some pleas that he not try to influence his flock.
"They are talking about alcohol as the salvation of this town," Mr. Dodds said. "Well, I object to the notion that alcohol can be the salvation of anything."
The proposed law would allow the sale of alcohol by the glass only in restaurants where most space is devoted to food service.
"In other words, no bars," said Lavonne Bebler Johnson, the deputy mayor of Willingboro, who says she hopes that at least two restaurants will move into the new Town Center. Burlington County College is occupying a new $2.5 million classroom and laboratory annex there, and the township has already built a new $7.6 million library nearby.
These attractions, and alcohol sales, might make the Town Center what the old Willingboro Plaza once was, said Robert B. Stang, a developer who is Mr. Jaffe's partner in Renewal Realty.
"When Bill Levitt built the Willingboro Plaza, it was the center of the town," Mr. Stang said. 
"Kennedy spoke there and Nixon spoke there, everyone went on their first date at the theater there."
Putting the new library at the Town Center helped create a new focus for the town, Mr. Stang said, but it needs more shops to draw crowds, who might be looking for a place to have a nice meal.
"Having a restaurant with a liquor license with catering establishment is precisely what we need to round it off," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. J. Evan Dodds Sr., left, opposes alcohol sales in Willingboro, N.J. Stephen R. Jaffe, a developer, says allowing them will attract restaurants. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B4) Map of New Jersey shows the location of Willingboro: Willingboro is among the 43 dry towns in New Jersey. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (89%); REFERENDUMS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); SUBURBS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (77%); RETAILERS (77%); BEER & ALE (77%); BEVERAGE PRICES (77%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXHAUST REPAIR SHOPS (72%); RESORTS (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; SALES 

COMPANY: OSI RESTAURANT PARTNERS LLC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%)

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; DODDS, J EVAN SR (REV); JAFFE, STEPHEN R 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) WILLINGBORO (NJ); NEW JERSEY; GIBBSBORO (NJ); DELANCO TOWNSHIP (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



637 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Lights, Camera, Action -- Cut! 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 21 

 BODY:
Jim Bosche awoke at 3:30 a.m. in his fourth-floor downtown loft one day last spring to find a white-hot light flooding through his bedroom blinds, the kind of intense beam seen in depictions of alien abduction.
 Fifteen feet outside his window, a man in a cherry picker was shining a spotlight directly into his bedroom to provide reflected light for the filming of a movie based on the British mini-series "The Singing Detective." 
 "I wanted to find the executive producer and do the same thing to him, while screaming loudly and running various types of machinery in his yard," Mr. Bosche said. "I felt invaded and violated." 
Until four years ago, when the first few long-vacant commercial buildings in historic downtown were converted to residences, Hollywood studios and production companies had almost free rein in filming, especially at night and on weekends, when the area emptied of workers. But now the downtown core, a 24-square-block zone that has portrayed other cities in countless films and television shows, has about 2,000 residents, and some are complaining loudly about inconsiderate crew members, monopolized parking, traffic jams and the noise and lights of night filming.
Similar problems are cropping up in other cities, most notably Vancouver, British Columbia, and Toronto, which have used tax incentives and the lure of lower costs, to gain a big share of film-production revenue.
In Los Angeles, the most movie-linked city, the more the downtown area grows and establishes its own identity, the harder it becomes to use it as a stand-in for other places.
"Everyone agrees revitalizing downtown is important, but we need to remember that the production of filmed entertainment and moviemaking made L.A. and is vital to its future," said Morrie Goldman, vice president of the nonprofit Entertainment Industry Development Corporation.
"Downtown is our New York, our Chicago, our San Francisco, our gritty urban area," Mr. Goldman said. "It's our science fiction future. We have a real challenge to make sure we keep downtown accessible." 
Last year, there were more than 27,435 days of filming in Los Angeles County, for movies, television shows, commercials and music videos, a decline of 18 percent from the peak of 33,328 in 1997, according to the development group. Out of that production-day total, a third were in the downtown area of about four square miles, which includes the historic core.
Film production brings the city $30 billion a year, the entertainment development group estimates.
"This is a bad time for this because we're losing so much filming to other locations," said Kristen Wagner, a freelance location manager, of the dispute. "I think it'll work out, but this is a period of adjustment, and it has to be handled delicately. Fighting is bad for both sides, especially ours."
No neighborhood in the country has more filming than this city's historic downtown, especially around the Old Bank District at Main and Spring Streets, where film production of some kind takes place almost weekly. Most residents, Mr. Bosche included, recognize the value of such production and want it to continue.
"It's a question of finding a balance of interests," said Brady Westwater, a supporter of downtown and soon to be living there. "Filming just needs to be moderated so it doesn't inconvenience residents unnecessarily."
The development group has the job of balancing those interests, and residents say it favors the interests of the film industry it was formed to promote. It is not legally required to notify residents about filming, but has assumed the responsibility of doing so -- inconsistently, residents say. With 150 film productions a day to oversee, the development group acknowledges that more needs to be done to keep up with the changes downtown.
"People are moving into these lofts," Mr. Goldman said. "We may think a building is commercial and not know people are living in them." 
Residents say gaps in notification are only part of the problem. They contend that other rules, for example not filming between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m., are sometimes ignored.
"They say they'll be done at 10, but they don't start breaking down until then," said Michelle Chin, a downtown resident. That could mean another hour if not more of activity.
With mounting pressure from downtown residents, the development group is taking heat from the Los Angeles County district attorney and the auditor-controller, who are investigating what they say is the possible misuse of public money by the organization. At issue is the group's spending to promote Los Angeles to producers, using $40,000 for tickets to Los Angeles Laker games, concerts and other events. In four years, it has also contributed about $200,000 to local politicians and $10,000 to the campaign against secession of the San Fernando Valley from the city of Los Angeles.
"We're a private corporation, not a public agency," Mr. Goldman said. "We feel once we've worked on these issues with the D.A.'s office, this matter will be resolved quickly and amicably."
Janice Wood, a public works commissioner, says she wants to work with the development group to improve coordination with residents, the city, property owners and the production companies.
"No one's the bad guy here," Ms. Wood said. "We need a technological solution. Right now the E.I.D.C. and the city communicate by fax. That's a pretty low level for something this complex."
A big test will come this fall, as eight big-budget features start production, the most activity in years.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some residents are losing sleep over filming in downtown Los Angeles. They complain that movie crews are too intrusive in the area, which often doubles for other cities. Michelle Chin lives across the street from the old Farmers and Merchants Bank, said to be the most filmed spot in Los Angeles. Above, tubing from a mobile air-conditioning unit at a movie location. (Photographs by Gerard Burkhart for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); TRENDS (70%); MUSIC (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (65%); MOVIE FILMING (56%) MOTION PICTURES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; PARKING; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); LIGHTING; NOISE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES; TELEVISION; TAX CREDITS; FINANCES 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (69%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



638 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Lower Manhattan Business Aid 

BYLINE:  By Joseph P. Fried (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 State officials have announced a $10 million program to help small Lower Manhattan businesses pay to train employees. The program provides up to half of the companies' costs, with a maximum of $125,000 per business and $4,000 per employee. Businesses from 14th Street to the Battery with fewer than 500 workers are eligible, according to the Empire State Development Corporation, which is administering the program. Requirements and other information are available at (800) 456-8369 and at www.nylovessmallbiz.com. Joseph P. Fried (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE TRAINING (90%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) LABOR; VOCATIONAL TRAINING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



639 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

U.S. Is Readying Forces For Possible Iraq War
Mobilizing for a possible attack on Iraq, American commanders have taken many steps to prepare and deploy their forces, Defense Department and military officials say. But the early steps have been carefully planned not to interfere with the Bush administration's campaign to build diplomatic and political support. In one of the most significant steps, elite Special Operations troops have been told to separate from the military temporarily and to join C.I.A. units, allowing the Pentagon to maintain that no uniformed combat forces were in action. A1

More Arrests in Pakistan
At least two Algerian men suspected of being members of Al Qaeda were arrested in joint raids by American and Pakistani officials in Karachi, Pakistani intelligence officials said. Ten men believed to be Arabs were reported to have been arrested trying to cross into Pakistan. A14

Schroder Wins in Germany
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder clung to power after Germany's elections, but with a tiny majority and a great debt to his coalition partner, the Greens, and their leader, Joschka Fischer, the foreign minister and the most popular politician in Germany. Mr. Schroder's Social Democrats were hurt in the last days of this bitter campaign by the reported remarks of his justice minister, comparing President Bush's tactics on Iraq to those of Hitler. A1

Thousands Rally for Arafat
Thousands of Palestinians demonstrated across the West Bank and Gaza in support of Yasir Arafat, defying Israel's efforts to leave him powerless in his largely leveled compound. Four Palestinians were shot and killed by Israeli troops trying to enforce curfews. A3

New Immigrant Surge to Italy
Nearly a week after a crowded boat carrying Liberian immigrants sank near the shore in Capo Rossello, Sicily, the number of dead reached 36 and officials believed the toll would still rise. More and more foreigners are pouring illegally into southern Italy from northern Africa, mingling with the tides of people coming from Eastern Europe and elsewhere. But they come at grave risk. A1

NATIONAL A16-22

Inquiry on Qaeda Aide Is Seen as Flawed
Before Sept. 11, the Central Intelligence Agency failed to scrutinize information adequately about Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, a leader of Al Qaeda now believed to have been a central planner of the attacks. The criticism about the case was just one element in a series of reports and hearings that provided a detailed portrait of the way agencies might have uncovered the plot. A1

California Law on Stem Cells
Gov. Gray Davis of California signed a law that allows research on stem cells that come from fetal and embryonic tissue. The bill is meant to encourage the type of research that the Bush administration limited. A22

Boston Airport's New System
Logan Airport will install scanners that can check the authenticity of hundreds of kinds of driver's licenses and passports, check the bearers' names against government "watch lists" and generate lists, with photos, of whose document was checked and at what time. The system will initially be used only on the 10,000 people who work at the airport. A16

Two Women in Hawaii Race
Hawaii voters all but ensured that the state will have its first female governor, picking two women to compete in November. Lt. Gov. Mazie Hirono won by a razor-thin margin to carry the Democratic banner against Linda Lingle, a Republican. A22

Battered Spouses Project
Sheila Mandt, a Salvation Army worker, created a statewide quilting project in Virginia to bring together victims of abusive spouses in need of a mutual sign of perseverance. A16

OBITUARIES B8

EDUCATION

Minority Students on the Rise
The number of minority students attending American colleges and universities jumped 48 percent in the 1990's, according to a study by the American Council on Education. Despite the greater numbers of minority students in college, blacks and Latinos lagged behind whites and Asian-Americans in graduating. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Conclusion of Louima Case Leaves Lingering Question
The Abner Louima case ended without resolving one of the biggest questions of the five-year legal ordeal: the identity of the second officer in the Brooklyn police station bathroom where Officer Justin Volpe redefined police brutality on an August morning in 1997. A1

Drill to Be Held at A-Plant
Workers at the Indian Point 2 nuclear power plant in Buchanan, N.Y., will try to demonstrate just how prepared they are for a nuclear accident during an elaborate exercise. B1

Dry Towns Reconsider Status
Residents of Willingboro, N.J., concerned about economic woe, will vote in November on a referendum to allow alcohol to be sold. The town has been dry for more than 200 years, and is one of many in the state undergoing similar transformations. B1

ARTS E1-8

'West Wing' Is Top Drama
"The West Wing," NBC's dramatic series about a fictional White House, won its third consecutive Emmy as best drama, defeating HBO's "Six Feet Under," at the 54th annual Primetime Emmy awards in Los Angeles. "Friends," the NBC series that has been nominated four times for best comedy, won the award after nine seasons. E1

Dance Awards Given
Pina Bausch, a German choreographer, Yasmeen Godder and Ohad Naharin, Israeli choreographers, the Wooster Group, and Annie-B Parson and Paul Lazar were awarded creator-choreographer awards at the 18th Annual New York Dance and Performance Awards ceremony. The awards, Bessies, are the dance equivalent of Oscars and Tonys. E3

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

MEN & HEALTH F1-10

A Death Rate Discrepancy
Researchers and health officials are asking why many black men die younger than they should of diseases that should not be so deadly. F1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Tyco Board Knew of Loans
The board of Tyco International has said it was unaware of the extravagant pay packages and loans given to the company's top executives, but minutes of the board's compensation committee show that the group knew of many of the payments for months before they were disclosed. A1

Sprint to Sell Yellow Pages
Sprint agreed to sell its yellow pages business to R. H. Donnelley, which published the first yellow pages directory in 1886, for $2.23 billion. C1

Qwest Overstated Revenue
Qwest Communications, which faces criminal and regulatory investigations of its accounting, said that its accounting on its fiber optic network overstated revenue in 2000 and 2001 by as much as $1.48 billion. A22

KaZaA Finds Internet Partner
The operator of the KaZaA music-swapping service plans to announce a partnership with one of Europe's big Internet access providers. C2

The online services trying to sell music over the Internet are encountering a labyrinth paved with quicksand. C1

Peregrine Files for Bankruptcy
Peregrine Systems, a maker of business software, said that it had filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and said it would sue Arthur Andersen for at least $250 million over accounting irregularities. C11

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Decision time on the Everglades; Congress's unfinished business; Verlyn Klinkenborg on fall's arrival.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E4
TV Listings E7
Crossword E4
Weather D10
Metro Diary B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CURFEW (69%); SHOOTINGS (64%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (62%); DRIVERS LICENSES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); GERMANY (93%); ITALY (90%); LIBERIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



640 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Again, Bavaria's Favorite Is Germany's Runner-Up 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: MUNICH, Monday, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
The beer is still flowing here, as it always does during the Oktoberfest. But there were long faces behind the foam as Bavarians watched their popular premier, Edmund Stoiber, fail in his bid to unseat Chancellor Gerhard Schroder.
 Though the margin was paper thin, the post-mortem in Stoiber country had begun. 
 Supporters of Mr. Stoiber, 60, said his conservative alliance had badly damaged Mr. Schroder, cutting his coalition's majority in the lower house of Parliament to a bare handful of seats. They noted bitterly that Mr. Stoiber fell short of a governing coalition largely because of the dismal showing of his expected partner, the Free Democratic Party. 
In a postmidnight speech to supporters here, a hoarse Mr. Stoiber tacitly conceded defeat, but pledged to make a comeback. "If we can't form this government," he said, "the Schroder government will only be able to govern for a very, very short time."
A victory by Mr. Stoiber would have banished a stubborn bit of conventional wisdom in Germany: that a politician from this proud, southern state cannot be elected chancellor.
Bavaria, the thinking goes, is different from the rest of Germany -- a land with its own dialect, customs and dress. 
It seemed as though Mr. Stoiber, a native son and lifelong resident of Bavaria, might appeal to a broader array of German voters. A competent administrator, he presided over an era of growth that turned Bavaria into an economic star in a country that desperately needs one.
"He was really the best chance we ever had," said Alois Gluck, a senior official of Mr. Stoiber's party, the Christian Social Union, which backed him in its alliance with the larger Christian Democratic Union. "He did such a great job in Bavaria. He would have been able to unite all of Germany."
In the nine years that Mr. Stoiber has governed Bavaria, it has become a magnet for high-technology companies. That, combined with Mr. Stoiber's traditional social policies, has led commentators to call Bavaria the land of "laptops and lederhosen." Unemployment is rising, but at 5.9 percent, it remains well below the national average of 9.9 percent.
Mr. Stoiber's popularity here was resoundingly confirmed. His party, which has governed Bavaria with an absolute majority since 1962, won a projected 62 percent of the Bavarian vote -- its widest margin ever.
But Mr. Stoiber was unable to translate that success into victory on the national stage. In the final weeks of the campaign, his theme of economic competence -- and his relentless criticism of Mr. Schroder's economic policies as having failed -- was repeatedly derailed by events outside his control.
First, the calamitous floods in eastern Germany allowed Mr. Schroder to respond like an energetic leader. Then the chancellor declared he would not support an American military strike on Iraq, injecting foreign affairs into an election that had been dominated by talk of unemployment.
Mr. Stoiber never developed a convincing response to Mr. Schroder's statements on Iraq. 
In their post-mortem, Mr. Stoiber's supporters had some harsh words for the Free Democrats, who they had hoped would give them the margin for victory. The party won barely more than 7 percent of the vote after its deputy chairman, Jurgen Mollemann, alienated voters with anti-Israeli remarks. "It's a terrible shame that Mollemann wrecked all our efforts," Mr. Gluck said.
But even Mr. Stoiber's backers acknowledged that he was an uninspiring candidate. A stiff man in a three-piece suit, Mr. Stoiber projected the image of a stern exam proctor. Mr. Schroder, with his easy, gregarious manner, comes off like the most popular boy in class.
"Stoiber is sort of a stereotype of the ugly German," said Bela Onken, 31, an investment banker who admires Mr. Stoiber but voted for the chancellor. "Schroder is the more laid-back, cool German."
At the party's headquarters, the waiters handed out bottles of beer from Mr. Stoiber's hometown, Oberaudorf, emblazoned with his face. Although he took a swig, Mr. Stoiber's supporters noted that he did not really like beer.
In some ways, that sober image was what made Mr. Stoiber attractive to Germany's conservatives. They recall the last major candidate to come out of Bavaria: Franz Josef Strauss, who failed in his effort to unseat a left-of-center chancellor, Helmut Schmidt, in 1980.
Mr. Strauss, who was Mr. Stoiber's mentor, is credited with laying the foundation of Bavaria's modern economy. Despite that achievement, Mr. Strauss was unable to overcome the belief that he was reactionary -- and a bit of a rube.
Those adjectives scarcely apply to Mr. Stoiber. He ran a studiously middle-of-the-road campaign, eschewing controversy, bold statements or anything else that would invite comparison to Mr. Strauss. But he has two of the traits that made some Germans outside Bavaria suspicious of Mr. Strauss: he is conservative and, like many Bavarians, a Roman Catholic.
Despite the outcome, members of Mr. Stoiber's party are keeping alive their hope for a Bavarian chancellor.
"To say, 'I'm from Bavaria' is not as exotic as it once was," Mr. Gluck said. "We are Germans, too." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%) ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: CONSERVATIVE ALLIANCE (57%); FREE DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (90%) LANDLER, MARK; STOIBER, EDMUND; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAVARIA, GERMANY (97%) GERMANY (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002 



641 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: INTO THE WOODS WITH: EDWARD O. WILSON; 
A Wild, Fearsome World Under Each Fallen Leaf

BYLINE:  By JAMES GORMAN 

DATELINE: CONCORD, Mass. 

 BODY:
Dr. Edward O. Wilson, Pellegrino university research professor and honorary curator in entomology of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University, winner of two Pulitzer prizes and scientific honors too numerous to recount, is on his hands and knees, pawing in the leaf litter near Walden Pond.
 He eases into a half-sitting, half-reclining position and holds out a handful of humus and dirt. "This," he says, "is wilderness." 
 Just a dozen yards from the site of Thoreau's cabin Dr. Wilson is delving into the ground with a sense of purpose and pleasure that would instantly make any 10-year-old join him. His smile suggests that at age 73, with a troublesome right knee, he still finds the forest floor as much to his liking as a professor's desk. 
These woods are not wild; indeed they were not wild in Thoreau's day. Today, the beach and trails of Walden Pond State Reservation draw about 500,000 visitors a year. Few of them hunt ants, however. Underfoot and under the leaf litter there is a world as wild as it was before human beings came to this part of North America.
Dr. Wilson is playing guide to this micro-wilderness -- full of ants, mites, millipedes and springtails in a miniature forest of fungal threads and plant detritus in order to make a point about the value of little creatures and small spaces. If he wrote bumper stickers, rather than books, his next might be "Save the Microfauna" or "Sweat the Small Stuff."
He begins his most recent book, "The Future of Life," with a "Dear Henry" letter, talking to Thoreau about the state of the world and the Walden Pond woods. 
"Untrammeled nature exists in the dirt and rotting vegetation beneath our shoes," he writes. "The wilderness of ordinary vision may have vanished -- wolf, puma and wolverine no longer exist in the tamed forests of Massachusetts. But another, even more ancient wilderness lives on." 
In their world, centipedes are predators as fearsome as saber-toothed tigers, ants more numerous than the ungulates of African plains. And, in contrast to the vast preserves required by the world's most revered megafauna -- grizzlies and elephants, jaguars and condors -- maintaining biodiversity among the little creatures, shockingly rich in unexplored behavior and biochemistry, can be done on the cheap, in relatively tiny patches, as small as a few acres, around the world.
Dr. Wilson is by no means turning from the grand plans for conservation. Indeed, he has suggested that 50 percent of the globe ought to be reserved for nonhuman nature. But he is a realist, and, as he describes himself, "a lover of little things." 
He has been turning over logs and rocks looking into the world of insects and other tiny creatures since he was a boy in Alabama and Florida. And he has not stopped. During the walk, he talks enthusiastically about a coming field trip to the Dominican Republic to investigate ants there, and about the publication this fall of a book-length monograph on the genus Pheidole describing all 625 species of ants, including 341 new to science. 
Researchers tend to share a kind of acquisitive passion to see, touch, grasp the world. Nothing passes without comment. As he strolled along the shore of Walden Pond, on the way to the woods, Dr. Wilson spotted a butterfly and interrupted his discussion of the sizes of reserves needed for mammals, reptiles and amphibians, complete with references and citations to scientific studies. 
When the butterfly landed on the beach, Dr. Wilson stopped, leaning forward like a heron on the hunt, and peered at it. "It's hard to identify," he said. "It's a very beat-up little butterfly," probably the variety called a question mark, because of the design on its wings. 
Having reached the woods and having begun to talk about what lay under the surface of the forest floor, he held the crumbled leaf litter and humus in his hand as if he were savoring what lovers of certain wines call the "gout de terroir," or taste of the soil, a certain earthy specificity that the wine owes to the ground, not the grape.
"When I go on a field trip," he said, "providing you can get me up to the edge of a natural environment, I usually don't go more than a hundred yards or so in, because when I settle down immediately I start finding interesting stuff."
"This ground," he said, "we see it as two-dimensional because we're gigantic, like Godzilla. When you just go a few centimeters down, then you're in a three-dimensional world where the conditions change dramatically almost millimeter by millimeter. In one square foot of this litter you're looking at into the tens of thousands of small creatures that you can still spot with your naked eye."
The ground was drier than usual, and Dr. Wilson speculated that the drought might have affected insects. Some he had hoped to see were not there. "If we looked long enough," he said, breaking open several rotting acorns, "we would find entire colonies of very small ants living in an acorn."
As he moved on, from log to log, he uncovered relatives of cave crickets, predatory rove beetles, termites, several varieties of ants, spiderlings, beetle larvae -- not quite in the abundance he had hoped for. Still, the small wilderness was teeming. 
"The exact perception of wilderness is a matter of scale," he writes in "The Future of Life," going on to say that "microaesthetics" is "an unexplored wilderness to the creative mind." But he also notes that while microreserves are "infinitely better than nothing at all, they are no substitute for macro- and megareserves." He continues, "People can acquire an appreciation for savage carnivorous nematodes and shape-shifting rotifers in a drop of pond water, but they need life on the larger scale to which the human intellect and emotion most naturally respond." 
Dr. Wilson is no sentimentalist, about nematodes or people. His proposals for microreserves are practical and hard-headed. The idea is fairly simple. While areas of nearly 25,000 acres are needed to have a good chance at preserving most large forms of life, plants and insects can sometimes be preserved in plots of 25 or even 2.5 acres. 
In the Amazon, for instance, Dr. Wilson said, where the land is being savaged, "You'll see hanging on the side of a ravine somewhere a patch a farmer hasn't farmed, one hectare, to maybe 10." Such a small area may not catch the eye of most conservationists, he said, but, he added, "The entomologist and the botanist is likely to say, hold on a minute."
A researcher, he said, may find species not found anywhere else, and such plots can grow, with care and reseeding of the surrounding area. "You can do this in most parts of the world, in most developing countries, where a farmer or village elders would happily take a thousand bucks for you to set aside 10 or 100 hectares and even hire them to help with the reseeding," he said.
But it is not just the developing world where biodiversity can be preserved, bit by bit. City parks may hold small wonders. Even at Walden Pond, in the midst of the Massachusetts suburbs, he said: "Many of the species you find here are new to science. The basic biology of most of these things is poorly known or not known at all." 
In the Walden woods live two relatively unknown ant species in the genus Myrmica. "They've been noticed, but not named or described," he said. As to the nematodes and mites, he said, lifetimes can be spent and careers can be made studying them.
It is not, of course, entomologists, or even weekend naturalists, who need convincing about the richness of the forest floor. And there are many reasons to try to preserve biological diversity at the near-microscopic level and below. There is always potential economic value in new biochemical discoveries. There is real and present economic value in clean air and water, to which the plants and insects and microbes contribute. In fact, Dr. Wilson points out, the life of the planet is built on a foundation of tiny creatures. In ecological systems it is the giants that stand on the shoulders of mites.
Finally, there is the simplest argument of all, that life itself, in all its variations, is astonishing and mysterious, and that humans have a responsibility to preserve it. 
Under one log turned over on our walk, the environment was moist enough to provide a widely varied selections of insects. Dr. Wilson picked up a gooey white worm without a trace of discomfort. "That is a fly larva, a maggot actually," he said. "I don't know the kind of fly. It's very slimy."
Asked if he might be demonstrating the very reason many people do not like to turn over logs and dig under leaves, he laughed. "I'll admit it's an acquired taste," he said. "Don't mistake me, I don't expect legions of people, particularly Americans, going out and seeing how many different kinds of oribatid mites or fly larvae they can find." 
"But," he continued, "they can get a feel, one way or the other, that what's at their feet is not dead leaves and dirt, but a living world with a diversity of creatures, some of which are so strange to the average experience that they beat most of the things you see in Star Wars."
It is not so hard to imagine. Butterfly fanciers are legion. Dragonflies are now attracting watchers with binoculars. "But mainly," he said, "there's got to be some sense of the beauty and integrity and the extreme age of these areas."
At the next and last log, he pointed out a predatory rove beetle, a millipede (a detritovore), a spiderling, a nematode he caught only a glimpse of ("like a very tiny silvery strand"), more ants and a wood cockroach. As he began to describe the thousands of inoffensive species of cockroach throughout the world, a siren went off on a nearby street, a reminder of where he was.
Dr. Wilson looked up from the timeless environment under the log, "That's sure a sound that Thoreau never heard."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Edward O. Wilson examining soil at Walden Pond. "Untrammeled nature exists in the dirt and rotting vegetation beneath our shoes," he writes. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. F1); Dr. Edward O. Wilson, a self-described "lover of little things," exploring the micro-wilderness near Thoreau's cabin at Walden Pond State Reservation in Concord, Mass. (James Gorman/The New York Times)(pg. F4) Chart: "Teeming With Life"Preserving tracts as small as a few acres in developed areas, the naturalist Edward O. Wilson says, is essential to support the ancient miniature wilderness that thrives at ground level. UNDERFOOT IN THE NORTHEASTThis representation shows a typical mix of forest floor inhabitants found in the woodlands from the mid-Atlantic states northward to Maine and beyond but only a small fraction of the variety. SUBTERRANEAN CENSUSIn a section of earth less than a half-foot wide and deep, many hundreds of creatures, even thousands, can populate the layers of leaves and the soil immediately below. This view is more than twice actual size. Chart shows some of the living creatures that live at ground level. (Illustration by Frank Ippolito)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ENTOMOLOGY (90%); ZOOLOGY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); MAMMALOGY (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (74%) FORESTS AND FORESTRY; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: WILSON, EDWARD O (DR); GORMAN, JAMES; THOREAU, HENRY DAVID (1817-62) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) WALDEN POND STATE RESERVATION (MASS)

TITLE: FUTURE OF LIFE, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



642 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: The DNA of a New Industry 

BYLINE:  By Harold Varmus; Harold Varmus, a Nobel laureate in medicine, is president of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and a former director of the National Institutes of Health.

 BODY:
Nearly all scientists are eager to see practical applications of our work. In biology and medicine, recent discoveries have fueled the development of vaccines, drugs and devices that provide enormous benefits to the public's health. Such advances increasingly depend on an active biotechnology sector that can take advantage of basic research.
 But ever since moving to New York three years ago, I have been frustrated by the near absence of a biotech industry in the region. Researchers who have worked in San Francisco, Boston or along the Washington-Baltimore corridor know that biotech companies cluster near concentrations of sophisticated academic research. The faculty at academic institutions are often the founders and advisers of these companies and they increasingly send their graduates to find jobs in this industry -- connections that create productive webs of scientific exchange. But for New York City's biomedical scientists, such entrepreneurial connections can usually be made only with biotech companies hundreds or thousands of miles away. 
 Why is there a lack of biotech development here? Commercial rents are high in New York, but they are just as high in Boston and parts of California. There are many sites in the five boroughs that have the advantages of nearby mass transit, room for expansion and proximity to academic medical centers. Our academic centers may individually generate fewer patents and spinoff companies than does, for example, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, but in the aggregate they have for many years made New York City among the largest recipients of federal funds from the National Institutes of Health. These institutions often work together, their scientists are renowned, their patient populations are unequaled for size and diversity and they are surrounded by a supportive business community.
I think the lack of a strong biotech industry here is largely a matter of historical accident and misperception. New York City is said to be known for other things -- banking, media, the arts -- as though it could not acquire another skill. The city has been labeled as one that does not encourage biotechnology.
Yet the prospects for biotechnology here could change, rapidly and dramatically, if we decided to promote our many strengths. An informal consortium of a dozen research institutions, business and investment experts, and city and state officials convened by the New York City Partnership has now developed a real-estate-oriented strategy for bringing the biotech industry to this region.
The plan proposes development in concentric areas, in three phases. Rapid redesign of space in a few appropriate buildings in downtown Manhattan to form a biotech hub could attract headquarters or information-technology divisions of established companies and even some laboratories. Then, over the next few years, the creation of a citywide ring of commercial laboratory buildings, most near major academic centers, could house both new companies and larger, older firms that serve as anchor tenants. Finally, successful city-based enterprises could expand at suburban locations where some pockets of biotech success already exist.
Even as little as a million square feet and a public investment of perhaps $300 million from city, state and federal sources could have an enormous impact on the prospects for building a vibrant biotech industry by creating a critical amount of new space. This would not only permit more small companies to be established, it would also help attract larger firms that have plans for growth. To draw such firms here will require active solicitation by political and business leaders, tax incentives and flexible zoning policies.
This transformation cannot happen overnight, even with greater public resources. But by placing a new focus on this industry, we can enhance our medical centers and their faculties, increase the city's economic diversity, reinvigorate neighborhoods and make this region a leader in creating benefits from biomedical advances. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (93%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); VACCINES (73%); PATENTS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (66%); HEALTH CARE (65%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (65%); SUBURBS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



643 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Suites Are Increasingly Doing Double Duty

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS 

 BODY:
A growing number of traveling executives are doing more than snoozing or watching pay-per-view movies in their hotel rooms these days. With companies tightening travel budgets as the economy continues to stumble, these travelers are holding business meetings or entertaining clients in their hotel suites instead of renting traditional spaces, hoteliers and corporate-meetings specialists say.
 "People don't want to spend the money to rent an extra room if they don't have to," said Nan Andrews Amish, a trade show consultant in El Granada, Calif. In the technology industry, Ms. Amish said, more and more companies are skipping the expense of a trade show booth at a convention and instead booking a suite in a nearby hotel and inviting clients for private demonstrations or dinners. 
 In addition, hoteliers say, some business travelers hunger for meeting places that seem more like home. "People are less excited about traveling these days, and they're looking for the creature comforts that a suite is likely to offer," said Patrick Anderson, director of sales for the Waldorf Towers in Manhattan, which has 101 suites. Mr. Anderson says that this year he has fielded about 20 percent more requests from guests to hold business functions in their rooms than he did last year.
These spaces are more private, and usually cheaper than renting a separate meeting room, Ms. Amish says. At last November's Comdex show in Las Vegas, a majority of her clients invited important customers to their hotel suites rather than woo them on the trade-show floor. Some gave one-on-one product demonstrations in these spaces. Others turned their suites into lei-strewn Hawaiian luaus or served beer and chili.
"It's a cost-effective way to make prospects feel special," said Ms. Amish, who estimates that many of her clients spend $300 a night for a typical hotel suite, versus $1,000 or more to rent space at a trade show.
Such suites are typically more colorful than hotel conference rooms. Kathleen Myers, the president of Advanced Practical Thinking Training, a corporate-training company in Des Moines, recently held a reception for co-workers in a luxury suite that was originally designed for Hugh Hefner, the founder of Playboy, in a Chicago boutique hotel. The suite featured a grand piano and three rooms with light dimmers and mirrors on the ceiling. "It definitely added some atmosphere to the event," said Ms. Myers, who this year has stepped up her use of suites for meetings as a cost-cutting measure. "At one point, we all ran around and played with the light dimmers."
At least one company is capitalizing on the demand for such out-of-town meeting spots: the 146-room Hotel ZaZa, which is scheduled to open in Dallas in late October. It will include 13 individually designed 400- to 700-square-foot themed suites, including an Out of Africa Suite with zebra rugs, an open shower and a tented bed, and the Shagadelic Suite, with purple shag carpeting and peep holes that lead to nowhere. A one-night's stay in one of the suites will range from $165 to $300. The hotel's general manager, Tim McEneny, said the suites were especially designed for business travelers who want to entertain clients.
Catering, with food to match the room's theme, will be available. "So many times people go into business meetings and forget where they are because all of the rooms look the same," he said. "You're not going to forget where you are in the Shagadelic Suite."
The homey appeal of some suites has special advantages for some executives. For Gary Johnston, a global brand manager for Stainmaster carpet in Kennesaw, Ga., such a suite afforded the perfect opportunity to showcase his products to a group of consumer-magazine editors in New York in May. Mr. Johnston and his team rented a suite in the Inter-Continental Central Park South and placed swatches of the company's new area rugs and carpeting throughout the rooms.
Then they demonstrated the stain resistance of their carpets by traipsing from room to room and pouring wine and punch on the swatches. "Being in a mini-home-environment setting made the demonstrations much more realistic," he said. "The meetings went over very well."
Of course, not all executives rent suites because of their decor. Many use them for the privacy they afford for sensitive gatherings, from negotiating deals to firing top executives.
There are some drawbacks to holding a meeting in a hotel suite. For instance, Ms. Myers said, it can be an uncomfortable place to meet one-on-one with a member of the opposite sex, "especially if the bed's in view." She recently booked a suite in a Toronto hotel to hold discussions with a male business partner she had never met, and was startled when the door opened to a room with a huge bed in it. "In a moment of panic, I pictured us sitting side by side on the big fluffy comforter for the meeting," she said. But after winding their way past the bed, they were relieved to find an attached sitting room. Since then, however, she has rented rooms only for meetings with women or groups of people.
Even then, there can be privacy issues. "You can often hear somebody going to the bathroom," Ms. Myers said. In addition, she has to keep her room much tidier if she is planning to hold a meeting in it. Once, when a colleague arrived early, she had to dash into her bathroom, yank her undergarments from their perch atop the shower curtain rod and stash them in a drawer.
"If you're not a neat person, this can be a real hassle," she said.
Business executives might want to avoid booking space on the same floor as the presidential suite. Brad Marks, chief executive of Brad Marks International, which recruits well-known executives in the entertainment industry, once had his suite at the Waldorf Towers in New York searched by a pair of Secret Service agents accompanied by German shepherds. Every time a potential recruit came to meet with Mr. Marks, he or she was frisked. "All anybody would tell me was that there was a dignitary staying on my floor," he said. Eventually, Mr. Marks was tipped off by a hotel worker that the dignitary was former President Bill Clinton.
Aside from saving money, reserving a fancy hotel suite for a business meeting has a personal fringe benefit: being able to spend the night in it. On a business trip in Beijing, Ms. Myers remembers basking in the unaccustomed luxury of a suite that offered fresh flowers and a steam-resistant bathroom mirror.
"Even after I took a shower, the mirror was clear," she said. "I've never seen that before."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kathleen Myers, second from right, the president of Advanced Practical Thinking Training, holds a meeting in a hotel suite near Des Moines. (Allen White for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); PAY PER VIEW (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (72%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (70%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: LIGOS, MELINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



644 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 35 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN FALLS. The yen sank to a three-month low against the dollar as expectations mounted that Japan's economic rebound had stalled. In New York, the yen settled at 123.79 cents, up from 123.35 cents on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar, since April 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



645 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Airline Executives Going to Congress to Ask for More Financial Aid 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
Airline executives, facing industrywide losses that could approach $7 billion this year, will ask Congress today for additional financial aid. That would come on top of the $5 billion in cash the government handed out after closing down all air space in the United States after the terror attacks last year.
 Instead of demanding additional cash, however, the executives will go before the House aviation subcommittee to ask the government to pay for the new security measures it has mandated, to continue providing partial insurance coverage and to temporarily repeal a fuel tax if the United States goes to war with Iraq. 
 Consumer groups and others who follow the industry say the government has to make sure that any additional aid is used only to pay for security measures imposed after Sept. 11. Otherwise, the aid could prop up companies that have made bad business decisions in the last several years, they say. 
"Major network airlines have refused to take any responsibility whatsoever for the financial crisis gripping their industry, and have not addressed fundamental cost and productivity problems that are at the root of their problems," said Kevin P. Mitchell, president of the Business Travel Coalition, which is an advocate for business travelers.
Representatives of the industry say they are seeking no favors, only urging the government to pay for security costs that are related to national defense.
"Neither the industry nor its passengers can shoulder any additional taxes or fees," said Michael Wascom, a spokesman for the Air Transport Association, an industry trade group. "The other part of the message is that there continue to be a variety of unreimbursed security costs falling on the airlines that are rightfully a duty of the government."
Although several airline executives have personally lobbied the government to repeal a $2.50-per- flight-segment security tax imposed after the terrorist attacks, Mr. Wascom said his industry association was not asking officials to repeal this tax. The group does, however, want the government to pick up the tab on some recently imposed security requirements: reinforcing cockpit doors, screening catering supplies, checking passenger documents, giving free seats to undercover air marshals and so on.
Mr. Wascom said that strengthening cockpit doors would cost $250 million, for example, but Congress has agreed only to give $100 million to help out. Free seats for air marshals will cost the airlines $200 million this year, said John Heimlich, an economist for the transport association. New postal and freight restrictions will cost $550 million a year, he added, while other security measures will raise costs by $380 million.
As for the $2.50 security tax, the airlines say that the addition of this cost turns off customers because it results in higher overall prices for tickets. Raising it would only make things worse, they say.
Those are all arguments that will be offered today by the group of chief executives, which includes Donald J. Carty of American Airlines, Leo F. Mullin of Delta Air Lines, Richard H. Anderson of Northwest Airlines and Joseph B. Leonard of AirTran Airways.
They face a skeptical audience. Some legislators want to raise the security tax to help finance the Transportation Security Administration, which oversees airport security. At the same time, industry experts have repeatedly warned against bailing out airlines that have failed to control their costs or rein in their expansion.
"I don't think it's the government's job to fix the problems of the airline industry with regard to demand or to cost," said Michael E. Levine, a former airline executive and professor at Yale Law School. "The only job the government has is to ease the impact of its own policing impositions."
In that sense, he said, "there's a case to be made that it's the job of the government to protect citizens; for example, you shouldn't charge the banks specially because robbers target them."
Steven A. Morrison, a professor of economics at Northeastern University, said that "clearly the industry has excess capacity, and this will prolong the process of shedding that excess capacity.
"But on the other hand," he added, "some of the things they're asking for are for costs that have been foisted upon them in the aftermath of Sept. 11."
Right after the attacks, Congress also created the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, which was charged with administering a $10 billion loan guarantee program. The agency gave backing to America West Airlines and conditional backing to US Airways, which has managed to get concession agreements from all its unions while operating under bankruptcy protection. The board is also reviewing an application from United Airlines for a $1.8 billion loan guarantee, but has told the carrier that it has to get more concessions from its labor groups and suppliers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); LOBBYING (79%); HIJACKING (79%); AIRPORTS (79%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); CIVIL AVIATION (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); FUEL TAX (70%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (66%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; INSURANCE; AIRPORTS; TAXATION; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ;AMERICAN AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; AIRTRAN AIRWAYS INC 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: RICHARD H ANDERSON (59%) WONG, EDWARD; MCCARTY, DONALD J; MULLIN, LEO F; ANDERSON, RICHARD H; LEONARD, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (91%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



646 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Wall Street Is in Need Of Some Silver Inside Clouds

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The weak economy, profit warnings from many big companies, falling stock markets abroad and the prospect of war with Iraq helped send the Nasdaq composite index to a six-year low yesterday.
 The two other big stock gauges fell to their lowest levels since the overall market hit a five-year low in July. 
 The Nasdaq lost 36.16 points, or 3 percent, to 1,184.93, its lowest close since September 1996. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 113.87 points, or 1.4 percent, to 7,872.15. It is now just 169.81 points from its four-year low of 7,702.34, reached on July 23. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 11.69 points, or 1.4 percent, to 833.70, and is only 36 points from its five-year low of 797.70, also reached on July 23. 
The major stock indexes in Europe were down 3 percent or more. Brazil's market fell more than 3 percent while other markets had smaller declines.
Microsoft, off 2.2 percent, helped pull all three American indexes lower, while Wal-Mart Stores, down 3.8 percent, was a drag on the Dow and the S.& P. 500.
As stocks tumbled, interest rates moved even lower. Some investors were looking for a refuge in bonds, while others were betting that the economy might slow even more. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note fell to 3.70 percent in late afternoon trading from 3.78 percent on Friday. It was the lowest yield on a government security with a 10-year maturity in more than 40 years, according to the Federal Reserve. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 20/32 , to 10517/32 . The yield on the Treasury's two-year note fell to 1.90 percent from 1.92 percent, matching its record low in August.
The decline in longer-term rates should push 30-year mortgage rates, already at 40-year lows around 6 percent, even lower. That should keep the rush to refinance mortgages and to buy new homes going. But analysts have said that this activity, though welcome, will not be enough to produce a robust recovery.
Among the negative news yesterday was the report that the Index of Leading Economic Indicators, which is intended to give a sense of how the economy will be performing in the months ahead, fell 0.2 percent last month, its third consecutive monthly decline.
In addition, several companies warned that their revenue and earnings would not be as good as expected, adding their names to a growing list of disappointments.
Wal-Mart said its sales this month would increase 4 percent to 6 percent in stores open at least a year, near the lower end of its forecast. That news sent the stock down $2.10, to $52.60. The report also added to worries that consumer spending, which has kept the economic recovery going, might be weakening.
JDS Uniphase, which makes parts for fiber optic equipment, said its third-quarter sales would be $190 million to $200 million, down from an earlier forecast of $210 million. Its stock dropped 27 cents, or 12.6 percent, to $1.87. Nucor, the steel maker, said that profit in the third quarter would be 45 cents to 50 cents a share, well below the consensus forecast of 77 cents a share collected from Wall Street analysts by Thomson First Call. Nucor stock plunged $9.41, or 19.2 percent, to $39.57.
For the companies in the S.& P. 500, Wall Street is forecasting that earnings will grow 8.4 percent in the third quarter, compared with the third quarter of 2001. That is half the growth forecast at the beginning of the quarter. After five quarters of profit declines, earnings inched up 1.4 percent in the second quarter, and investors had hoped that that was a sign there would be much bigger growth in the second half of the year.
The threat of gauges falling to new lows comes as Federal Reserve policy makers are set to meet today to discuss interest rates. A rate cut is not expected, however.
Some professional investors and analysts are worried enough to be calling for another rate cut from the Fed. Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief United States strategist at Lehman Brothers, said in a report yesterday that he remained "concerned that stock markets have been telling us for some time that U.S. monetary policy is too tight." And he said that policy makers should "be concerned that the stock market is heading toward its third consecutive down year," the first time that has happened since World War II.
Just a few months ago, the main worry for American investors was the slowness of the economic recovery and its effect on corporate earnings.
Now that there are more signs that the recovery is weaker than expected and that optimistic earnings expectations for the third quarter are fading, the list of concerns is growing.
"There are some not trivial risks out there," said Bernie Schaeffer, chairman of Schaeffer's Investment Research in Cincinnati. And those risks, he added, "put the burden of proof on the economic fundamentals to prove the bullish case for the stock market, and I don't see it."
There is talk of war with Iraq, which helped send the price of crude oil for November delivery to $30.71 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. That is oil's highest price since February 2001. At the same time, the tension in Israel has heightened with the siege of Yasir Arafat's headquarters in Ramallah.
Japan's financial markets were closed for a holiday yesterday, but when they reopen today, they will be confronted with the aftermath of the spectacular failure of a government bond auction on Friday to attract enough bids for all of the bonds being sold. The failure was another sign of lack of confidence in the government, analysts said. After the bond auction, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi delayed until October his announcement of new proposals to help the economy.
Europe is also having trouble getting its economies going. In Germany, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder won a narrow election victory on Sunday.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.59399.201High Rate1.6101.580Investment Rate1.6391.615Low Rate1.56%1.51%Median Rate1.59%1.56%Total applied $37for,898,414$36,806,817$21Accepted,536,414$18,018,844$1Noncompetitive,390,911$1,205,343

Both issues are dated Sept. 26. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 26, and the six-month bills mature on March 27, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. Investors' worries have grown beyond concern about the pace of recovery. (Associated Press) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C13) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C13) Graph: "A Sinking Feeling"The Nasdaq hit a six-year low, pulled down by fears that profits would falter and oil prices would rise further. Some investors moved to bonds, pushing yields lower. Graph tracks:NASDAQ COMPOSITE10-YEAR TREASURY YIELDCORPORATE EARNINGSOIL PRICE (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Thomson First Call corporate earnings )(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); BRAZIL (92%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE; BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



647 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Family Leave In California Now Includes Pay Benefit 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
Gov. Gray Davis signed a bill today to establish paid family leave to care for a new child or an ailing relative, giving California workers the most expansive family benefit in the nation.
 The law, which business interests say will drive away jobs, will allow virtually any worker to take up to six weeks paid leave to cope with a family emergency. The benefit will be paid solely out of employee contributions. 
 The bill was one of several on Mr. Davis's desk pushed hard by California's powerful liberal-labor coalition. On Sunday, Mr. Davis signed a measure that would permit some stem cell research currently limited by federal law, as well as a package of bills giving patients enhanced rights in disputes with health maintenance organizations.
Political analysts read the governor's actions as an effort to strengthen support among core Democratic groups, who have been lukewarm about Mr. Davis's re-election campaign. Despite spending nearly $20 million this summer attacking his Republican opponent, Bill Simon Jr., Mr. Davis maintains only a slim lead in public opinion polls.
"This is all about shoring up and motivating his base," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a senior scholar in public policy at the University of Southern California. "He has to turn out Democrats, labor, Latinos, women, none of whom are really excited about him. I don't think he can risk angering his base at this point."
The family leave bill was closely watched as a gauge of Mr. Davis's political strategy this fall. Labor activists, who have long been suspicious of the governor because of his history of courting business to attract campaign contributions, said they were pleased with his decision but still unsure where his heart lies.
Mr. Davis signed the bill this afternoon at a children's hospital in Los Angeles, calling it landmark legislation that will aid workers and businesses.
"Californians should never have to make the choice between being good workers and being good parents," the governor said. "This bill will help millions of California workers meet their responsibilities to both their family and their employers."
Organized labor and family rights groups nationwide who have been pushing states to extend the benefit to all workers lustily cheered the governor's action. It is one of the highest priorities of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which calls on other states to enact similar legislation. Lawmakers in 27 others states are considering such measures.
The measure's sponsor, State Senator Sheila Kuehl, said she was uncertain until the weekend whether Mr. Davis would sign it. The bill was heavily amended late in the legislative session to address business concerns and win passage in the Assembly. The bill's original provision for 12 weeks' paid leave was reduced to 6 weeks, and the employer contribution to the state fund that will pay the benefits was eliminated.
The bill also requires workers to use up to two weeks vacation time for family emergencies and caps the benefit at $728 a week.
Ms. Kuehl, who represents the Democratic strongholds of West Los Angeles, Santa Monica and Malibu, said that business opponents were "crying wolf" about the bill's impact on jobs and labor costs in California.
"Their real objection was that they simply did not want workers to take time off, no matter how needy they might be in terms of family care," she said.
But business organizations said the bill was a job killer at a time when the state's economy was slumping and California lawmakers were imposing costly new environmental and labor rules.
The leader of the state chamber of commerce warned that the bill added to a business climate that discouraged job creation.
"We're opposed to a lot of bills, but this is one of the worst," said Allan Zaremberg, president of the chamber of commerce. "When you're the only state in the country with paid family leave and they've tried it in 27 other states and it's failed in each and every one, we see it as a competitive disadvantage in attracting or keeping businesses here."
The California bill broadens a federal measure, the Family and Medical Leave Act, which former President Bill Clinton signed in 1993. That law guarantees the jobs of workers who take time off to care for a child or sick relative, but the benefit is unpaid.
The federal law also exempts businesses with fewer than 50 employees. California's new law sets no size limit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY LEAVE (92%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); FAMILY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (55%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (55%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (54%) LABOR; FAMILY LEAVES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (55%)

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



648 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Economic Indicators Fell 0.2% in August 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
An absence of corporate spending and the worsening expectations of consumers helped push a crucial gauge of economic activity lower for the third consecutive month in August -- a decline that was worse than experts had predicted.
 The New York-based Conference Board reported yesterday that its Index of Leading Economic Indicators dropped 0.2 percent, to 111.8, after falling a revised 0.1 percent in July. 
Analysts had expected an August decline of 0.1 percent. 
 The index measures where the United States economy is headed in the next three to six months. It stood at 100 in 1996, its base year.
The economy is "not getting any thrust from capital spending at this point," said Bill Barker, investment strategy consultant at RBC Dain Rauscher in Dallas.
Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index declined in August, including manufacturers' new orders for nonmilitary capital goods, building permits and the index of consumer expectations, the Conference Board said.
Mr. Barker said consumer spending had held up fairly well in recent months, with purchases of big-ticket items like cars and homes leading the way. He fears, however, that consumer confidence will erode further as the stock market continues to sputter and as increased talk of war with Iraq keeps more people in front of their televisions instead of out shopping.
A Conference Board economist, Ken Goldstein, said the data showed that the "weak recovery could stall, especially if the consumer market starts to slow."
"There is now the threat of a slowdown," Mr. Goldstein added, "because unlike in June or July, the latest decline was widely diffused -- only one of the 10 components had a significant positive contribution."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Leading Indicators"Index of 10 indicators designed to "lead" or predict overall economic activity; 1996 = 100. Monthly ChangeAug.: -0.2%July: -0.1June: -0.2 Graph tracks leading indicators since March 2001. (Source: The Conference Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); NEW ORDERS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); IRAQ WAR (65%); BUILDING PERMITS (53%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD 

TICKER: RY (TSX) (70%); RY (SWX) (70%); RY (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (70%) SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: GOLDSTEIN, KENNETH (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



649 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: STEALTH AND COUNTERSTEALTH; 
U.S. Suspects Ukraine of Selling Radar to Iraq

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
The United States, relying on an analysis of clandestine tape recordings, has concluded that President Leonid D. Kuchma of Ukraine personally approved a plan in July 2000 to sell Iraq an advanced radar system that can detect approaching aircraft without their pilots' knowledge.
 Although there is no definitive proof that the sale was made, the American government has "some indications" that the radar units are now in Iraq, a high-level United States official said. 
 The American conclusion concerning the tapes led the government to suspend a $55 million-a-year aid program to Ukraine 10 days ago pending a review of American policy, the official said. Further measures appear likely once that review is completed. 
The radar equipment's presence in Iraq, if proven, could lead to more severe punishment under American law and the international arms embargo imposed on Iraq by the United Nations.
"We're looking at a range of things in terms of how we engage Ukraine and how we talk to Kuchma," that official said of the policy review. "We're hopeful that it will come to a conclusion in about a week or so that we can make a recommendation for a White House decision."
The radar, nicknamed Kolchuga after the Russian word for chain-mail armor, is a passive radar system, differing from conventional radar that bounces its own signal off an object. 
The Kolchuga system has a complex of four receivers that pick up and coordinate the position of signals emitted by approaching objects. It is billed as capable of detecting aircraft as far away as 500 miles and ground targets up to 370 miles away.
But its strongest selling point, experts say, is its claimed ability to spot even so-called stealth aircraft without being detected. When Ukraine first exhibited the radar at a Jordan arms show in April 2000, it said the system was the most advanced in the world.
Steven Zaluga, a military technology analyst for the Virginia-based consulting firm Teal Group Corporation, said the ability of such passive systems to spot stealth aircraft was overrated, largely because American stealth fighters and bombers emit few or no signals.
Conventional American attack jets do emit signals from altimeters, strike radar transmitters and other devices, he said. The question, he said, is whether the Kolchuga system is sophisticated enough to sift those signals from the cacophony of ordinary airwaves.
"If it's a high-quality system, it would be of some concern," Mr. Zaluga said.
The finding follows a judgment by experts at the Justice Department and elsewhere in the government that a clandestine tape recording -- in which a voice that the United States has concluded is Mr. Kuchma's is heard discussing smuggling the radar system to Iraq -- is authentic and unaltered.
That tape, along with 300 hours of other secretly recorded conversations, was brought to the United States by a onetime Ukrainian presidential security guard, Mykola Melnychenko, who fled his country in 2001. Mr. Melnychenko, an anti-Kuchma campaigner who is a refugee in the United States, gave the original tape to the United States for testing this summer.
The American finding has been relayed to NATO members and to Ukrainian officials, whose response "is mostly a denial that this has happened," the American official said.
In the last five years Ukraine has become the world's sixth-largest arms supplier.
The tape recording is said to document a conversation between Mr. Kuchma and Valery Malev, then the director of Ukraine's arms export agency, Ukrspetsexport. 
According to a public transcript released by the Washington-based Center for Public Integrity, which Mr. Melnychenko says is accurate, Mr. Malev told Mr. Kuchma: "We were approached by Iraq through our Jordanian intermediary. They want to buy four Kolchuga stations and offer $100 million up front."
Mr. Malev suggested that the system be packed in the crates of another Ukrainian company, Kraz, and that Ukrainians with forged passports be sent to Iraq to oversee its installation.
"Just watch that the Jordanian keeps his mouth shut," Mr. Kuchma replied.
"Who is going to detect it?" Mr. Malev replied. "We don't sell much to them, I mean to Jordan." Mr. Kuchma then answered: "O.K. Go ahead."
That apparent go-ahead -- on July 10, 2000 -- came barely five weeks after President Clinton visited Kiev and offered a badly needed show of support for Mr. Kuchma's leadership.
American officials consider the verification of the recording cause enough to temporarily suspend the $55 million in aid given Ukraine under the Freedom Support Act, which finances pro-democracy and economic reform programs in former Soviet states. 
Because that aid is intended to promote Western values, much of it can be restored after Washington completes its review of its policy toward Ukraine.
Other crucial assistance -- for example, aid handed out to help Ukraine dismantle its Soviet-era nuclear programs -- is unaffected by the suspension.
In the longer term, the United States will face the question of how to deal with Mr. Kuchma without damaging Ukraine, a nation of 50 million that is a strategic crossroads between Europe and Asia. 
American ties with Mr. Kuchma have been fraying steadily for a year and a half as his presidency has been marked by corruption scandals and growing authoritarianism. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADAR SYSTEMS (93%); ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); APPROVALS (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (78%); FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (77%); AIRLINES (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); ARMS EMBARGOES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (61%); TERRORISM (60%) RADAR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UKRAINE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); ARMS SALES ABROAD; FOREIGN AID; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; KUCHMA, LEONID D (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); UKRAINE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) IRAQ; UKRAINE

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



650 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Sting of Last Year's Recession Was Not as Mild as Many Think 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
In speeches around the country, Federal Reserve officials have helped turn the phrase mild recession into perhaps the most popular description of the recent downturn. Measured by the output of goods and services, the officials note, the recession that began early last year looks like one of the weakest in decades.
 But in many of the ways that people and businesses feel swings in the economy, the recession has hardly been mild. In some ways, it has been worse than the typical downturn. 
 The Standard & Poor 500-stock index has fallen more than at any point since the deep recession of the 1970's. Pretax corporate profits have dropped more steeply than at any point since the double-dip recession of the early 1980's. The nation's overall employment level has not grown in two and a half years.
This helps explain the problem that will greet those same Fed officials when they gather in Washington today and decide whether to cut the benchmark interest rate once again to encourage new spending. Despite reducing short-term rates to their lowest level in four decades, the Fed has been unable to turn around the economy once and for all.
Instead, the economy looks weaker now than it did in the summer and the possibility of war has created new uncertainty, leaving Fed officials to face the kind of decision they thought was behind them. They can cut the rate for the 12th time since the start of last year, sending a disturbing message to the slumping stock market that the central bank is worried that the economy could get even worse. Or they can leave rates unchanged, as analysts expect, and hope that the earlier cuts are still rippling through the economy.
Many stocks fell sharply yesterday, after a widely followed index of leading indicators, intended to predict the economy's health, fell for the third month. The S.& P. declined 1.4 percent, to 833.70, more than 45 percent below its peak in March 2000.
A recent spate of bad news has raised fears that the unwinding of the late 1990's excesses is taking even longer, and proving more painful, than many economists expected. But the quiet severity of the downturn also contains a silver lining: the economy may already have purged many of its excesses. 
Employment has declined 1.2 percent, or by more than 1.5 million jobs, since March 2001, which was the start of the recession, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the arbiter of business cycles. The decline is slightly worse than the average falloff after the last six recessions, the bureau said.
"In some respects, this recession was not at all mild," said Victor Zarnowitz, a member of the National Bureau of Economic Research's business-cycle committee and an economist at the Conference Board, a research group in New York. "Employment has been quite severely affected."
Employment also grew less quickly in the year before this recession started than it typically had in the past, as companies began realizing that they had expanded too quickly during the boom. Today, the nation's payrolls are no bigger than they were two and a half years ago, even though the population and the economy are larger. (Most economists say the recession ended around the start of this year, but the National Bureau of Economic Research has not yet made a decision.)
As much pain as the large number of layoffs has brought to workers, the cuts could set the stage for a hiring rebound. 
Over the last two years, many businesses have increased revenue and production without hiring workers. The companies have instead become more efficient, thanks to new strategies or new technology. This increase in productivity has allowed the nation's output to grow this year even as employment has dropped.
But as the economy continues to grow -- and most economists expect it to, even if many worry that the growth will be tepid -- companies may find themselves unable to become much more efficient and may be in need of new workers.
"If history repeats, starting sometime this fall or this winter, productivity is going to return to trend," said Robert J. Gordon, an economist at Northwestern University. Managers "are then going to say, 'My God, business is expanding, we've got to fill some of these empty offices.' "
In part, the severity of the recession has been obscured by the relative health of the economy. While the unemployment rate, which is below 6 percent, remains far lower than it did at the end of recessions in the 1980's and '90's, for example, it has still risen significantly from its 30-year low of 3.9 percent in 2000. The increase may also understate the change in the labor market, because many people have dropped out of the labor force in the last two years.
"People's perceptions that this recession is mild probably comes from the levels" of unemployment and other economic measures, said N. Gregory Mankiw, a Harvard economist and another member of the business-cycle committee. "If you look at the changes, it looks like a more normal recession."
There are exceptions. People's income and the value of their houses have continued to rise, and consumers have taken on new debt and increased their spending. But that growth has not been enough to overcome the steep drop in business spending and to get the economy growing fast enough to lift profits, employment and stock prices. Pretax corporate profits have dropped more than 20 percent in the last two years, and many businesses still have more capacity than they can profitably use.
Until that changes, even a rate cut by the Fed could fail to stop the deceptively serious downturn. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Bite Worse Than Its Bark"By the conventional measure of economic growth, the economy appearsto have performed better in the period surrounding the most recent recession than during the previous period. But it has actually been worse in ways that more directly affect workers and businesses. Chart shows:G.D.P.Change over six quarters EMPLOYMENTChange in nonfarm payrolls INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Federal Reserve)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); RECESSION (95%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



651 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Nasdaq Falls to 6-Year Low
The weak economy, corporate profit warnings, falling stock markets abroad and the prospect of war with Iraq helped send the Nasdaq to a six-year low. PAGE C1

Landmark Family-Leave Law
Gov. Gray Davis of California signed a bill establishing paid family leave to care for a new child or an ailing relative, the most expansive family benefit in the nation. PAGE A20

Ukraine Said to Sell Radar
The United States says tape recordings show that Ukraine's leader approved a plan to sell Iraq a sophisticated radar system. PAGE A16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); FAMILY (88%); IRAQ WAR (88%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (87%); FAMILY LEAVE (87%); LEGISLATION (84%); RADAR SYSTEMS (83%); APPROVALS (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) IRAQ (93%); UKRAINE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



652 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Thirsty Cities of Southern California Covet the Full Glass Held by Farmers 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: IMPERIAL, Calif., Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Rarely have so few had their hands on the spigots of so many.
 Here in the Southern California desert, about 400 farmers and the local water authority hold Colorado River water rights that 17 million people closer to the coast desperately want. The two sides are struggling to resuscitate a deal that would sell water from the farms to the cities, but the obstacles are formidable, and time is running out. 
 There is more at risk than just the water now on the negotiating table. Unless there is a deal by the end of the year, the cities stand to lose much more, through an abrupt federal cutoff of 15 percent of Southern California's water supply. 
The situation has elevated the farmers to a position of great power, and they are capitalizing on the moment, demanding more and more from the cities -- beginning with payments of $2 billion over 75 years -- for water the farmers now get for next to nothing.
Besides the money, the farmers are seeking a deal that would not require any crops to be taken out of cultivation and would indemnify them from any environmental damage caused by the loss of water to the nearby Salton Sea. The Salton is the country's second largest saline lake, home to millions of migratory birds.
"They have to make it worth our while," said John Hawk, who farms 1,800 acres of vegetables and hay in the Imperial Valley, a desert land made bountiful by water appropriated from the Colorado.
If a deal cannot be struck, said Dennis Cushman, assistant general manager of the San Diego County Water Authority, a major player in multiparty negotiations intended to win the cities access to the Imperial Valley farmers' water and avert threatened federal sanctions. "The consequences," Mr. Cushman said, "are potentially devastating to the economy and lifestyle of Southern California."
In many ways, what the sides are struggling to disentangle is an anachronism. The farmers of the Imperial Valley have the right to more Colorado River water than some entire states under a water-sharing agreement that dates from 1922, when towns like Imperial were already well established and Los Angeles was a pinpoint on the map. The valley's total is 70 percent of the water allotted to all of California, and six times what is guaranteed to arid Southern California cities, which have never had enough water of their own.
Until recently, the cities' spartan share from the Colorado did not matter much. For decades, California simply overdrew its allotment, relying on vast quantities left unused by Arizona, Nevada and upstream states.
But those states' growth has all but evaporated that surplus, and the federal government has vowed to force California to live within its means. A deal brokered by the Clinton administration in early 2001 gives the state 15 years to scale back its overuse, but it sets a deadline of Dec. 31 this year for the state to show progress.
The Imperial Valley provides a 25th of the country's lettuce, broccoli, wheat, cauliflower and other table crops and, thanks to weather that allows for year-round growing, about a seventh of the country's wintertime table needs.
But the farmers also consume water at about twice the rate per acre of other agricultural districts in California, a rate many times higher than that of arid cities like San Diego and Los Angeles.
About 200,000 acre-feet of water are at issue; that is a small fraction of the valley farmers' staggeringly large allotment of Colorado River water -- some 3.1 million acre-feet per year, out of the state's total allotment of 4.4 million. An acre-foot is the amount needed to cover an acre to a depth of a foot, or 325,851 gallons. 
But those 200,000 acre-feet are vital to California's effort to prove to the federal government and neighboring states that it is serious about weaning itself from decades of overuse of the Colorado. Unless a transfer in that amount from farmers to San Diego can be worked out by Dec. 31, California stands to lose about 600,000 acre-feet through a government-ordered halt to the wink-and-a-nod arrangement that for decades has allowed California cities to draw more than twice as much Colorado River water as they are entitled to.
Among those working feverishly to broker a deal are state and federal officials and water authorities including the Los Angeles-based Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, which serves the 17 million people and is trying to meet the needs of a fast-growing population under water laws that adhere to the principle of first come first served.
"We are not in a position to be held hostage," said Adan Ortega Jr., a vice president for the Metropolitan water district. "But it's fair to say that this has really focused our attention."
Over breakfast in El Centro, the county seat, Larry Gilbert, 62, a third-generation farmer in Imperial Valley, offered the farmers' side.
"You shouldn't be able to steal something from people just because you outnumber them," said Mr. Gilbert, who farms 800 acres in a desert where virtually nothing would grow if it were not for the Colorado River, tapped by Imperial Valley farmers for nearly 100 years.
One reason for the increased pressure now is that a 1998 deal between San Diego and the Imperial Valley collapsed in recent months over environmental concerns about damage to the Salton Sea.
The earlier arrangements for a water transfer have been judged by environmental groups and government agencies to be unsatisfactory because they would have reduced the flow of agricultural runoff into the Salton. A major objective of the more recent negotiations has been to make a transfer without depriving the lake of freshwater runoff.
One formula being negotiated -- one backed by at least $50 million in financial incentives -- would require Imperial Valley farmers to leave as much as 10 percent of their fields fallow, allowing water runoff that would otherwise have been consumed to reach the saline lake.
But that plan, proposed in August by the San Diego County water district, appears to be foundering on farmers' opposition.
 A counteroffer by the farmers' district was on the table yesterday at a meeting in Sacramento. That offer calls for about 2 percent fallowing and larger upfront payments. 
Under Gale A. Norton, the Bush administration's interior secretary, the government has maintained pressure on the parties to make a deal.
One issue that people involved in the discussions described as critically important is whether the Imperial Valley farmers or the Imperial Valley Irrigation District, represented by an elected board responsible to 170,000 people, holds the farmers' primary water rights.
If negotiations with the Imperial Valley district break down, the Southern California water districts might seek a separate deal with the Imperial Valley farmers, based on the argument that it is they rather than the district who own the crucial water rights.
"We view this deadline with extreme seriousness," California's resources secretary, Mary Nichols, said in a telephone interview today, "and we are making every effort to make sure that this deadline is met."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Larry Gilbert showing how he and his fellow farmers in the Imperial Valley tap the Colorado River for irrigation. Crops of one variety or another grow year-round here. (Photographs by Dave Gatley for The New York Times) Chart: "Sharing Water"Southern California is the center of negotiations between Imperial Valley farmers, who have Colorado River water, and cities that need it. River Allotments to States (in millions of acre-feet)3.1 for Imperial Valley farmers CALIFORNIA: 4.4COLORADO: 3.9ARIZONA: 2.8UTAH: 1.7WYOMING: 1.1NEW MEXICO: 0.8NEVADA: 0.3 (Source: Colorado River Water Users Association) Map of Southern California and Mexican border highlighting the Imperial Irrigation District. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER RIGHTS (90%); LAKES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); DESERTS (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); IRRIGATION (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (52%); BIRDS (51%) WATER; IRRIGATION; AGRICULTURE 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (79%) CALIFORNIA; COLORADO RIVER; SALTON SEA (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



653 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: News Analysis; 
McCall's Finances May Hinge on Polls

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
For H. Carl McCall, the key to attracting the big campaign donations he desperately needs to wage a successful campaign for governor could lie in public polls scheduled to be released on Wednesday and early next week.
 Mr. McCall, a Democrat and the state comptroller, needs to show he is within striking distance of his well-financed Republican opponent, Gov. George E. Pataki, to persuade many rich New York business leaders who have been sitting on the fence to write him a check, several Democratic strategists said. 
 "If they don't show they are close, they are not going to get the dough," said one campaign consultant, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
The stakes for the Democrats are high. Mr. Pataki has at least $20 million on hand. A third-party candidate, Tom Golisano, is a billionaire financing his own campaign. He has spent $33 million so far and has pledged to spend as much as $75 million.
By comparison, Mr. McCall had about $2 million on hand as of last Friday, his aides said.
The Pataki campaign in the last week has hit Mr. McCall hard with an attack advertisement in the suburbs that highlights his support for a commuter tax. Mr. Pataki's camp has also barraged Mr. McCall with charges that he has not invested enough of the pension fund he manages in upstate New York, where the battered economy is the main issue.
Mr. McCall's supporters interpret Mr. Pataki's decision to attack Mr. McCall's record as a sign of fear. The daily message coming out of the McCall camp has been one of optimism and momentum. Several of Mr. McCall's aides say privately the campaign's internal polls suggest Mr. Pataki's lead statewide has narrowed to high single digits.
If polls by Quinnipiac University and Marist College over the next seven days confirm that trend, it would help Mr. McCall's fund-raising efforts immensely, several strategists said.
"This next round of numbers will be important in that they can create the perception that -- with party unity, and Golisano, and the general agitation about the economy -- the McCall campaign can be competitive," Lee Miringhoff, the director of the Marist College Poll, said.
One trouble for Mr. McCall is that over the next two weeks, his opponents will begin to buy up the best advertising slots across the state for October and early November. That will drive prices up and could force Mr. McCall into a bidding war for airtime, a bidding war he can ill afford.
Another danger is that Mr. Pataki's aggressive attacks aimed at tarnishing his opponent's image among suburban voters could also depress support for Mr. McCall. Mr. Pataki historically has enjoyed strong support among suburbanites of both parties and most strategists say Mr. McCall must make inroads in the outlying bedroom communities to win the general election.
"It's going to be tougher to get that with the commuter tax hanging around his neck," Richard Schraeder, a Democratic campaign consultant, said. "This is a critical time for Carl to get up in the air and respond to the Pataki attacks."
Few Democratic or Republican political professionals foresee Mr. McCall raising and spending as much as Mr. Pataki, which means the Democrats will have to rely more on old-fashioned get-out-the-vote methods as Election Day nears.
"He's got a pile of money," David Axelrod, a McCall consultant, said of the governor. "I don't think McCall will equal that pile of money."
Despite his bigger campaign treasury, the Republican incumbent is not as well positioned going into the last seven weeks of campaigning as some political experts had predicted a month ago he would be.
The conventional wisdom in August was that the first couple of weeks of September would be good for Mr. Pataki. Not only would he be on television frequently because of the Sept. 11 commemorations, but the Democratic Party was expected to be splintered by a nasty primary between Mr. McCall and Andrew M. Cuomo, the former housing secretary. The governor was also forecast to defeat Mr. Golisano in the primary for the Independence Party nomination, removing him from the campaign.
But Mr. Cuomo dropped out of the race a week before the primary and Mr. Golisano eked out a narrow victory. Final figures released today by the Board of Elections showed Mr. Golisano got 9,572 votes to Mr. Pataki's 9,076.
All this has given some Democrats heart that Mr. McCall might win. The question is, will it also persuade big Democratic donors to open their wallets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); SUBURBS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); TRENDS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (61%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); GOLISANO, B THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



654 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Legal Heavyweights to Help Decide Sept. 11 Fund Appeals 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
For almost a year, the Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund has been defined by only one public face: Kenneth R. Feinberg, the special master in charge of administering it.
 But now Mr. Feinberg is preparing to decentralize. To help him determine how much each victim's family should receive, he has invited 41 retired judges, lawyers and professors to join a novel appellate system that will mediate objections raised by the families and gauge the validity of arguments for economic relief and suffering worth millions of dollars. 
 William H. Webster, the former director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, has been tapped. Nicholas deB. Katzenbach, the former attorney general, has also been asked. So, too, have Arthur R. Miller, the Harvard law professor, and Sheila L. Birnbaum, the head of the products liability department at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. 
By vesting so much potential power in legal luminaries whose credentials "will not be called in question," Mr. Feinberg said that he was ready to rely on other people to help define the fairness and humanity of a multibillion-dollar fund without precedent.
But already, Mr. Feinberg's list has provoked lively debate and controversy as to whether he has chosen the ideal faces of last resort for grieving families fighting for just compensation.
According to several lawyers and scholars who have reviewed the list, there are too many corporate defense lawyers and too many people plucked from Mr. Feinberg's Rolodex of friends, former colleagues and fellow mediators. If anything, Mr. Feinberg's choices may be too qualified, the critics say, to relate to the circumstances and yearnings of the firefighters, bond salesmen and immigrant strivers who died.
"This is not going to be seen as a claimant-friendly list of people," said one lawyer who represents several Sept. 11 families and knows many people on the list.
But according to Mr. Feinberg and his supporters, such complaints are unfounded and driven, perhaps, by a determination to undermine the fund, which has already come under criticism as being a poorly conceived and heavy-handed alternative to litigation.
"The idea that this distinguished group has any agenda other than doing justice to the Sept. 11 victims is just wrong and unfair," said Mr. Feinberg, who provided a copy of the list to The New York Times. "These people have reputations for good judgment, a sense of fairness, credibility."
Under the law that created the fund in late September as part of an airline bailout package, the special master has the authority to "employ and supervise hearing officers" in administering the fund. And under the rules devised by Mr. Feinberg, the special master retains enormous discretion over all aspects of the fund, including the fact that all decisions are final.
So far, most candidates -- officially called "appellate hearing examiners" -- have enthusiastically agreed to participate in what is essentially an unusual, parallel justice system. And while they are entitled to a standard per diem allowance, most of the dozen or so candidates who were interviewed for this article said that they would be honored to work free of charge, and for Mr. Feinberg.
"He has a spectacular reputation," said Lawrence J. Zweifach, a securities lawyer in Manhattan whose sister-in-law is a lawyer in Mr. Feinberg's Washington firm. "I think everyone's been touched by the events of Sept. 11 and is looking for a way to help."
About three-quarters of the proposed examiners are from the New York and Washington areas. Roughly half have worked as mediators or arbitrators, or, like Mr. Feinberg, have been affiliated with the CPR Institute for Dispute Resolution in New York. There are prominent Democrats, like Stuart E. Eizenstat, a deputy treasury secretary in the Clinton administration. There are prominent Republicans, like Mr. Webster. Perhaps a quarter of the people have worked alongside Mr. Feinberg, who has mediated compensation disputes involving the Agent Orange defoliant used in Vietnam and the Dalkon Shield birth-control device, and once was chief of staff to Senator Edward M. Kennedy.
And a good number, according to Pamela S. Falk, a law professor at the City University of New York, have sterling resumes with a "bias toward tort reform who believe that corporations are hurt by large payments to victims."
Some proposed examiners, like Barbara Paul Robinson, an expert in estates and trusts at Debevoise & Plimpton, do not know Mr. Feinberg personally. Others, like David O. Bickart, a law school classmate of Mr. Feinberg's at New York University, know him very well.
"I've never dealt with individual people's personal claims for compensation for their injury, so this is something which would be new and different for me," said Mr. Bickart, an environmental lawyer with Kaye Scholer in Washington. "I know that it's very difficult to safeguard the money and be humane and decent and listen at the same time, but I'm glad he thinks I can do it."
Those who do join Mr. Feinberg have been asked to attend an all-day training session in Washington in October. After that, they will be called upon, as needed, to handle hearings in offices in New York, Washington and other locations convenient to the families.
The examiners may be asked to handle either the appeal of an award that has dissatisfied a family, or a hearing in which a family has an initial opportunity to plead its case -- proceedings that Mr. Feinberg promised would be nonadversarial. Either way, Mr. Feinberg said he would check their recommendations to guarantee consistency.
"I have to be concerned that these esteemed people, even after a day of training, not go in different directions," he said.
So far, most families have shied away from the fund, unsure of its fairness, overwhelmed by its complexity and unwilling to forgo litigation, for now. As of yesterday, only 52 families had been offered awards, ranging from $250,000 to $3.7 million. Thirty-one had accepted, five had requested hearings and the others had not yet responded. The deadline to apply is Dec. 21, 2003.
In the end, Mr. Feinberg says, few families will opt for individual hearings and most will fill out the paperwork for their payments, which are expected to average $1.5 million. As a result, he expects to conduct most of the hearings himself.
But Larry S. Stewart, president of Trial Lawyers Care, a national consortium of lawyers offering free legal services, disagrees. His group, in fact, has been encouraging its 1,400 or so claimants to request face-to-face hearings.
Many educators and lawyers said that there should have been more plaintiffs' lawyers, retired judges and perhaps even economists. Not to be ignored, too, is an apparent divide in class and experience between the victims and the examiners, according to some lawyers.
"He hasn't reached out to ordinary citizens; he hasn't reached out to people who have gone through what these people have gone through," said Kenneth P. Nolan, a partner at Speiser, Krause, Nolan & Granito in Manhattan, which represents more than 60 families. "How many of these people have relatives or close friends who are cops or firemen? Not many, I suggest."
Given the emotional baggage, money and history at stake, the examiners do not expect the process to be easy. But they are grateful to Mr. Feinberg for the chance to serve.
"We can do some real good here," said John R. Lacey, a former chairman of the Department of Justice's Foreign Claims Settlement Commission. "But no matter what you say, no matter how sympathetic you try to be, you can never please everybody. You have a lot of people who are angry. You have a lot of people who are grieving. But I'll take the heat as best as I can."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth R. Feinberg is seeking help to make Sept. 11 awards. (Associated Press)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VICTIMS RIGHTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); BUSINESS TORTS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); BONDS (68%); HIJACKING (63%); AIRLINES (60%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (54%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%) ;SEPT 11 VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W; FEINBERG, KENNETH R; WEBSTER, WILLIAM H; KATZENBACH, NICHOLAS DEB; MILLER, ARTHUR R (PROF); BIRNBAUM, SHEILA L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



655 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela Economy Falters, Despite Abundant Oil 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
When Pasquale Iachini and Alfonso Marozzi arrived here from Italy half a century ago, they started small, buying an old Fiat truck to transport dirt and supplies. Venezuela boomed in the years that followed, and their company, Yamaro Construction, grew into a leading builder of bridges, highways and other public projects.
 But now, the government of Hugo Chavez is pinched for cash, the economy is sliding fast and company officials are worried. Yamaro's payroll, once 1,000 strong, is down to 400 workers, and three major road projects are at a standstill, casualties of nonpayment by the government. 
 "The private sector is not investing, and the public sector has no capacity to do so," said Armando Iachini, 38, a son of the co-founder who helps run the company. "There are projects we want to start, but we cannot get them going because of a lack of resources."
The outlook is not likely to improve anytime soon, economists say, as Venezuela is convulsed by the deepest and most troubling economic recession it has experienced in more than a decade.
The economic fortunes of oil-rich developing countries often soar and dive with swings in the price of crude, but this crisis in Venezuela is different: it comes when oil prices are high -- now above $30 a barrel -- and rising, and could shoot up further if the United States attacks Iraq.
What is destabilizing the economy here now is politics, not petroleum. The left-leaning Mr. Chavez, survivor of one coup already, is still struggling to keep at bay the big-business groups and old-line politicians who are bent on removing him from office.
Huge protests turned violent in April in the days surrounding the abortive coup; the upheaval claimed 18 lives. Mr. Chavez returned to power after two days, but his adversaries have not given up, and are now pressing for a referendum on the president's rule.
The turmoil has turned the economy bleak. It contracted by 7.1 percent in the first half of the year, according to government figures, including a drop of nearly 10 percent in the second quarter. Unemployment reached 16.2 percent at the end of June, and inflation, which had been slowing for years, shot up again, to double last year's rate.
"The situation is very dire," said Michael Gavin, chief Latin America economist for WBS Warburg in Connecticut.
"A 9 percent drop in G.D.P. is getting pretty close to what you had in Argentina," Mr. Gavin said. "A 16 percent unemployment rate, which most people believe is underestimated, is very close to what you had in Argentina."
The recession has brought hard times for businesses in most of the country's important economic sectors. The oil industry's economic output contracted by one-sixth in the second quarter; manufacturing fell 9 percent; financial institutions posted an 8.5 percent drop, and construction plunged by more than 30 percent.
The collapse in construction is particularly troubling; the industry is an important barometer of economic stability. In good times, about 1.1 million people in this country of 24 million work in construction jobs.
But the number of workers has fallen to 440,000, as government public works spending has fallen to $1.5 billion from $5.5 billion in 2001, according to Juan Francisco Clerico, president of a builders' trade group.
Mr. Clerico said business was so bad that his own company, Vinccler, has halved its roster of contract workers to 1,000; it has 150 permanent employees.
"Unfortunately, for the first time, we are thinking of dismissing some of our permanent workers," Mr. Clerico said. "We simply have not initiated new investments."
Builders say high interest rates make matters worse; so do consumer fears and a shortage of available credit. When the economy is healthy, Venezuelans build more than 80,000 new homes and apartments a year; this year the figure may be fewer than 20,000.
"We are contracted to build a home, but our partners do not have credit," said Jaime Gomez, director of Inversiones Villa Borghese, which builds apartment buildings. "If there is no credit, then that is the end of the world for us."
The hard times extend to service businesses like retailers, hotels, restaurants and tourism agencies. Even auto dealerships, a quintessential business in this country of cheap oil and big cars, are experiencing falling sales. 
"We're suffering," said Rene Diaz, who has sold half the number of cars he sold in 2001 at his Caracas dealership. "The economy has de-accelerated so much, inflation is very high and there has been a monstrous devaluation. So the dollar is not worth what it once was."
Mr. Gavin and other economists do not believe that the economy will collapse as Argentina's has, because Venezuela can count on dollar revenue from oil sales and because its foreign debt, at 20 percent of G.D.P., is manageable.
But the country's political instability and dismal economy have made it difficult for the government to attract foreign investment or obtain the international loans it needs to cover part of the $4 billion in financing Venezuela needs for 2002.
In fact, capital is leaving the country at an alarming pace, with $5 billion to $10 billion taken out by Venezuelans in 2001. Since the government scrapped strict exchange controls in February, the currency, the bolivar, has lost 46 percent of its value against the dollar this year.
The government has responded in several ways. The finance minister, Tobias Nobrega, has said that Venezuela is hoping to secure a $500 million loan from the World Bank. The government has been trying to find buyers for Venezuelan bonds, but has been having trouble winning over investors.
A public feud between the planning minister, Felipe Perez, and the country's central bank has also worried investors.
Authorities are now considering paying more workers in bonds, and there is a heated debate about whether to dip into Venezuela's $11 billion in foreign currency reserves. The government has also increased a financial transactions tax by one-quarter percentage point and raised the value-added tax to 16 percent from 14.5 percent.
The government needs cash so acutely that Mr. Nobrega said recently that it would search through dormant bank accounts for extra money. "That's the equivalent of getting coins from a couch," said Francisco Toro, an editor at Veneconomia, a financial newsletter.
Mr. Chavez, who says his opponents are sabotaging the economy to weaken his government, has acknowledged the economic problems but says that renewed demand for oil will bring on a recovery.
Many analysts, though, believe that oil, which accounts for 30 percent of economic output here, can provide only limited relief because the state oil company has been starved of investment and does not have the capacity to produce much more oil quickly.
"Venezuela is sitting on oil deposits that cannot help the country," said Ricardo Hausmann, a former chief economist at the Inter-American Development bank who now teaches economic development at Harvard University.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Sinking Into Recession"By most economic indicators, Venezuela's economy is deteriorating even though world prices for oil, its main export, are high. Political turmoil is the main reason. Graphs track INFLATION, UNEMPLOYMENT, GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT and BOLIVAR TO THE DOLLAR since 1997.(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Central Bank of Venezuela)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); POLITICS (86%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); TRENDS (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); COUPS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (66%); RIOTS (63%); REFERENDUMS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%) FORERO, JUAN; CHAVEZ, HUGO 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



656 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Markets in Brazil Plunge On Worries Over Election 

BYLINE:  By TONY SMITH 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
The Brazilian real fell by more than 4.5 percent and stock and bond markets also fell sharply today, as investors concluded from the latest opinion poll that the left-wing presidential candidate Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva may be on his way to an outright victory in the first round of voting Oct. 6, an outcome many businesspeople here dread.
 The poll, published on Sunday in Folha de Sao Paulo, a leading daily, showed Mr. Silva with the support of 44 percent of respondents, widening his lead over the center-right government's candidate, the former health minister Jose Serra, to 25 points from the 19 points of 10 days ago. The trend threatened to extinguish hopes by Mr. Serra's supporters that their candidate could still win in a runoff if Mr. Silva failed to get a majority of votes in the first round. 
 Investors' reading of the trend made itself felt at the opening bell today. By the close of stock trading the main index, the Bovespa, had fallen 3.4 percent, the Brazilian real had lost 4.9 percent of its value against the dollar, and traders were bidding just 51.5 cents on the dollar for the benchmark government "C" bond, down from 54.44 cents on the dollar on Friday.
"It's exactly what the market didn't want to see," said Alexandre Schwartsman, chief economist at BBA Corretora, a Sao Paulo brokerage firm, referring to the poll data.
Although Mr. Silva's party, the Workers' Party, has shifted to more centrist policies in recent years and he has pledged fiscal austerity and sound macroeconomic policies, many investors worry that Mr. Silva, a former labor leader, who is known as Lula, is not up to the job of managing South America's largest economy and dealing with its unwieldy $260 billion public debt. 
Markets even shrugged off positive news that the real's weakness was helping improve Brazil's trade position. The government said today that the country had recorded a surprisingly large weekly surplus of $929 million in the week ended Sunday, bringing the cumulative trade balance for the year so far to a $7.24 billion surplus. 
"Compared to a trade deficit of $10 billion just a few years back, this marks a huge turnaround in the country's finances," said Doug Smith, chief economist for the Americas at Standard Chartered Bank in New York. "But the problem is that Brazilian companies still must get credit to finance these exports, and that's increasingly expensive."
Worries about the world economy and the strength of Mr. Silva's appeal have made it difficult for Brazilian companies to borrow at anything but dizzying rates. Last week, the government had to pay 19 percent for six-week notes and 22 percent on notes due Jan. 8.
"That's really not cheap," Mr. Smith said. "And it shows that even if Lula has the best intentions of keeping up debt payments, the market might not be willing to cut him the slack he needs."
Not that a miraculous comeback by Mr. Serra would be a cure-all, Mr. Smith said. "Whoever wins," he said, "it will require considerable macroeconomic skill to meet payment on the debt, keep the economy running and gain credibility with the markets." 
Some economists expect investors to punish the real if Mr. Silva wins, pushing it down as low as four to the dollar from about 3.57 now. But Guido Mantega, one of Mr. Silva's closest economic advisers, said the markets were "fueled by exaggerations" and that Mr. Silva would move swiftly to appoint a credible economic team.
"There will be no surprises, and all contracts will be respected," Mr. Mantega said. "I believe the postelectoral period will be calmer than the pre-electoral one. There is no danger of default; Brazil's accounts are viable."
He said that markets in other nations had been scared by impending political transitions, as with the election of Vicente Fox election in Mexico or of Tony Blair in Britain, but those markets returned to normal once the leaders presented their economic policies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The presidential candidate Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, a former labor leader, has pledged fiscal austerity, but investors remain wary of him. (Associated Press) Graph tracks the Bovespa Index since January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); DEBT NOTES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%) ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; PUBLIC OPINION; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (51%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (51%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOLHA DE SAO PAULO (BRAZILIAN NEWSPAPER) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (51%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (93%) SMITH, TONY; SILVA, LUIZ INACIO LULA DA; SERRA, JOSE (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (94%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



657 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: White Man's Burden 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
We should listen to Karl Rove when he lauds former presidents. For example, Mr. Rove has lately taken to saying that George W. Bush is another Andrew Jackson. As Congress considers Mr. Bush's demand that the Homeland Security Department be exempt from civil service rules, it should recall that those rules were introduced out of revulsion over the "spoils system," under which federal appointments were reserved for political loyalists -- a practice begun under Jackson.
 But Mr. Rove's original model was William McKinley. Until Sept. 11, we thought that Mr. Rove admired McKinley's domestic political strategy. But McKinley was also the president who acquired an overseas empire. And there's a definite whiff of imperial ambition in the air once again. 
 Of course the new Bush doctrine, in which the United States will seek "regime change" in nations that we judge might be future threats, is driven by high moral purpose. But McKinley-era imperialists also thought they were morally justified. The war with Spain -- which ruled its colonies with great brutality, but posed no threat to us -- was justified by an apparent act of terror, the sinking of the battleship Maine, even though no evidence ever linked that attack to Spain. And the purpose of our conquest of the Philippines was, McKinley declared, "to educate the Filipinos, and uplift and civilize and Christianize them."
Moral clarity aside, the parallel between America's pursuit of manifest destiny a century ago and its new global sense of mission has a lot to teach us.
First, the experience of the Spanish-American War should remind us that quick conventional military victory is not necessarily the end of the story. Thanks to American technological superiority, Adm. George Dewey destroyed a Spanish fleet in Manila Bay without losing a single man. But a clean, high-tech war against Spain somehow turned into an extremely dirty war against the Filipino resistance, one in which hundreds of thousands of civilians died. 
Second, America's imperial venture should serve as an object warning against taking grand strategic theories too seriously. The doctrines of the day saw colonies as strategic assets. In the end, it's very doubtful whether our control of the Philippines made us stronger. Now we're assured that military action against rogue states will protect us from terrorism. But the rogue state now in our sights doesn't seem to have been involved in Sept. 11; what determines whose regime gets changed? 
Finally, we should remember that the economic doctrines that were used to justify Western empire-building during the late 19th century -- that colonies would provide valuable markets and sources of raw materials -- turned out to be nonsense. Almost without exception, the cost of acquiring and defending a colonial empire greatly exceeded even a generous accounting of its benefits. These days, pundits tell us that a war with Iraq will drive down oil prices, and maybe even yield a financial windfall. But the effect on oil prices is anything but certain, while the heavy costs of war, occupation and rebuilding -- for we won't bomb Iraq, then wash our hands of responsibility, will we? -- are not in doubt. And no, the United States cannot defray the costs of war out of Iraqi oil revenue -- not unless we are willing to confirm to the world that we're just old-fashioned imperialists, after all.
In the end, 19th-century imperialism was a diversion. It's hard not to suspect that the Bush doctrine is also a diversion -- a diversion from the real issues of dysfunctional security agencies, a sinking economy, a devastated budget and a tattered relationship with our allies. 
Halliburton has objected to my use of the word "confiscate" in summarizing changes in pension benefits to employees whose divisions were sold, changes described in a Sept. 10 New York Times article. Although Halliburton's actions were legal -- I did not suggest otherwise -- they had the effect of depriving workers of benefits they had been led to expect. In particular, workers who planned to take early retirement were informed that they had "severed" their employment relationship -- even though they had no choice in the matter -- and that as a result, if they retired early they would not receive the level of benefits suggested by their retirement plan statements. However much Halliburton may try to put a spin on its actions, its behavior remains, as one pension expert quoted in the original article put it, "scandalous." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); REAL ESTATE (86%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); CITIES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (70%); OFFICE PROPERTY (62%) GENETICS AND HEREDITY; LABORATORIES AND SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (58%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) VARMUS, HAROLD (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



658 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: In Georgia, a Shot at Congress for 5 Blacks 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: ATHENS, Ga., Sept. 20 

 BODY:
If Democrats in Georgia have drawn the new lines for Congressional districts as cleverly as they think they have, the party will win four additional seats in the House in the November elections, and the state's delegation will include five African-Americans, the most ever from any state.
 "It is amazing to me," said Representative John Lewis of Atlanta, a hero of the civil rights movement in the 1960's and an influential voice in mapping the new districts, "that a state where just a few years ago blacks couldn't even register to vote may now send five African-Americans to Congress." 
 This is one of the few states where redistricting in line with the 2000 census may lead to a big change in representation in Congress. In most other states, governors and legislatures chose to protect incumbents rather than shake up the delegations.
Nonpartisan handicappers who track the races for House seats say that nationwide the parties basically broke even on redistricting this year, a big difference from the situation after the 1990 census. Then, Republicans probably gained 25 or 30 seats from the new district maps, an important factor in the party's winning control of the House in 1994. 
But here, Gov. Roy Barnes, a Democrat, and the Democrats who control the State Senate and House set out with a vengeance to reverse the gains Republicans had made in the 1990's. Then, they joined forces with black politicians to create three districts where black voters were a heavy majority -- a tactic called "max black" that had the effect of making the state's other districts safely white and Republican.
The Georgia delegation in the House now has eight white Republicans and three black Democrats. The state gained two seats as a result of the 2000 census. If all goes the way the Democrats have planned, the delegation in the next Congress will have five black Democrats, two white Democrats and six white Republicans. (New York and California now each have four African-Americans in Congress, the most any state has ever had.) 
The four additional Democrats here could be essential if Democrats are to pick up the net of six seats they need to win control of the House.
The Democratic strategy in Georgia was to concede six seats to Republicans and draw boundaries that packed white voters into those districts, a tactic called bleaching. Black voters were then spread more evenly than they had been among the remaining districts. In Congressional races here, 90 to 95 percent of blacks usually vote Democratic, while 65 to 75 percent of whites vote Republican.
The Democrats' strategy was based on the conclusion of Mr. Lewis and other black political leaders in Washington and the Georgia Legislature that blacks could win even if they did not make up the overwhelming majority of voters in a district, and that white Democrats needed black votes to win.
Elsewhere, Republicans could pick up at least two seats from new district maps in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Florida, states with Republican governors and legislatures. Other than Georgia, the Democrats' best prospects are in Maryland, where the party could gain two seats.
But both parties dropped the ball in some large states, where they did not exercise their control of the redistricting process to make big changes in the composition of the Congressional delegation.
In California, Democrats are expected to gain one seat. The party's leaders in Sacramento decided to concentrate on protecting incumbents.
In Ohio, internal disagreements prevented Republicans from making big gains.
Twelve seats shifted as a result of the 1990 census. Arizona, Florida, Georgia and Texas gained two seats each, and California, Colorado, Nevada and North Carolina gained one. New York and Pennsylvania lost two seats. Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Ohio, Oklahoma and Wisconsin each lost one.
Republicans were encouraged when the redistricting began because the shift in seats was largely from the Rust Belt to the Sun Belt, where Republicans are strong.
But that advantage was offset by another phenomenon, said Representative Martin Frost of Texas, who was in charge of the Democrats' redistricting effort nationwide: much of the growth in the Sun Belt came from blacks and Hispanics. As a consequence, Mr. Frost said, new seats in Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada and North Carolina could go to Democrats.
Representative Thomas M. Davis III of Virginia, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said he was standing by the prediction he made at the beginning of the redistricting process last year that Republicans would gain at least eight seats.
But Charles E. Cook Jr. and Stuart Rothenberg, who publish competing nonpartisan political reports, say that Mr. Davis is probably too optimistic and that Republicans should pick up no more than a couple of seats from redistricting.
In New York, which has a Republican governor and Senate and a Democratic Assembly, one of the seats that was lost was Democratic and the other was Republican. Representatives John J. LaFalce, a Democrat, and Benjamin A. Gilman, a Republican, decided to retire rather than run against another incumbent.
In Connecticut, which has a Republican governor and a Democratic Legislature, the lost seat was resolved by pitting incumbents from opposing parties -- Nancy L. Johnson, a Republican, and Jim Maloney, a Democrat -- against each other. Ms. Johnson may have a slight edge in a very close race.
New Jersey's new map was drawn by a nonpartisan commission and is not much different from the old one.
The most important development in redistricting this time is the decision of Democrats here in Georgia to redraw the districts so more of them have high percentages of black voters, to improve Democratic prospects statewide.
When the redistricting began after the 1990 census, Democrats held a 100-seat advantage in the House. But despite large black populations, there was only one black representative from Georgia, Mr. Lewis, and none from Alabama, Florida, Virginia or the Carolinas, a situation that Democrats found embarrassing and that the Republican Justice Department found did not comply with voting rights laws.
To change the situation, the legislatures in these states created a few districts with high concentrations of black voters to guarantee that African-Americans would be elected. The rule of thumb was that 65 percent of the voting-age population needed to be black for a black to be elected.
Blacks were indeed elected to Congress in all these states -- the number of black Democrats rose to 39 from 26 -- but a byproduct of the concentration of black voters was many overwhelmingly white districts that proceeded to elect Republicans.
Before the previous redistricting, there was only one Republican in the Georgia delegation, Newt Gingrich. By 1995, there were eight.
Now Democrats, black and white, have decided that their only hope of regaining control of the House is to dilute the black vote in the heavily black districts in order to increase it in others. Federal courts have held that this does not violate voting rights laws.
"All members of the Congressional Black Caucus would have more influence if Democrats were in the majority," said David A. Bositis, senior political analyst for the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research institute that focuses on issues facing African-Americans.
If the Georgia experiment is successful, Democrats are sure to try it elsewhere. But it could backfire.
The white Republicans in the bleached districts will now be solidly entrenched. For example, Representative Charlie Norwood's old district was 38 percent black, and his seat was never safe. His new district is only 13 percent black.
While the Democrats running for the four open seats in Georgia, two whites and two blacks, are favored, they are by no means sure bets. 
One of them, Charles W. Walker Jr., is running in an oddly shaped district that meanders to pick up black precincts in Savannah and Augusta and liberal white precincts here in Athens, home of the University of Georgia. The district, 42 percent black, was designed by Mr. Walker's father, the majority leader of the State Senate. Questions about the father's sharp elbows could hurt the son's chances.
But if Mr. Walker loses, it will not be primarily because white Democrats will not vote for a black candidate.
"We have seen," said Charles S. Bullock III, a political scientist at the University of Georgia and an expert on redistricting, "that black candidates can count on 25 to 35 percent of the white vote."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative John Lewis was influential in redistricting Georgia. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) Chart/Map: "Georgia Democrats Draw Districts Along Party (and Racial) Lines"The racial distribution of Georgias population has not changed much since the last census. The Democratic Legislature, however, has redrawn the districts so more of them have high percentages of black voters. In Congressional races here, 90 percent to 95 percent of blacks usually vote Democratic. Graph track percentage of blacks (By census tracts) for 1990 (adjusted) and 200020% 40% 60% Graph tracks 1992 districts and 2002 districts (more than 40% black) (Sources: Queens College Sociology Department; Georgia Legislative Reapportionment Office; Census Bureau) Maps of Georgia highlighting the districts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); REDISTRICTING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CENSUS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%) REAPPORTIONMENT; BLACKS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: JOHN LEWIS (78%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); ATHENS, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) GEORGIA

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



659 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Year After 9/11, Fashion Week Speaks of Recovery and Money 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
Some people outside the fashion business may regard Fashion Week as a frivolous and frolicsome affair, sprinkled with glitz and waifs, designers and groupies. New York City tourism and economic officials, though, take it quite seriously. 
 They say the week of high-fashion shows, at Bryant Park near Sixth Avenue and at other sites around the city, took on new significance this year and became an indicator that the city's crucial convention and trade-show industries are healthy. 
 Last September's Fashion Week was canceled midstream because of the World Trade Center attack, and this September's affair -- with events from the Bryant Park stage to the Men's Health party at the East Village club Butter -- came as the city has struggled to recover economically. 
The private organizing group, Seventh on Sixth, said fewer people were expected to attend this year than usually come for the September show, but early indications are that attendance was up at the semiannual event, which ended yesterday. The show drew a few hundred more visitors than the 10,000 that usually come, organizers believe, and brought about $200 million into the city, a little less than in previous years. (On the other hand, it could always be better, they point out.) 
In addition to the people who came and the money that was spent at restaurants, clubs and hotels, city tourism officials say, the events gave them a good opportunity to market the city.
One night last week, at the City Cinema East Village, at Second Avenue and East 12th Street, Kate Walsh, who has appeared in HBO's "Mind of the Married Man," was at the screening of a short fashion-related film in which she stars as a trapper who lures naive women from backwater towns into modeling jobs in the city. Ms. Walsh, who has been back in New York three times since the terrorist attack, thinks Fashion Week has given the city a good opportunity to move past the Sept. 11 emotional turmoil by focusing on something else.
"When I came back in November, people were melancholy, and we were just spending money to try to help the city's economy," Ms. Walsh said. "It now feels like New York is New York, like the cat that always lands on its feet."
During the shows at Bryant Park, Vogue magazine set up closed-circuit television monitors so passers-by on the street could see what was going on in the shows in the tents, a sight the general public rarely sees. During their show at the park, Hugo Boss employees handed out white roses and chocolates to passers-by and other designers' workers gave smartly dressed strollers invitations to parties.
These were some of the attempts, according to officials at Seventh on Sixth, to get more New Yorkers involved.
Jaclyn E. Bernstein, a private event planner, saw Fashion Week as a mixed bag. "New York is coming back despite the fact that there is a potential war on the horizon and the economy is not so good," said Ms. Bernstein, president and partner at Empire Force Events, a party planning company. "But the one challenge that is facing us is that companies are holding back on parties, they are holding back on decor, maybe not the best Champagne and maybe a little bit more low-key events."
After the attack last year, 13 of the big trade shows and conventions scheduled for New York City were canceled, but 23 new ones, from the annual convention of the American Society of Travel Agents to the Coca-Cola shareholder meeting, were moved to New York. Tourism officials estimate that this year, the pace of meetings, conventions and exhibitions is about even with previous years'. These events brought in about three million of the more than 37 million visitors to the city in 2000, who accounted for $1.9 billion of the total of $17 billion spent by business travelers and vacationers. 
But NYC & Company, the city's convention and visitors bureau, said that meetings, conventions and exhibitions -- particularly those that have an international flavor, like Fashion Week -- have become more important to the city's economic health because foreign visitors tend to spend much more than domestic visitors and are in short supply. Fashion Week attracted thousands of foreign visitors, who tourism officials hope will encourage others at home to visit New York City.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Cristyne L. Nicholas, president and chief executive of NYC & Company, have called for the expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center to accommodate larger events and for the development of large projects on the West Side of Manhattan in order to help with New York's bid for the 2012 Olympics and the 2007 and 2008 Super Bowls.
While city officials have tried to attract big events like the 2003 Academy Awards and the 2004 Democratic and Republican National Conventions, the largest meetings in New York each year are held by groups like the Magazine Publishers of America or the American Association of Trial Lawyers. The International Gift Fair attracted 30,000 people to the Javits Convention Center.
The sales efforts to court more of that sort of gathering continue. Mayor Bloomberg and Ms. Nicholas have been holding meetings at Gracie Mansion with executives and event planners in the pharmaceutical and nonprofit industries in an effort to win their events. Mr. Bloomberg expects to meet later with executives and planners in financial services and other industries.
Ms. Nicholas said Fashion Week helped show many executives and industry leaders that "New York is back open for business" and would help spread the word when they go home. "These events are more important these days for the money that they bring," Ms. Nicholas continued, "but the real value is the direct-marketing opportunity."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Free cocktails were served at a Fashion Week party with Vox Vodka as a co-sponsor. (Monica Graff for The New York Times)(pg. B1); A party given Wednesday night by a London hairdresser, Charles Worthington, at his Chelsea penthouse. (Monica Graff for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION SHOWS (91%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); MEN (77%); TRENDS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); MEN'S HEALTH (70%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); RESTAURANTS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) APPAREL; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (56%); VOGUE MAGAZINE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SEVENTH ON SIXTH (ORGN) 

PERSON: KATE WALSH (79%) BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (59%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



660 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: More U.S. Aid Urged To Upgrade Schools 

 BODY:
Speaking at a Queens elementary school where students start lining up for lunch before 10 a.m. because of overcrowding, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton called yesterday for more federal aid to fix aging schools and build new ones.
 "We have to focus on the other three R's -- rebuilding, repairing and reinforcing," she said at a news conference at Public School 69 in Jackson Heights. 
 Senator Clinton is sponsoring a bill that would provide grants to states that would then make low-interest loans that municipalities could use to build and repair schools.
The legislation requires that the state provide a 25 percent match for federal money.
The senator's office estimated that the measure would provide $12.5 million a year in federal aid for each state. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); GRANTS & GIFTS (53%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%) CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



661 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14

U.S. Proposal at U.N. Harshly Criticizes Israel
The United States proposed a Security Council resolution that criticized Israel in unusually strong terms, while administration officials accused Israel of undermining Palestinian reform efforts by confining Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, in his compound in Ramallah. Israeli tanks and bulldozers backed by helicopters stormed into the fringes of Gaza City early today, in an apparent hunt for men Israel accuses of terrorism. At least nine Palestinians were killed, The Associated Press reported, citing hospital sources. A1

Bush Snubs Schroder After Win
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, who narrowly won re-election on Sunday in part by opposing an American war in Iraq, scrambled to try to patch up relations with Washington, but President Bush refrained from making the customary congratulatory telephone call to the German leader. Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld underscored Washington's ire by announcing pointedly that he would not meet his German counterpart. A1

Voices for and Against Iraq
Three retired four-star American generals testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee that attacking Iraq without a United Nations resolution supporting military action could limit aid from allies, energize recruiting for Al Qaeda and undermine America's long-term diplomatic and economic interests. President Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain both demanded tough action against Saddam Hussein. A16

Russia Mourns a Rising Star
Russia's hottest young movie star, Sergei Bodrov Jr., was among scores of people caught in a landslide, and most likely killed, when an immense glacier split from a mountain peak in the Caucasus, burying a hillside village. A10

Afghans' Rivalry Persists
The city of Mazar-i-Sharif and the northern Afghan region as a whole have refused to settle down since the collapse of the Taliban 10 months ago. Armed groups have repeatedly clashed, and there have been a series of attacks on foreign aid organizations. A19

Being Sick Pays in Sweden
Swedes are exercising the most generous absentee rights in the world in such growing numbers that the country's cradle-to-grave welfare budget faces a cash crisis. The government pays a benefit equal to 80 percent of a person's salary during sick leave, no matter how long; those benefit payments have grown to $5.3 billion annually from just over $2 billion in 1998. A3

Tapes Reveal Ukraine's Role
The United States, relying on an analysis of clandestine tape-recordings, has concluded that President Leonid D. Kuchma of Ukraine approved a plan in July 2000 to sell Iraq an advanced radar system that can detect approaching aircraft without their pilots' knowledge. The American conclusion led the government to suspend a $55 million-a-year aid program to Ukraine, the official said. A16

NATIONAL A20-25

Government Outlines Plan For Smallpox Inoculation
Officials at the Centers for Disease Control instructed states to prepare to vaccinate every American in the event of a biological attack using smallpox. A1

Cities Covet Farmers' Water
About 400 farmers and a Southern California water authority hold Colorado River water rights that 17 million people in Southern California need, elevating the farmers to a position of unprecedented power. A22

Democrats See Gains in Georgia
Democrats say they might gain four seats and include a record five African-Americans in Georgia's U.S. House delegation after the November elections as a result of districting. A25

Court Nominee Faces Senate
The nomination of Miguel Estrada to a federal appeals court, which the Senate Judiciary Committee takes up this week, may produce the most contentious judicial fight yet in the Bush administration. A23

Gore Critical of Bush on Iraq
Al Gore accused the Bush administration of weakening the war on terrorism by turning the country's attention to Saddam Hussein. A17

Saudi Visitors Must Register
A program that requires registration of foreign visitors from some countries in the Middle East and North Africa is being expanded to include men from Saudi Arabia, home to 15 of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers. A17

Odd Clash on Bankruptcy Bill
Two powerful lobbying groups that usually have no quarrel with each other -- credit card companies and abortion opponents activists -- are battling over a bill to overhaul the nation's bankruptcy system. A22

Landmark Family Leave Law
Gov. Gray Davis signed a bill establishing paid family leave to care for a new child or an ailing relative, giving California workers the most expansive family benefit in the U.S. A20

Ruling on Public Voyeurism
The Washington State Supreme Court has overturned the convictions of two men for taking pictures underneath women's skirts, ruling that the state's voyeurism statute did not apply to photographs taken in public. A24

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Panel Urges Overhaul Of System for Mentally Ill
A high-level Pataki administration panel declared that New York should largely abandon its decades-old system of adult homes for the mentally ill, and called for hundreds of millions of dollars for new services and housing. A1

Judges for 9/11 Fund
The Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund, for almost a year, has been defined by only one public face: Kenneth R. Feinberg. But now, Mr. Feinberg is preparing to decentralize. To help him determine how much each victim's family should receive, he has invited 41 retired judges, lawyers and professors to join a novel appellate system that will mediate objections raised by the families. B1

Museum Appoints New Director
The Museum of the City of New York named Susan Henshaw Jones as its new director. Ms. Jones will start at the museum in February. B2

Anger Over Columbia Gibe
Fordham University students and alumni, as well as the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights, are calling on the president of Columbia University to apologize for an off-color gibe by a band announcer at Saturday's football game. The remark apparently referred to the priest sex scandal. B3

FASHION B9

ARTS E1-8

SPORTS D1-7

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5

OBITUARIES B8

Joan Littlewood
A producer, director and author who was one of the most important and original figures responsible for the regeneration of the British theater in the 1950's and 60's, she was 87. B8

BUSINESS DAY C1-22

Ruling Against Energy Provider
An administrative law judge concluded that the El Paso Corporation illegally withheld natural gas to drive up prices in California during the power crisis in 2000 and 2001. If upheld by the Federal Energy Regulation Commission, the decision will likely be appealed. A1

Satellite TV Merger Opposed
Lawyers in the antitrust division at the Justice Department have concluded that the proposed merger of DirecTV and EchoStar Communications, the nation's largest satellite television providers, is anticompetitive and should be blocked. A1

Indictments in Adelphia Case
A grand jury indicted the founder of Adelphia Communications, John J. Rigas, two of his sons and two other former Adelphia executives on charges of conspiracy, wire fraud and bank fraud. C1

'Mild' Recession Not So Mild
Last year's recession was mild when measured by the output of goods and services. But corporate profits and stock prices have dropped sharply. The Federal Reserve could cut interest rates again, but the lowest rates in four decades have yet to spark a recovery. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Germany speaks; more than an academic exercise; an end to the Louima case; North Korea's "open door."

Columns: Paul Krugman, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E8
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TALIBAN (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RADAR SYSTEMS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); HELICOPTERS (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); AL-QAEDA (71%); BUDGETS (70%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (67%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); MOUNTAINS (64%); SICK LEAVE (61%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); SMALLPOX (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (69%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAZAR-E SHARIF, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UKRAINE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (91%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



662 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: CONGRESS; 
3 Retired Generals Warn Of Peril in Attacking Iraq Without Backing of U.N.

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
Three retired four-star American generals said today that attacking Iraq without a United Nations resolution supporting military action could limit aid from allies, energize recruiting for Al Qaeda and undermine America's long-term diplomatic and economic interests.
 "We must continue to persuade the other members of the Security Council of the correctness of our position, and we must not be too quick to take no for an answer," Gen. John M. Shalikashvili, a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
 The officers' testimony came on a day when both those who appear to be rushing toward a military confrontation with Saddam Hussein and those who advocate more caution were raising their voices in support of their positions. 
At a campaign stop in New Jersey, President Bush prodded the United Nations to demonstrate its relevance by standing up to Mr. Hussein. Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, who plans to issue a 55-page intelligence dossier on Iraq's weapons of mass destruction on Tuesday, joined Mr. Bush today in demanding tough action against Mr. Hussein. 
Back in Washington some House Democrats prepared alternate resolutions to authorize the use of force with Iraq and others issued a detailed report on how much the war would cost. In California, former Vice President Al Gore, the man Mr. Bush defeated for president, harshly criticized the administration's push for war against Iraq, saying it had hurt the United States' standing and could dangerously undermine the rule of law around the world.
In their testimony before the Senate committee, the officers, including Gen. Wesley K. Clark, a former NATO military commander, and Gen. Joseph P. Hoar, a former chief of the United States Central Command, said the United States should retain the right to act unilaterally to defend its interests.
But the three commanders, some of whom warned that a war with Iraq could detract from the campaign against terrorism, said the Bush administration must work harder to exhaust diplomatic options before resorting to unilateral military action to oust President Saddam Hussein and eliminate any weapons of mass destruction Iraq may have.
"It's a question of what's the sense of urgency here, and how soon would we need to act unilaterally?" said General Clark, an Army officer who commanded allied forces in the 1999 Kosovo air war. "So far as any of the information has been presented, there is nothing that indicates that in the immediate, next hours, next days, that there's going to be nuclear-tipped missiles put on launch pads to go against our forces or our allies in the region."
A fourth military leader, Lt. Gen. Thomas G. McInerney, the former assistant vice chief of staff of the Air Force, offered a different opinion, saying the United States should act quickly in Iraq. "We should not wait to be attacked with weapons of mass destruction," he said.
Speaking in Trenton at a fund-raiser for Douglas R. Forrester, the Republican challenger for a Senate seat in New Jersey, Mr. Bush used some of his most direct and confrontational language yet about the United Nations and Iraq, making it clear that his patience for the debate within the Security Council was limited. He said in clearer terms than at any other time in the last week that if the United Nations failed to disarm Mr. Hussein, he would.
Mr. Bush said the Security Council "will tell the world whether or not they're going to be relevant, or whether or not they're going to be weak."
The president's confrontational style with the United Nations is clearly meant to keep up the pressure in a critical week, as the wording of a resolution about Iraq comes together. But it is also a risky strategy. By telling the other members of the Security Council that he will go ahead no matter what they do, Mr. Bush is, one administration official conceded, "giving the U.N. very little room of its own."
The message, he said, was, "We're going in, with you or without you."
Perhaps in response to the administration's tough tone, Russia's defense minister, Sergei B. Ivanov, said today that Russia did not necessarily oppose a new resolution. "We do not oppose the resolution tightening the inspectors' mission in Iraq," Mr. Ivanov said at a news conference in Madrid, where he is visiting, the Interfax news agency reported.
At the United Nations, Secretary General Kofi Annan today rejected comparisons of the United Nations to its ineffectual predecessor, the League of Nations, and said at a news conference, "It is a bit overstated when people say that the United Nations is facing an existential problem." Without referring directly to Mr. Bush, he added, "We are nowhere near that, and we should not really oversell that point."
Mr. Annan issued an advisory to Iraq, rejecting its assertion that it will not abide by any new Security Council resolution on the mandate of international weapons inspectors who are preparing to return to the country. The United Nations, he said, will follow "any new resolutions the council adopts, and so should Iraq."
As Mr. Bush and Mr. Annan verbally jousted, White House and Congressional aides continued to negotiate on a resolution on the use of force against Iraq that would be acceptable to both the president and bipartisan majorities in Congress. Some House Democrats began working on their own alternative language.
Lawmakers of both parties have said that the president's proposed resolution is too broad and ceded too much unchecked power to Mr. Bush.
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority whip, said today that two centrist Democrats, Representatives Ike Skelton of Missouri and John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, were drawing up their own proposed language.
Ms. Pelosi said that House Democrats would not propose a party alternative, but she held open the possibility that some Democrats could try to offer proposals of their own when the Iraq vote comes up on the House floor. Aides to Mr. Skelton, the senior Democrat on the Armed Services Committee, and Mr. Spratt, another member of the committee, confirmed that they were drawing up proposals, but held out the hope that their ideas could form a basis of common ground between the parties.
In the first effort in Congress to estimate the fiscal cost of an Iraqi war, Democrats on the House Budget Committee issued a report today putting the likely price tag at $30 billion to $60 billion, less than that for the Persian Gulf war in 1991. The gulf war cost about $60 billion at the time. But the allies picked up four-fifths of the costs of the gulf war, a level of financial support that is uncertain -- if not unlikely -- this time around, diplomats say.
The Democrats' estimates do not include the possible costs of a long-term peacekeeping mission or of providing aid. The report did not attempt to estimate those costs.
The Democratic report considered cases in which 250,000 American troops would win a war within either 30 or 60 days, and another in which half that number of troops would achieve the same outcome over the same periods.
At the Armed Services Committee hearing, the three generals said a United Nations resolution was important because it would isolate Mr. Hussein internationally, give skittish allies some political cover to join any military action and bolster America's long-term global aims.
"We are a global nation with global interests, and undermining the credibility of the United Nations does very little to help provide stability and security and safety to the rest of the world, where we have to operate for economic reasons and political reasons," said General Shalikashvili.
He and General Clark also suggested that Mr. Hussein might be less inclined to use chemical or biological weapons if other nations were behind an American-led campaign.
General Clark warned that attacking Iraq could divert military resources and political commitment to the global effort against Al Qaeda and possibly "supercharge" recruiting for the terrorist network.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Four retired generals testified before the Senate Armed Services Committee yesterday on United States policy toward Iraq, They were, left to right, John M. Shalikashvili, the former chief of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Wesley K. Clark, Joseph P. Hoar and Thomas G. McInerney. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); BUDGETS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); AL-QAEDA (91%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%) ;UNITED NATIONS; AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: AL GORE (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); TONY BLAIR (66%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) SCHMITT, ERIC; SHALIKASHVILI, JOHN M (GEN); HOAR, JOSEPH (GEN); CLARK, WESLEY; MCINERNEY, THOMAS G (GEN); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); GORE, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); KOSOVO (79%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002 



663 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK; 
A Surplus of Grapes Is a Boon for Buyers

BYLINE:  By Frank J. Prial 

 BODY:
UNWANTED grapes left hanging on the vines, tanks full of last year's wine, wineries sold or for sale: it looks as if hard times have hit the California wine business. Yes, but sometimes looks can be deceiving.
 It may not be a good time to be growing grapes, but it could turn out to be a very good time to buy a bottle of wine or two, or more. "There will be lots of bargains around, and I think it will spur demand," said Jon Fredrikson of Gomberg, Fredrikson Associates, prominent wine industry analysts. Retail prices have fallen 10 to 15 percent in recent months, Mr. Fredrikson estimated. 
 There is definitely a grape glut. By one reliable industry estimate, 75,000 tons of California grapes will be left to rot in vineyards. Which is probably just as well for some winemakers, because millions of gallons from the 2001 and even 2000 vintages, which came from unusually large harvests, and most of them good ones, sit unwanted in the tanks that would ordinarily welcome this year's harvest.
Tougher times for the industry can be seen in the recent spate of mergers and acquisitions of wineries. A few years ago, new wineries seemed to be opening every month or so, not just in California but in every grape-growing part of the country. In the last two weeks, the industry giant E. & J. Gallo first purchased the Louis M. Martini winery in the Napa Valley, and later acquired the Mirassou wine brand and inventory, with Mirassou retaining its winery in San Jose and its vineyards in Monterey County.
In the past year, Sterling Vineyards and Monterey Vineyards were sold to Diageo, a wine and spirits conglomerate; Foster's, the Australian beer maker, acquired Beringer Vineyards; and the Chalone Group, which owns Chalone Vineyards and several other wineries, bought Beaucanon, an ailing winery in the Napa Valley, and Staton Hills, a Washington State winery that had fallen on hard times. 
Does all this spell disaster for the industry? It's unlikely; "downshifting" might be a better way to put it. For one thing, the problems are mostly confined to the West Coast, and are likely to be temporary. New York's relatively small wine industry has had few of these problems.
"I've heard a lot about those surplus 75,000 tons," Mr. Fredrikson said, "but that represents about 2 percent of the crop, and almost all of it is Central Valley bulk wine fruit. It has almost nothing to do with the grapes that go into good table wines."
He compared the California surplus with that in Europe, where farm subsidies often result in chronic overproduction. In France and Italy, surplus wine is converted into alcohol and burned away. "They distill more than we consume," Mr. Fredrikson said.
No one is ready to estimate the size of the 2002 harvest in California because it's still going on and because unusually hot weather in recent days has everyone from San Diego to almost the Oregon border scrambling to get grapes in out of the sun. Mr. Fredrikson said the crop would be large but probably not up to the 2000 record of 3.4 million tons. Last year's crop was 3.1 million tons.
Speaking at an industry symposium in Napa, Calif., last week, Robert Smiley, dean of the Graduate School of Management at the University of California at Davis, said the consumer would benefit from the current surplus. 
"The grape glut means that better-quality grapes are available to winemakers at a lower cost," Mr. Smiley said. Producers will work off excess inventories, he added, "by offering new labels of good wine at lower prices." 
Oversupply is a periodic problem in the United States wine business, which mostly means California. In the 1980's, when it dawned on winemakers that earlier predictions of double-digit annual increases in consumption were nonsense, big investors like Coca-Cola bailed out of the business, leaving behind unwanted vines and vineyards.
By the mid-1990's, all that had changed. Between 1995 and 1999, 20 million cases of foreign bulk wine were imported to make up for serious domestic shortages. Prices skyrocketed, giving rise to a series of economic and social aberrations: wine "futures" that let consumers lock in prices by buying their wine two years before it was bottled, auctions at which canny insiders unloaded their cellars on newly minted connoisseurs, and barely palatable bottles of what became known as "cult" wines that sold for $500 a bottle. "A lot of wine guys had a great run in the 90's," Mr. Fredrikson said.
At the same time, to keep up with demand, the same wine guys were frantically planting new vineyards everywhere from Montauk to Mendocino. Industry estimates show that 40,000 acres of new vines came into production in California last year, most of it in bulk-wine country, but not all: in Sonoma County alone, 5,000 additional acres of cabernet sauvignon came online. In central and eastern Washington State, which produced 100,000 tons of premium grapes in 2001, this year's crop was estimated at 118,000 tons by the state's Association of Wine Grape Growers. Probably 15,000 tons will be left on the vines, the association said. 
What it all comes down to is this: A seller's market has become a buyer's market. Mr. Smiley may be a bit overoptimistic about those new labels. The $7-to-$18-a-bottle market that he had in mind has been plagued by obscure labels from California for years, most of them delivering much less than they promise. Another wave of these wines will come up against a lot of skepticism. 
Wine retailers' fall catalogs show some meaningful price changes; higher-priced Bordeaux and Burgundies are down, as is almost all high-end Champagne. Fall prices are important because the industry sells more wine in the fourth quarter than in the other three combined. 
Most retailers are reporting good sales. In New York, Michael Aaron, the chairman of Sherry-Lehmann, said sales were up about 15 percent in most wine categories compared with the same period in 2000. He passed over 2001 figures because of the World Trade Center disaster's devastating impact on New York business. The only category in which sales were not up was in California red wines, Mr. Aaron said. 
Actually, most retailers are reporting good sales. It may be that exports pose a bigger problem for the industry. In 2001, when domestic sales dropped 1 percent, exports were up 14 percent. Preliminary figures for the first half of 2002 show a considerable slowdown in foreign sales. 
"I think anti-Americanism could be a factor," Mr. Fredrikson said. "If they are unhappy with us, they are not going to buy our wine."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Wilson McLean) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (92%); WINE (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); BEER & ALE (69%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (67%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (66%); BREWERIES (63%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; GRAPES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WINES 

COMPANY: DIAGEO PLC (53%)

TICKER: DGE (PAR) (53%); DGE (LSE) (53%); DEO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (53%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (53%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (53%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (53%)

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (73%); WASHINGTON, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (69%); FRANCE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



664 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Winners of MacArthur Grants Announced 

BYLINE:  By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
A photographer who captured images of the World Trade Center from its construction more than 30 years ago to the day the towers fell, 11 scientists whose work ranges from self-changing robots to earthquake-resistant buildings, and an economist who explored executive compensation were among the 24 winners of the $500,000 "genius awards" announced yesterday.
 The awards are given annually by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation for creative accomplishment in various fields. The 14 men and 10 women who won this year ranged in age from 29 to 60 and included those in the arts, sciences and academia. The winners will receive an annual check of $100,000 during five years, to be used however they want. 
 The winners, informed by foundation officials by telephone last week, expressed a combination of astonishment, delight and gratitude in later interviews. MacArthur fellows are secretly nominated, so the awards usually come as a complete surprise. Many winners said the money would allow them creative freedom or generate publicity for organization fund-raising.
"I'm just out of breath, out of words," said Camilo Jose Vergara, 58, the photographer. He was out shopping for a mattress on Friday when his cellphone retrieved a message that Jonathan F. Fanton, the MacArthur Foundation's president, had called his apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He went home, he said, in dazed anticipation.
"I'll just live with the money," Mr. Vergara said. "I have two kids in college. For the first time I can look at a year and say I have enough to get through the year."
Mr. Vergara, whose work often chronicles the changes in poor urban neighborhoods, currently has an exhibition of World Trade Center photographs at the New-York Historical Society. He began photographing the towers sometime in 1970, he recalled, with the construction cranes behind them. Including the day they collapsed, he shot the towers over the years, from different vantage points inside and outside the city, at different times of day. 
The foundation said his work constituted "a unique visual study."
Brian Tucker, 56, a seismologist and founder and president of GeoHazards International in Palo Alto, Calif., said his MacArthur money would "make a huge difference in morale and open doors for us." His company goes to poor countries to help local organizations design and construct buildings, especially hospitals and schools, that can withstand earthquakes. 
Among the three writers who won was Colson Whitehead, 32, who received critical acclaim for his first two novels, "John Henry Days" (2001) and "The Intuitionist" (1998). The foundation called him "a bold experimental writer whose social and philosophical themes speak to the heart of American society."
The youngest winner was an economist, Sendhil Mullainathan, 29, who in this era of Wall Street scandals studied the phenomenon of growing executive compensation. Mr. Mullainathan, an associate professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said his work showed that executives have wide discretion in their salaries, which do not always reflect merit.
"In the midst of the bubble two years ago, people were less willing to hear this," Mr. Mullainathan said. "Now people are quite willing to accept this because they think of recent scandals."
In a fellowship list sprinkled with under-40 achievers, other notable young winners were the artist Liza Lou, 33, a Californian known for huge installations using thousands of glass beads; Daniela Rus, 39, a roboticist and Dartmouth College professor who works on robots that independently change shapes, depending on their task; and Katherine Boo, 37, a Pulitzer-Prize winning staff writer at The Washington Post.
Charles Steidel, 39, a cosmologist and professor at the California Institute of Technology was recognized by the foundation for work that "substantially expanded our capacity to detect galaxies at the far end of the universe." Mr. Steidel said he was humbled by his award and would probably use the money to pay the graduate students who work with him.
Other winners are: Ann Blair, an intellectual historian; Bonnie Bassler, a molecular ecobiologist; Paul Ginsparg, an Internet publisher and a physicist; David B. Goldstein, an energy conservation specialist and physicist; Karen Hesse, a novelist; Janine Jagger, an epidemiologist; Daniel Jurafsky, a computational linguist; Toba Khedoori, an artist; George Lewis, a trombonist and composer; Liz Lerman, a a choreographer; Edgar Meyer, a bassist and composer; Jack Miles, a literary scholar and critic; Erik Mueggler, an anthropologist; Stanley Nelson, a documentary filmmaker; Lee Ann Newsom, a paleoethnobotanist; and Paul Wennberg, an atmospheric chemist.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The photographer Camilo Jose Vergara, who received an award from the MacArthur Foundation for his images of the World Trade Center. (Filippo Romano)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); HISTORY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); WRITERS (63%); CITY LIFE (63%); CITIES (63%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (57%); SCANDALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



665 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: The Once-a-Year Search For the Perfect Citron 

BYLINE:  By JESSICA STEINBERG 

DATELINE: KADIMA, Israel 

 BODY:
Rafaat Mwasy hefted an etrog in his hand, testing the fruit's size and weight, poking at the thick, bumpy skin with a toothpick, looking for unsightly holes or bruises.
 Seventeen years as an orchard foreman have taught Mr. Mwasy, an Israeli Arab from Baka al-Garbiyeh, a nearby town, what Yossi Ludmir, his Orthodox Jewish boss, looks for in an etrog, or citron fruit. 
 "It's about shape, cleanliness and a perfect stem," he said. "A perfect etrog should be a thing of beauty." 
The global market for the citron, a pulpy cousin of the lemon, is not large. Nearly the only use it has is in celebrating the weeklong Jewish autumn holiday of Sukkot. But what market there is has been dominated by Mr. Ludmir and his family for generations. The family holdings here, some 74 acres of orchards, produce 70 percent of the world's supply.
The whole enterprise -- growing, harvesting, packing and selling -- takes place each year from April through September or October, depending on when Sukkot falls. This year, the holiday came fairly early on the secular calendar; it ends on Sept. 27.
In a typical year, the Ludmirs ship around 100,000 etrogim, as citrons for ritual use are called, to the United States for the brief selling season, and another 70,000 are sold domestically.
Supplies were a little tight this year because of a chilly spring in Israel and the early dates for Sukkot.
When Mr. Mwasy's pickers are busy in the orchards in early September, the etrogim are still green; those destined for export will have time to finish ripening and turn yellow during shipment. But color is not crucial: shape, size, bumps and bruises determine which fruit is acceptable and which is worthless.
Mr. Ludmir, whose father, brothers and cousins are also in the business, handed a few to a group of customers who visited the orchard to choose in person, magnifying glass in hand. 
"They come every year to fulfill the mitzvah of picking their own," Mr. Mwasy said, using the Hebrew term for a positive commandment. "The rabbis want 110 percent."
In the Torah, the Israelites are commanded to celebrate the Sukkot harvest holiday with fruit of "a beautiful tree," an expression that in Hebrew includes the word hadar. Hadar also means citron tree, so over the years rabbis have interpreted the passage to call for etrogim. Etrog is an Aramaic word literally meaning "delightful."
"To the untrained eye, this etrog looks like that etrog," said David Wiseman, an Englishman who wrote a book on etrogim and grows some of his own at his home in Dallas. "But if you're looking closely at every square centimeter with a magnifying glass, you want the minimum number of blemishes."
Some imperfections render the fruit unfit for use in the ritual, when they are shaken in six directions while held with a lulav, palm fronds woven with myrtle and willow branches. Other imperfections merely reduce the fruit's value. Most etrogim sell for $10 to $15 retail; wealthy buyers might pay $1,000 for an especially fine specimen.
Prices like those for an unprepossessing citrus fruit have led some consumers to wonder whether the market has been rigged. With fewer than a dozen growers and dealers selling etrogim on a commercial scale, mutterings about collusion have been heard year after year.
The growers and dealers scoff at the idea, and Mr. Wiseman agrees. "Can two Jews agree on anything, much less the price and supply of etrogim?" he said. "There is competition, and it can be tough. But a cartel? That defies all logic."
Still, it is hardly an unfettered market, because of the religious imperative. "Observant Jews need an etrog, so the normal laws of pricing don't apply, because there's no substitution," said Meir Tamari, a retired Bank of Israel economist who lectures on Jewish business ethics. 
Mr. Tamari said the rabbis who certify that the etrogim are kosher intervened a few years ago to halt a long period of rising prices. They encouraged dealers to begin packing etrogim in sets with lulavs, and to classify them in five grades from basic to choice for ease of comparison.
If there were fat profits to be made in the etrog business, Mr. Tamari said, more growers would jump in. A few have, in Italy, Morocco and Cyprus. But "there isn't an alterative use for it," Mr. Tamari said, so "there is a built-in factor to limit the number of etrogim."
Mr. Ludmir said production costs were rising, especially for water and labor in Israel, and demand had not grown much from year to year. 
Yaacov Charlap runs an etrog distribution business in Kew Gardens, Queens, selling fruit that is grown by his twin brother, Chaim, in Israel as well as some shipped from Italy. He said that his prices had not changed in 10 years.
"It's a tough business," Mr. Charlap said. "You have to enjoy it to be in it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker, above, in an orchard in Israel, harvests etrogs, used in the Jewish holiday Sukkot. A potential buyer, right, examines an etrog for blemishes and other imperfections that can render it worthless. (Photographs by Brian Hendler for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); RELIGION (89%); CONTUSIONS (77%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (76%); FARM LABOR (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%) JEWS; CITRON; SUKKOT (JEWISH HOLIDAY); HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS 

ORGANIZATION: KADIMA (59%)

PERSON: LUDMIR, YOSSI; STEINBERG, JESSICA 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) KADIMA (ISRAEL)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



666 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
Some Suburban Restaurant Chains Are Learning About Life in the City

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Elizabeth Ikner, a manager of the Chili's restaurant nestled in a busy strip of offices and stores in the center of this city's rejuvenated downtown, pivots left, takes a stutter-step and claims some space with a strong move forward, dodging busboys and waitresses. It is 4 o'clock in the afternoon, and the restaurant is nearly empty of customers, but still the workers have little room to maneuver.
 "A lot of people who have been to other Chili's are like, 'Wow, it's a lot smaller,' " Ms. Ikner says. 
 That is one price restaurant companies like Brinker International, owner of the Chili's brand, are paying to move their quintessentially suburban businesses into urban areas and fake-urban town centers. Making it work demands a level of creativity in terms of design and negotiation with developers and municipalities that these companies are only beginning to learn, having purged such complications from their business models at the outset as a matter of strategy. 
There are financial hurdles, too. It can cost twice as much to move into the bottom floor of an office building as to build a preformatted, freestanding and familiar-looking box by a highway in the suburbs.
But the restaurants are motivated to take new risks as they follow population patterns. "They're running out of locations along the highway," said Michael D. Beyard, a senior fellow in retail development at the Urban Land Institute, a research organization based in Washington. "The emphasis of most of the real estate industry is redoing what's already there. You're seeing these erstwhile suburban chains looking for city locations. They have huge gaps in the center of the city where the population is enormous."
McDonald's was a pioneer in adapting its restaurants to convey its brand on city streets. Now the food chains that have blanketed the suburbs with a recipe of established iconography combined with reliably unvarying food and service are following, into a strikingly different world from the one they grew up in. 
Chili's opened its downtown restaurant here in February 2001, and it is in negotiations on a lease in the River North area of downtown Chicago, but Brinker is not alone. The Applebee's chain just opened a fran chise outlet on Flatbush Avenue in the Fort Greene neighborhood of Brooklyn. Carlson Restaurants Worldwide, owner of the T.G.I. Friday's chain, licensed that brand to Riese Restaurants, which has opened eight of the restaurants in Manhattan and has plans for more.
Carlson has also entered a partnership with the Johnson Develop ment Corporation, the inner-city economic development group affiliated with the former basketball star Magic Johnson, to open stores in the Greenbriar section of Atlanta and in the Ladera Heights neighborhood of Los Angeles.
For these types of restaurants, "the building is their prototype, and that's their brand," said Chris C. Maguire, vice president for retail services at the Staubach Group, a real estate services firm. In urban areas, "you get your signage and that's it; they're giving up the red brick building with the green trim."
In Glendale, Colo., a Denver suburb, there is a freestanding 5,440-square-foot, 230-seat Chili's restaurant at a busy intersection near a big Home Depot store that fits that description. It has parking on two sides and a curved bank of eight-paneled windows with wooden blinds. There are red, white and green awnings above the entrance and a big block of forest green tile on a side wall. Floodlights are trained on the lower part of the roof.
Inside, the ceiling is slanted, directing the eye to the television screens hanging around the bar or to the metallic signs, sports jerseys and photographs that litter the walls and shelves. The bar is in the center of the restaurant, and foot traffic flows around and through it. Wooden pillars divide sections of dining tables, and there is a waiting area with cushioned benches. 
In the kitchen, liquor bottles are stacked in accessible cages out in the open, and an icemaker the size of a Renault looms across from the workers' coat rack. 
This is called prototype 5A. It is obsolete, but Chili's built brand recognition by seasoning the countryside with dozens of buildings exactly like this.
Downtown at Ms. Ikner's 5,072-square-foot restaurant, which seats 220, the first difference to strike the eye is the placement of a six-story parking garage directly overhead. There is a large sign shaped like a pepper above the door, a symbol Chili's has developed in the years since it built the Glendale store but one that required a special permit here.
There are 10 outdoor tables (in addition to the 220 seats inside), and the walls of the bar have 12 picture windows to ease the watching of people, not television. There is a separate entrance for pickup orders because this restaurant does the bulk of its business at lunch, serving office workers.
Outside the view of diners, there are other differences. The ventilation system tunnels through all seven levels of the parking garage, finally ending in a Y-shaped metal chimney with a fanning system. Rigid supports hold the overhead lights, as opposed to the light cords used in the suburbs, because cars drive overhead and shake the ceiling. Behind the kitchen, dry storage, chips, the soda system and the ice dispenser are crammed into a box 6 feet by 8 feet, a quarter of the space they would receive in the suburbs. 
There is a closed-circuit television system by the door, because the dry- storage area leads directly to a somewhat publicly accessible part of the parking garage.
Six cooks share two worktables. Beer kegs are stacked atop one another, and they must be moved if one hopes to retrieve a wine bottle.
At both restaurants, the color scheme features the same shades of forest green and dusky red, whether it is done in paint or stain, tile or varnish. A photograph of a beauty queen from a long-ago chili cook-off adorns the walls of both restaurants.
"We can't put our replicable prototype in there," said Jeffrey C. Wood, vice president for real estate and development for Brinker. "The goal is when a guest from Texas, New York or California goes into a Chili's in Denver, they say it looks like a Chili's, it feels like a Chili's."
Absent, too, in the cities, are many of the financial advantages available in the suburbs. These types of chains are accustomed to buying a piece of raw land and developing it, then selling the real estate to a third party like a real estate investment trust and becoming a tenant. Such tactics, called leasebacks, are used to free millions of dollars in working capital, which the chains then recycle for the next development.
In the city, said David McArdle, an appraiser for the real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield, "it becomes a leasing game." 
And in big cities like New York, that game is competitive. The restaurants are confronting financial barriers they had not previously contemplated, including a lack of contiguous space, security deposits, union wages, delivery costs and permit expeditors.
"It can easily cost twice as much," said Andrew J. Moger, president of Branded Concept Development, a consulting firm in New York. "The ones that are suburban-based are trying to figure it out." 
Chains like Chili's can afford to experiment only by the grace of Brinker's strong bond ratings and its stock performance. The company is not intent upon freeing up capital from one development to the next, Mr. Wood said. In the suburbs, 60 percent of its real estate transactions involve purchases, not leasebacks.
The financial terms of the development process are also typically less favorable to the restaurant companies when they rent space in an urban setting than in a typical suburban shopping center.
According to Chili's executives, the suburban shopping-center developers with whom they deal typically seek a 10 percent return on their land. Above that they also seek to increase the asset value of their investment by lending to the restaurant companies, to be repaid in the form of higher rent, thereby increasing the value of the shopping center. Developers, Mr. Wood said, typically expect a 12 to 13 percent return on these loans. Because Brinker's cost of capital is below 13 percent, Mr. Wood said, the company usually forgoes such loans. 
Here in Denver, however, Brinker did not borrow money from the developer, and it signed a 10-year lease with three 5-year renewal options.
"When we negotiate leases with landlords in the suburbs, it's much easier to negotiate from a point of strength that, hey, it's my money," Mr. Wood said. In the city, he added, "the landlord has more leverage."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chili's restaurants in downtown areas, like this one in Denver, have adapted to cramped environments. For a chain, renovating a building in an urban area can be twice as costly as building a structure in the suburbs. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) Chart: "Data Update"Value of construction contracts for nonresidential buildings by region. Seasonally adjusted annual rate through August. Graph tracks the value of the contracts (regionally in billions) for the South, Northeast, Midwest, and West from 2000-2002. NATIONAL IN BILLIONSAUGUST '01: $158.3JUNE '02: 157.8JULY '02: 138.7AUGUST '02: 154.8 (Source: F. W. Dodge/McGraw-Hill Construction) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (94%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); BASKETBALL (60%) RESTAURANTS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: BRINKER INTERNATIONAL INC (91%); APPLEBEE'S INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BRINKER INTERNATIONAL; CHILI'S RESTAURANTS; APPLEBEE'S INTERNATIONAL INC; CARLSON RESTAURANTS WORLDWIDE INC; TGI FRIDAY'S 

TICKER: EAT (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



667 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET-- Brooklyn; 
Medical Center Project To Nurture Biotechnology

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
For David Gershon, chief scientific officer at a biotechnology company on Long Island, the drive twice a week from his Greenvale office to a cramped laboratory at City College in Manhattan was a routine he longed to break. 
 Soon he will do so, combining his company's lab and office in a single, larger home. His company, Redox Pharmaceutical, is one of four that have signed on as tenants at the Advanced Biotechnology Incubator being developed in phases adjacent to and linked with the SUNY Downstate Medical Center in the East Flatbush section of Brooklyn. 
 Redox, which develops drugs to fight viruses that attack the eye as well as those that are sexually transmitted, will take 2,500 square feet in the $4.4 million, 10,160-square-foot first phase of the incubator building, which is now under construction. Ultimately the complex is to have 50,000 square feet, cost $19.2 million and hold up to 30 companies. 
The project will rise on an old industrial site on Parkside Avenue, near the university's 11-acre Clarkson Avenue campus. The developer, the Health Science Center at Brooklyn Foundation, a university-related nonprofit, bought the site for $1.2 million and is using public financing for the initial phase, which is expected to be completed by March. 
Mr. Gershon said his company did not move sooner because of the scarcity and expense of lab space in New York City, which he and others view as a deterrent to the growth of biotechnology in the city. "If we didn't find this," he said, "we would have moved outside of the city."
Stemming the flow out of the city of companies like Mr. Gershon's is one aim of the incubator, which is intended to marry research and commerce and, in turn, promote economic development. A consortium of borough, state and private groups, including Con Edison, has also been formed to assist companies graduating from the incubator to find manufacturing space and other services. 
The incubator will be the second in the city. The first, with 100,000 square feet, is the Audubon Biomedical Science and Technology Center at Columbia, which opened in 1995 and now includes two research buildings totaling 479,000 square feet. 
It also is the cornerstone of a planned 10-year, $200 million university-related science park that would turn two industrial blocks near Downstate's Brooklyn campus into 500,000 square feet of research, lab and office space. The state university owns or leases six properties on those blocks, including a parking lot, that would be converted or razed to make way for the park, the future of which hinges on financing. 
The university already has leased space in one of its warehouses, 710 Parkside Avenue, to a new division of ImClone Systems, which is building 12,000 square feet of lab space despite its parent company's continuing legal and financial troubles. 
The Brooklyn incubator "is a small step, but a step forward," said Karin A. Duncker, executive director of the New York Biotechnology Association, a statewide trade group. Her group reports there are 89 biotechnology companies in the state, with 27, employing 600 people, in New York City. Data from the New York City Investment Fund, a private effort intended to stimulate job growth, show that 30 businesses a year emerge from the city's top nine research institutions, but most migrate to other states.
A few other biotechnology developments have been proposed. They include Columbia's plan for a new commercial building at its Audubon Center and an effort led by the New York University medical school for what would be the East River Science Park on First Avenue between 28th and 29th Streets in Manhattan. Each would be on city-owned sites, according to the city Economic Development Corporation, which is leasing the sites to the developers. 
Planning for the Brooklyn incubator began two years ago. Designed by Karlsberger Architecture of Columbus, Ohio, with offices in Manhattan, the incubator will offer wet and dry labs, offices and clinical space. Most of the financing for the first phase, $4 million, came from the city's capital budget; the rest came from state and federal sources. 
Having construction under way will help the development because "it shows the incubator is happening and that will feed on itself," said Eva Cramer, vice president for biotechnology and scientific affairs at SUNY Downstate. She said that most of the $2.6 million had been raised for the second phase, of 6,200 square feet.
Building the incubator in phases as the financing is secured, means each phase will also be debt free, enabling the university to charge modest rents of $25 a square foot, Dr. Cramer added.

GRAPHIC: Map of Brooklyn highlighting the site of the new laboratory complex: SUNY Downstate is developing property in the East Flatbush neighborhood to foster the growth of biotechnology in New York City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; BIOTECHNOLOGY; RESEARCH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%) REDOX PHARMACEUTICAL; ADVANCED BIOTECHNOLOGY INCUBATOR; SUNY DOWNSTATE MEDICAL CENTER; HEALTH SCIENCE CENTER (SUNY) 

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



668 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Predators at the Door 

 BODY:
Low-income homeowners can be easy targets for unscrupulous lenders. They are frequently forced to refinance their mortgages in the so-called subprime market, where interest rates are higher. Too often, such loans are also loaded with conditions -- including excessive fees and balloon payments -- that are potentially ruinous to the borrower. The victims, disproportionately, are the elderly, African-Americans and immigrants. 
 Subprime lenders minimize their risk and maximize their returns by selling loans in bundles to large financial companies -- known as the secondary market -- which in turn sell them as investments. According to a study by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, securities backed by subprime mortgages increased from $11 billion in 1994 to $83 billion in 1998. It's big business. Unscrupulous lenders often work with mortgage brokers and home-improvement contractors to lure customers. In a typical scheme, a contractor approaches the homeowner, suggesting expensive repairs and offering the name of a broker who can arrange an equity loan. 
 In New York City, where the problem is especially acute, the City Council is expected to vote today on a bill that would prohibit the city from doing business with any financial institution that engages, directly or indirectly, in predatory lending. The measure does not aim to kill the subprime financing business -- which, when legitimate, is an essential tool for community development. But it would extract the bad apples. It would require companies in the secondary market to review a sampling of loans given at an interest rate of six or more points above the prime, focusing on ZIP codes where predatory lenders do business. Where abusive lending has occurred, financial companies will have an opportunity to fix their practices before they are cut off from doing city business.
The City Council bill would require more work from banks, which are lobbying against the proposal, even threatening to pull out of the subprime market, and they're getting a sympathetic hearing in City Hall. But clearly any system that allows the poor and unsuspecting to be bilked needs fixing. The City Council has offered a creative and laudable solution. The banks, as good corporate citizens, should work with the legislators to make it work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITIES (89%); FAIR LENDING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (87%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); HOME REMODELING (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); LEGISLATION (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); LOBBYING (66%); CONSUMER LAW (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) HOUSING; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; CREDIT; MORTGAGES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



669 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Dow Plunges To 4-Year Low After Dissent On Fed Panel

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average plunged to a four-year low yesterday, as investors digested a surprise dissent from two Federal Reserve policy makers.
 Two members of the Federal Open Market Committee, which met yesterday to discuss interest rate policy, voted against the decision of the majority of the committee to keep the Fed's benchmark interest rate at 1.75 percent. They wanted to reduce it. 
 The dissent, from Edward Gramlich, a Fed governor, and Robert McTeer, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, was read both negatively and positively by investors, as was evident in the gyrations in the market after the 2:15 p.m. announcement. But by the end of the session, it appeared that the negative interpretation was holding sway for now. 
The Dow dropped 189.02 points, or 2.4 percent, to 7,683.13, its lowest close since October 1998, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 14.41 points, or 1.7 percent, to 819.29. The Nasdaq composite index, which eked out small gains earlier in the day, slipped 2.76 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,182.17, a six-year low.
Both the Dow and the Nasdaq are now below the levels they fell to in the summer, when the overall market dropped to a five-year low. The S.& P. 500 is just 21.59 points above the five-year low it reached in July.
Investors were also faced yesterday with another dose of weak data on the economy as consumer confidence declined and there were more disappointments on corporate earnings.
The negative reading of the dissenting votes at the central bank is that there are policy makers who think economic performance is weak enough to require another rate cut to assure the recovery continues. That means without a rate cut, growth could slow and corporate earnings expectations, which are already falling, could drop further.
The positive reading is that the unusual dissent makes it more likely that other policy makers will support a rate cut at the next committee meeting in November if economic data continues to be disappointing.
Louis Crandall, the chief economist at Wrightson Associates, took the positive view. The dissents, he said, "make clear that a rate cut is an option" at the next Fed meeting in November. Recent public comments of Fed policy makers had led many analysts to conclude that a rate cut was unlikely then.
The Fed officials may have added to the negative sentiment in the market by saying that the pace of the recovery and job growth is uncertain because of "the emergence of heightened geopolitical risks," a reference that has to include a possible war with Iraq. Investors could interpret this to mean that a war could temporarily derail the recovery.
As stocks tumbled, interest rates moved even lower. These low rates are giving a lift to the economy by stimulating both home and auto sales and mortgage refinancing.
The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note fell to 3.65 percent in late afternoon from 3.70 percent on Monday. It was the lowest yield on a government security with a 10-year maturity in more than 40 years, according to the Federal Reserve. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 15/32, to 106. The yield on the Treasury's two-year note fell to 1.87 percent from 1.90 percent.
The consumer confidence index compiled by the Conference Board fell to 93.3 in September from 94.5 in August; it is down for the fourth consecutive month. Consumer spending accounts for about two-thirds of the economy.
The bad news on earnings came from several companies. Weyerhaeuser, the wood-products company, said that earnings for the third quarter would range from 5 cents to 10 cents a share, well below the 35 cents a share expected on Wall Street. It stock fell $5.94, or 11.9 percent, to $43.79.
Maytag said that its earnings would be 65 cents to 70 cents a share. Analysts were forecasting 79 cents a share. Its stock fell $1.22, or 5 percent, to $23.10.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a four-week bill:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.874
High Rate: 1.625
Coupon Yield: 1.645
Low Rate: 1.580
Median Rate: 1.615
Total applied for: $46,316,774
Accepted: $21,075,649
Noncompetitive: $51,501

The four-week bills mature Oct. 24.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C13) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); COUNTRY RISK (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); IRAQ WAR (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) ;FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; GRAMLICH, EDWARD M; MCTEER, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



670 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Hearings Set On Measure To Promote Digital TV

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
The House Energy and Commerce Committee will hold hearings today on a bill intended to spur the development of digital television. It would render most current televisions obsolete by 2007 and require the Federal Communications Commission to support copy-protection technology designed to prevent consumers from copying and redistributing digital television programs.
 Tomorrow, the House Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet and Intellectual Property has scheduled a hearing on another bill, introduced by Representative Howard L. Berman, Democrat of California, that would protect entertainment companies that begin technological attacks against people trading copyrighted material over the Internet. 
 Digital delivery through broadcast and the Internet is seen as a potential boon to the economy. Wider adoption of broadband Internet services would help the beleaguered telecommunications industry, and the government plans to auction off billions of dollars of analog TV spectrum for other uses as soon as broadcasters make the switch to digital signals. 
But consumer groups contend that the proposals signal a troublesome willingness in Congress to favor the interests of copyright holders over those of consumers in the face of new technology. 
"Here we have technology that was supposed to enhance the consumer experience, expand their ability to use media, and now we find we're going in the exact opposite direction," said Mark Cooper, research director at the Consumer Federation of America. 
Mr. Cooper's organization argues that the draft bill on digital television circulated by Representative Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana, would make millions of existing videocassette recorders inoperable and force consumers to pay for more expensive equipment.
But Mr. Tauzin said the real harm to consumers came from struggles among broadcasters, cable operators and entertainment and consumer electronics companies over how to make the transition to digital television. Digital TV promises to improve picture quality markedly and provide viewers with CD-quality audio, more channels and interactivity.
"Time is passing," said Mr. Tauzin, who has urged industry representatives to reach a solution themselves. "We obviously want people to come in and tell us -- if this is not the right solution, can you find a better one? And by the way, can you find it soon?"
Neither measure is expected to pass before the November elections, but the debate that unfolds in this week's hearings is viewed as a marker for legislation to come up in the next term of Congress.
The Tauzin proposal would force broadcasters to stop sending conventional analog television signals by Dec. 31, 2006, and its deadline could not be extended. Under current law, TV stations may continue using airwaves earmarked for analog signals until 85 percent of households in their market have digital TV sets. 
But the transition has been slow. Only about three million digital sets -- which currently can cost thousands of dollars -- have been sold, and fewer than one-third of broadcast TV stations are transmitting digitally.
To speed things along, the F.C.C. last month ordered TV manufacturers to install digital tuners in most sets by 2007. Some TV makers have said they will fight the move, which they say will drive up the price of the average television set by more than $250.
Because that debate is likely to unfold in court, consumer groups are focusing on the provision in the Tauzin proposal that would require the F.C.C. to support copy-protection technology known as a broadcast flag. Designed to prevent TV viewers from redistributing material over the Internet, the technology could also be used to prevent consumers from recording shows or watching them where and when they choose. 
The trade-off between thwarting Internet piracy and impinging on the way consumers interact with technology is also at issue in the Berman bill. Under the proposal, copyright owners would be free to use any technology to disable, block or impair their works from being pirated on a file-sharing network, provided that they did not damage users' computers or block other files.
"Will consumers have any reasonable recourse if they are the target of such an attack?" said Alan Davidson, associate director of the Center for Democracy and Technology, a consumer rights advocacy group. "All of these may be very well-intentioned bills, but they have far-reaching impact on how consumers watch television and use phones and computers. We have to find a way to have a dialogue that has not taken place so far on Capitol Hill on what those implications are." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL TELEVISION (94%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); COPYRIGHT (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BROADBAND (74%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%) TELEVISION; DIGITAL AND HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION; COPYRIGHTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RECORDING EQUIPMENT; VIDEOCASSETTE RECORDERS (VCR); RECORDINGS (VIDEO) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; CONSUMER FEDERATION OF AMERICA 

PERSON: HOWARD L BERMAN (73%) HARMON, AMY; BERMAN, HOWARD L (REP); TAUZIN, BILLY (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



671 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Rite Aid Narrows Loss in 2nd Quarter 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: HARRISBURG, Pa., Sept. 24 

 BODY:
The Rite Aid Corporation, one of the nation's largest drugstore chains, reported a smaller loss for the second quarter than it had a year earlier and narrowly beat Wall Street's expectations.
 The company said today that it lost $105.3 million, or 21 cents a share, in the three months ended Aug. 31, compared with a loss of $245.9 million, or 54 cents a share, for the period last year. 
 Excluding one-time items, its loss would have been $49.7 million, or 10 cents a share. The average forecast by analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had been for a loss of 13 cents a share before one-time items. Revenue was $3.9 billion, compared with $3.7 billion a year earlier.
Analysts said they were encouraged by the company's nearly 27 percent gain in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That figure rose to $125.4 million from $99 million.
"On a cash-flow basis, it was a pretty good quarter," said Eric Bosshard, an analyst with Midwest Research.
Sales at stores open for at least a year increased 7.1 percent over the previous year, fueled by a 10.8 percent increase in sales of prescription drugs and a 1.3 percent gain in sales of general merchandise.
Interest expense for the quarter was $85 million, compared with $102.4 million a year earlier. The company attributed the lower costs to a significant debt reduction from a refinancing in June 2001 and lower interest rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (91%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); EBITDA (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) COMPANY REPORTS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); DRUGSTORES 

COMPANY: RITE AID CORP (97%)

ORGANIZATION: RITE AID CORP 

TICKER: RAD (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (97%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (97%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (97%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (97%) SIC5912 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



672 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Text of Statement by the Fed 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Open Market Committee, decided to leave interest rates unchanged: 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate unchanged at 1 3/4 percent. 
 The information that has become available since the last meeting of the committee suggests that aggregate demand is growing at a moderate pace. 
Over time, the current accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with still robust underlying growth in productivity, should be sufficient to foster an improving business climate. However, considerable uncertainty persists about the extent and timing of the expected pickup in production and employment owing in part to the emergence of heightened geopolitical risks. 
Consequently, the committee believes that for the foreseeable future, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness. 
Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; William J. McDonough, vice chairman; Ben S. Bernanke; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Jerry L. Jordan; Donald L. Kohn; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero, and Gary H. Stern. 
Voting against the action were: Edward M. Gramlich and Robert D. McTeer Jr. 
Governor Gramlich and President McTeer preferred a reduction in the target for the federal funds rate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



673 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Times Square, With Ketchup; 
No Cloning, Lots of Razzle-Dazzle at New McDonald's

BYLINE:  By LINDA LEE 

 BODY:
It is commonplace for new restaurants in New York to hire publicists, to have the tryout periods known as soft openings and to wallow in industrial materials, plasma screens and bare brick walls. So the surprise at the splashy 17,000-square-foot restaurant in Times Square that officially opens today with such pretensions (but without a red velvet rope) is the name over the door: McDonald's.
 The decor -- big on I-beams, rivets and brushed steel -- is a leap from the red and yellow plastic of the earlier McDonald's, and far from the mass fabrication of the restaurant's food. That's because the McDonald's corporation, once the enforcer of a clonelike 1950's uniformity, now takes a do-your-own-thing attitude about decoration. 
 Long gone are the days when historic towns worried about a McDonald's adapting and blending in. In Port Jefferson, N.Y., a McDonald's is tucked behind a dormered roof and coach lights. A McDonald's in Phoenix went with an Aztec theme, and included an original earthenware mosaic from Puebla, Mexico, of the Virgin of Guadalupe. And a McDonald's that opened last December in Orlando, Fla., hoped to attract older and wealthier patrons with its French provincial decor, tea-stained lighting, framed Impressionist reproductions, flower arrangements and marble-topped buffet.
In Times Square, where the neighbors sport neon walls beneath five-story television screens, fitting in means showing off. Thus a giant new marquee on West 42nd Street spells out McDonald's in 7,500 lights, more wattage than required by the 42nd Street Redevelopment Project. 
"You could get a sunburn standing under it," said Charles Morris Mount, the restaurant's designer.
The three-story interior of the restaurant is meant to look like the backstage of a Broadway theater, complete with theatrical light fixtures with "barn door" flaps and colored gels. And the 12-foot-wide doorway to this McDonald's will always remain open, in blazing heat and bitter cold, thanks to a million-B.T.U. curtain of air that will keep outside weather outside -- "unless there's a windstorm," said Irwin Kruger, 54, who owns this location and six others in Manhattan. (In case of foul weather, giant folding doors can be closed.) The restaurant, which has 300 seats, hopes to entice customers through the air curtain with the smell of fresh minidoughnuts made at a rate of 2,000 an hour by a machine visible from the street. 
Things have been rough in McDonaldland for several years. Too many fast-food competitors and a sagging economy have led to a poor outlook on earnings. (McDonald's stock has recently been trading at a seven-year low.) The company has settled suits over too-hot coffee and beef flavoring in its fries. Last year the Federal Bureau of Investigation arrested eight people in connection with fraud in a McDonald's promotional Monopoly game. And last week the company recalled a pair of bobble-head figurines of football players because they contained lead paint.
As of last year, Subway sandwich shops had surpassed the number of McDonald's restaurants in the United States (perhaps that's because no one has yet invented the McDonald's Diet).
In an attempt to cover its bets, McDonald's has invested in some nonhamburger fast-food businesses, including Pret a Manger sandwich shops, Donato's pizza and Chipotle Mexican food. Nonetheless, with the right location and razzle-dazzle, a McDonald's can still be a gold mine. Mr. Kruger says that his six other McDonald's restaurants, all designed by Mr. Mount, earn considerably more than the $1.5 million average for American McDonald's sites. The 42nd Street location, he says, is on track to earn $5 million a year.
A born New Yorker, he put his new McDonald's in the landmark Candler Building, between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, which has a historic connection to McDonald's official soft drink purveyor. The 23-story skyscraper was built in 1914 for the head of the Coca-Cola Company, Asa Candler, and once included the Sam H. Harris theater, where in 1922 John Barrymore and Tyrone Power Sr. performed in "Hamlet." 
Mr. Kruger and his designer knew that the restaurant materials would have to stand up to kicking toddlers, bored teenagers, umbrellas, briefcases and mischief. On top of this, they are offering what may be the most accessible new restrooms in the city, just steps from the 41st Street entrance. "They are heavily used, and convenient," said Mr. Kruger, whose restaurant has been open unofficially for weeks. "You see people hurrying in, and they have that look."
The restrooms have resilient porcelain pavers on the floor, and the mirrors are small rather than continuous, so damaged panels can be replaced inexpensively.
In a long corridor running from 42nd Street to 41st Street, plasma screen monitors above a Corian counter have been encased in brushed steel boxes and covered with a quarter-inch plate of clear Lexan. Music videos, movie trailers, clips from Broadway shows and historical tidbits will play on the monitors.
"You can hang on them, stand on them, they won't break," Mr. Kruger said.
In the front of the store, the walls were stripped back to bare brick and sealed. Soaring columns are clad in blue reflective glass tile. The walls in the corridor to 41st Street are covered in a gray vinyl called Lonseal that looks like diamond-plate subway grating. The material, much lighter than steel diamond plate, is used as flooring on Navy submarines, but Mr. Kruger said he thought it needed to be tested further. "We put it down on a driveway, and an employee ran his car over it," Mr. Kruger said. "We tried to gouge it with a knife and a couple of screwdrivers. I'm sure it will withstand the busy customer flow we're going to have."
The most prominent structural change was cutting away part of the second floor to create a space nearly 40 feet tall -- Beyer Blinder Belle is the architect -- and the building of twin staircases that climb three floors. (An elevator provides handicapped access, but escalators were deemed "too much like a mall," Mr. Mount said.)
The staircase railings were made of rebar, the twisted steel rods used to reinforce concrete. A mezzanine level has small tables and aluminum chairs made in Italy. At the top, near the windows on 42nd Street, are two communal tables, where 40 customers may dine together.
Down the road, Mr. Kruger said, why not send 10-second video postcards by computer to friends all over the world from the Times Square McDonald's? Why not offer space for PowerPoint presentations in a private dining room on the top floor? And what would Times Square be without entertainment? "It could be a lot of fun to find actors 'in transition' who've got outgoing personalities," Mr. Kruger said, "who could engage some of our customers in a karaoke moment."
With all the new buildings in Times Square, he said, foot traffic will only increase to the Port Authority bus terminal down the block. "There's Conde Nast and the new Boston Properties," he said. "We've got white collar, tourists, theatrical, blue collar. I'm thrilled to be in the location we're in."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A giant new marquee on West 42nd Street spells out McDonald's in 7,500 lights. "You could get a sunburn standing under it," said Charles Morris Mount, the designer. Right, a corridor from 42nd Street to 41st, where monitors show music videos and movie clips. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B1); At the top of the new restaurant, windows overlook 42nd Street. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (68%); THEATER & DRAMA (64%); WEATHER (60%); THEATER (50%) RESTAURANTS 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: MCDONALD'S CORP 

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

PERSON: LEE, LINDA; MOUNT, CHARLES MORRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%) NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42ND STREET (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



674 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Fed to Keep Rates Steady With Rare Dissenting Votes
The Federal Reserve voted to leave interest rates unchanged, but two of its 12 voting members took the rare step of opposing the decision and instead backed an immediate rate cut.
 It was the first time since 1998 that two Fed policy makers have simultaneously broken ranks with Alan Greenspan, the chairman. The split decision was a clear indication that Fed officials, like economists generally, are divided over how to deal with the fears of further weakness in the economy. Page A1. 

Dynegy to Settle Civil Charges
Dynegy agreed to pay $3 million to settle civil Securities and Exchange Commission charges that the company had used a series of off-balance-sheet partnerships to doctor its financial statements and mislead investors. C6.

Xerox Shares Plummet on Inquiry
Investors sent shares of Xerox down 71 cents to $5.96, on reports that the United States attorney in Connecticut had started a criminal investigation into its accounting. Five months ago, Xerox paid $10 million to settle a Securities and Exchange Commission charge of fraudulent accounting. C13.

Federal Panel Backs Cancer Drug
An advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration recommended approval of AstraZeneca's cancer drug Iressa despite concerns about the drug's effectiveness. C2.

Danco Laboratories, distributor of Mifeprex, the abortion-inducing pill once known as RU-486, said over 100,000 women in America had used the drug since November 2000. In that time, 2.6 million women had abortions. A1.

Airline Officials Make Their Case
Airline executives asked a House subcommittee to consider tax relief, reimbursement for security costs and an extension of terrorism insurance policies. Lawmakers said they were considering a bill this week. C12.

Deloitte Chief to Retire Next Year
James E. Copeland Jr., the chief executive of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, one of the four remaining large accounting firms, told his partners that he would step down next year. C4.

Companies Settle Asbestos Suits
Hundreds of corporations swept into a huge asbestos trial in West Virginia have settled claims brought by some 8,000 people over the last week, lawyers said. C12.

Executives Worried About Swaps
In Congressional testimony, current and former executives of Global Crossing and Qwest Communications indicated that people in the companies had qualms about swaps of fiber optic network capacity that are now at the heart of federal investigations. C4.

The House Energy and Commerce Committee will hold hearings on a bill intended to spur the development of digital television. C7.

Vivendi Seen Focusing on Telecom
The chairman of Vivendi Universal, Jean-Rene Fourtou, left, intends to recommend to the board today that the company focus more on broadcasting and telecommunications and less on water supply and waste treatment operations, the chief of the water unit said. People close to Mr. Fourtou said this strategy meant reducing a stake in the water unit. World Business, Section W.

Hershey Promotes Its Flagship Bar
After the end of a bitter takeover battle that riveted Wall Street, Hershey Foods is talking to Main Street with a drastically different campaign for its flagship product.
Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C6.

Restaurant Chains Move to the City
Restaurant chains like Chili's are moving their quintessentially suburban businesses into urban areas and faux-urban town centers. The costs are higher but the chains are motivated to take risks as they follow population patterns. Commercial Real Estate. C9.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 7,683.13 down 189.02Nasdaq composite -- 1,182.17 down 2.7610-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.65% down 0.05The euro -- $0.9813 up 0.0036The dollar -- 123.33 yen down 0.46 Graph tracks share prices of Xerox for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (88%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); CANCER (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (74%); INSURANCE POLICIES (72%); TESTIMONY (71%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (71%); CANCER DRUGS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); ABORTION (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); ASBESTOS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TOXIC TORTS (66%); TAX LAW (64%); AIRLINES (64%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (60%); FIBER OPTICS (60%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (50%); TERRORISM (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (83%); VIVENDI (80%); DELOITTE LLP (69%); DYNEGY INC (57%); XEROX CORP (56%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (55%); CENTURYLINK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (80%); VIV (BIT) (80%); DYN (NYSE) (57%); XRX (NYSE) (56%); AZN (STO) (55%); AZN (NYSE) (55%); AZN (LSE) (55%); CTL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (83%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (80%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



675 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS; 
Teacher Shortages Are Usually a Myth

BYLINE:  By Richard Rothstein 

 BODY:
EDUCATION analysts often say the nation faces a looming teacher shortage. Growing enrollment and the retirement of baby-boom teachers will aggravate the need, as will a new federal law that bans unqualified teachers.
 But this year in New York City, the shortage mostly disappeared, despite the difficult conditions in many urban schools. Qualified teachers flocked to New York for starting salaries of $39,000 a year, up from $32,000 in 2001. Those with experience elsewhere started as high as $61,000. Certified teachers left parochial schools, the suburbs and other professions to work for the city. A slow economy helped by offering college graduates fewer options in the private sector. 
 New York's experience suggests there never was a shortage, only an unwillingness of qualified teachers to work at previous pay levels. This will come as no surprise to economists, who say that real shortages are rare in a market economy. At the right price, supply grows to meet demand. There might have been a temporary real shortage if there were no qualified teachers willing to work at any price. But this was never the case. 
Nationwide, only about two-thirds of new education graduates take teaching jobs. Of those who do teach, nearly one-third quit within five years. Although some may have been unsuited for the role, many leave education because they get better offers elsewhere. So there is a big pool of qualified teachers out there, ready to re-enter the profession when the price is right.
The shortage seems more real in some specialties: high school math and science, special and bilingual education and schools in high-poverty communities. But here too, there is no actual shortage.
Teachers in middle-class areas will move to disadvantaged schools if salaries in poor neighborhoods rise above suburban rates. The differential has to be big enough to compensate for the greater skill and dedication required. Professionals in other fields, including those with math and science degrees, will take up teaching if salaries in education are competitive. If apparent shortages remain, schools can raise salaries in shortage areas to induce college students to major in fields where lucrative teaching jobs beckon.
An impediment to this market solution is the tradition of paying all teachers on a common scale. This makes no economic sense. If it is harder to find high school math than English teachers, salaries for teaching math should rise. The gap should grow until the math shortage eases. Likewise, with a surplus of suburban elementary school teachers and a shortage of urban ones, urban schools should pay more than suburban ones until the supply is balanced.
Impeding this approach is how we typically finance schools. Urban districts often depend on property taxes for revenue and cannot raise salaries to compete with property-rich suburban neighbors. So federal and state subsidies for urban teacher salaries are needed.
Yet for three decades, urban school leaders in many states have pressed for such subsidies, with only inconsistent success. In New York, the candidates for governor, H. Carl McCall and Gov. George E. Pataki, are now sparring about whether to oppose a court decision that said the state had no constitutional duty to expand its subsidies for urban schools.
Another difficulty is the reluctance of teachers' unions to negotiate different pay for different specialties. Union leaders fear this will lead to bad feelings. But all social differentials can create bad feelings. In fact, that is the idea. If teachers in surplus areas feel badly enough, they will become certified in shortage areas.
Local, state and federal policies are taking small steps in this direction. New York City teachers can get a 15 percent bonus for work at the most difficult schools. The state has a program that provides an added $3,400 a year for such assignments.
Many states now subsidize the tuition of prospective teachers who agree to work in shortage areas. The federal government sells some housing at half-price to teachers who not only teach but live in poor neighborhoods. California gives certificates for a federal income tax credit to those who teach in shortage areas.
Bills now before Congress would give income tax credits to teachers in low-income schools. But the amounts are tiny ($1,000 in the Senate version, $2,000 in the House), too small to induce much growth in supply. The bills also do not provide incentives for teachers, other professionals and college students to switch fields to subject areas that are most in need.
But the bills take steps in the right direction. They acknowledge that a real shortage is mythical. If demand for teachers is bolstered with enough new dollars, supply will emerge to soak those dollars up.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (98%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); MATHEMATICS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (79%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (79%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (79%); MULTILINGUALISM (79%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (79%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (79%); CITIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; SHORTAGES 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



676 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 998 words

PERSON: Mike Webster 

HEADLINE: Mike Webster, 50, Dies; Troubled Football Hall of Famer 

BYLINE:  By FRANK LITSKY 

 BODY:
Mike Webster, whose Hall of Fame pro football career was followed by more than a decade of physical and psychological turmoil apparently brought on by repeated blows to the head on the field, died yesterday in a Pittsburgh hospital. He was 50.
 The cause of death was a heart attack, the Pittsburgh Steelers said. Webster played center for 15 seasons (1974-88) for the Steelers and two seasons (1989-90) for the Kansas City Chiefs. In 1997, he was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio, and in 2000 he was named to the National Football League's all-time team. 
 Webster was a pivotal player on the standout Steeler teams that captured four Super Bowl championships in the 1970's. He was an undersized 225-pound center at the University of Wisconsin who lingered in the N.F.L. draft until the fifth round, when he was selected by the Steelers. He transformed himself into a 260-pound tough-minded professional, a man known as Iron Mike who played bare-armed in freezing weather and helped set the tone for a Pittsburgh offense that included the future Hall of Famers Terry Bradshaw, Franco Harris, Lynn Swann and John Stallworth.
Of the 22 players who were part of all four Steeler Super Bowl teams, Webster was the last to leave and the first to die.
"I couldn't have been the player I was without him," Bradshaw said. "He was so smart, so prepared for everything we would face in a game. We all worked hard, but none as hard as Mike did."
Chuck Noll, his Steelers coach, said, "He was very smart, a great technician."
But Webster's transition to post-football life was filled with setbacks. He increasingly lived away from home, sometimes sleeping in his car. His marriage broke up. He lost money in bad investments. He was often reclusive.
In 1997, just before his Hall of Fame induction, his troubled life became public, and he told The Atlanta Journal and Constitution: "Because of all this publicity over my situation, people treat me like I'm dying or something. And I don't want their pity. Things in general, they're getting a lot better."
At the time, The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported that Webster was "homeless, unemployed, deep in debt, beset with medical ailments, lacking health insurance, in the midst of divorce, in the care of a psychiatrist and on medication, and involved in a complex lawsuit over real estate investments."
But Webster tried to reassure people that his life was not as damaged as it seemed. "I don't think it's anybody's business," he said of his problems. "I'm not destitute." And responding to reports that he had lived in his car for 18 months, he told The St. Petersburg Times:
"From time to time, yes, I did sleep in my car and stay in my car. There's a broad definition of what living out of your car is. And yes, I slept in a train station one time. I had some things to think through. I wasn't broke. I wasn't in danger. I was just out of gas, tired and exhausted, and that's as far as I got that day."
In 1999, Webster was charged with forging 19 prescriptions to obtain Ritalin, a stimulant mainly used for children with attention deficit hyperactivity. He said he was using the drug to treat brain damage caused by repeated head injuries that had led him to behave erratically.
Webster's doctors said that the concussions Webster had in his career had indeed damaged his frontal lobe, causing cognitive dysfunction, and that his attention span and concentration had been affected.
Webster also stated that in his playing days he had tried anabolic steroids -- illegal body-building substances that can cause health problems -- but he maintained they were not responsible for his condition.
"I am not seeking your pity or sympathy," he said at a news conference at the time. "I'm not seeking a pardon for my actions, and I'm not really asking for your understanding, even though grown men need understanding. But I do promise you this: No matter what happens, I will answer the charges."
During that same period, Dr. Fred Jay Krieg, a clinical psychologist, said Webster had "the football version of punch drunk."
"It doesn't get better," Krieg added. "You get more and more demented. It's sad."
In September 1999, Webster pleaded no contest to the forgery charges and was placed on probation for five years. Later, he was treated for depression and symptoms of congestive heart failure.
Two years ago, Webster's son Garrett moved from Wisconsin to live with him in Pittsburgh. The son, at 6 feet 9 inches and 340 pounds, is a high school senior and an offensive lineman on his football team.
"I have to take care of my dad," he said a week ago. "There will be some mornings he can't get up from the couch because he feels so terrible."
Webster's erratic habits and continued absences contributed to a breakup of his marriage, and his former wife, Pamela, said she had to sell their house and car and take a job as a cleaning woman.
Webster is also survived by two sons, Colin of Camp LeJeune, N.C., and Garrett; two daughters, Hillary and Brooke; two grandchildren; his father, William, of Harshaw, Wis.; two brothers, Reid and Joe Webster; and two sisters, Wendy and Jane Webster.
Michael L. Webster was born March 18, 1952, in Tomahawk, Wis., and was reared on a 640-acre potato farm. He didn't play high school ball until his junior year, but won a scholarship to Wisconsin. As a Steeler, he played in nine Pro Bowl games and 245 N.F.L. games, including 177 in a row. He earned $16,000 in his first season, $400,000 in his last.
When Webster was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, he chose Bradshaw to present him. And Webster's acceptance speech was emotional and prophetic.
"You only fail if you don't finish the game," he said. "If you finish, you won. You have to measure by what you started out with, by what you overcome. Who wants to get to the end of their life and find out they haven't lived at all? You're going to fail -- I did -- but that's O.K. because in your life no one is keeping score. Just finish the game."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Webster (Barton Silverman/The New York Times, 1981) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HEART DISEASE (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); LITIGATION (66%); REAL ESTATE (65%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (61%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FOOTBALL 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); KANSAS CITY CHIEFS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%)

WEBSTER, MIKE; LITSKY, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (88%); MISSOURI, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Sports 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



677 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Helping Haiti 

 BODY:
For the past two years, the international community has been in a terrible bind over Haiti. Results of the tainted May 2000 legislative elections were rejected by the opposition, and since then a combination of political gridlock and governmental abuse has sent the Haitians further into misery. The United States and other donors withheld contributions, hoping to spur President Jean-Bertrand Aristide into political and human rights reform and his opposition into negotiations with him. Neither he nor they have complied. 
 Now, in a shift born largely of exasperation, the Organization of American States, backed by Washington, has decided to unblock millions of dollars in aid on the condition that legislative elections be held next year. This is the right step, an effort to force the hand of both government and opposition while offering relief to the seven million people of a nation whose suffering knows no bounds. 
 The lives of the majority of the population defy the imagination of most Americans. Life expectancy is less than 50 years, and 55 percent of adults are illiterate. Access to potable water is rare in rural areas. Malnutrition is a leading cause of death among children under 4. Unemployment is near 70 percent. An estimated 80 percent of the population lives in abject poverty.
The elements of the worsening crisis in Haiti remain much the same as those eight years ago when American troops led an invasion to oust a military junta and restore Mr. Aristide, democratically elected, to power. There are fuel shortages, labor unrest, gangs of armed thugs roaming the street, crumbling infrastructure and political fractiousness. A recent World Bank study questioned whether the aid of the previous 15 years had made any difference in reducing poverty, blaming government mismanagement. The seeming intractability of Haiti's problems makes normalization of its relations with the United States and other nations, as well as with international development banks, no less pressing a concern. Outsiders are discovering that they may not be able to rescue Haiti. But carefully channeled international aid, conditioned on political reform, may help ease the Haitians' misery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POLITICS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); MALNUTRITION (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); COUPS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (67%); LITERACY RATES (67%); ARMED FORCES (65%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; FOREIGN AID; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (97%) HAITI

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



678 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Picks Up Pace While McCall Tries To Narrow Money Gap 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

 BODY:
With 41 days before the election and a comfortable lead in the polls, Gov. George E. Pataki is campaigning as if it were the final week, deploying supporters and negative ads to batter his Democratic opponent in a bid to effectively end the race before it really starts.
 While H. Carl McCall, the Democratic nominee, stays behind closed doors raising money and holding only one or two campaign events a day, Mr. Pataki has blitzed the trail, using his capacity as governor to sprinkle economic development money on the suburbs and upstate New York. 
 At the same time, in the drive to win him a third term, his campaign has gone on the attack, releasing its second negative ad of the race yesterday and rolling out the State Senate majority leader today for a campaign swing upstate to criticize Mr. McCall's record.
Mr. Pataki has often left it to his campaign aides to send scathing e-mail messages to the news media about Mr. McCall, but yesterday the governor himself mixed it up a bit during a news conference. He departed from usual practice and mentioned his opponent by name to denounce Mr. McCall's record as president of the New York City School Board in the early 1990's.
"I am very proud to compare my record to the record that Mr. McCall had when he was head of the New York City school system, when performance went down, dropouts went up, dollars in the classroom went down," Mr. Pataki said. 
In fact, the McCall camp says, some test scores went up, the dropout rate declined and spending per student increased. 
Analysts are divided over whether the governor is running smart or running scared, with some saying the approach reflects worry in his camp over Mr. McCall's potential to mount a serious challenge. 
Others ascribed it to the reputation of Mr. Pataki's strategists for cutthroat campaigning. After all, Mr. Pataki did broadcast a negative ad in 1998 about this time in mid-September, against Peter F. Vallone, the Democratic nominee, who never posed a serious threat. Mr. Pataki's strategists have said they are following the same plan, seeking to give voters the Pataki camp's impression of Mr. McCall before Mr. McCall can define himself.
Some Democratic consultants suggest that Mr. Pataki has underestimated Mr. McCall and is nervously watching the candidacy of Tom Golisano, the wealthy Independence Party candidate who has made the governor a target and threatens to spend tens of millions of dollars on television advertising. But they say Mr. Pataki's aggressive tactics are slowing whatever momentum Mr. McCall has sought to build.
"What you are seeing now is where the financial advantage of Pataki comes into play," said Josh Isay, a Democratic consultant who managed Andrew M. Cuomo's primary campaign against Mr. McCall. "McCall needs the money to do three things: to respond to Pataki's charges; to introduce himself to voters, which he really needs to do; and to paint a picture of the failures of the Pataki administration." 
"That," Mr. Isay added, "is an expensive proposition."
Mr. Pataki has about $20 million in campaign money, about 10 times as much as Mr. McCall.
Mr. McCall's aides said that he would broadcast new ads within the week and projected an air of calm, saying they had not seen evidence that Mr. Pataki's ads were being shown frequently.
"People are not seeing them," one adviser said.
Mr. McCall's advisers have said their internal polls show Mr. Pataki's lead narrowing to single digits; two public polls are expected in the next week.
Whether moved by polls or by the advice of his top strategists, Arthur Finkelstein and Kieran Mahoney, to take nothing for granted, Mr. Pataki has intensified his campaigning almost daily.
While Mr. McCall held just one event yesterday, to unveil a proposal at a Queens school to reduce class sizes and build more schools, Mr. Pataki held four, skipping from Albany to Westchester to New York City to Long Island.
Only one was billed as a campaign event, but Mr. Pataki's schedule typically includes a few official events that entail doling out grants for community centers, parks and business development that undeniably enhance his candidacy. Although he makes a number of such announcements in a given year, he has stepped up the pace in recent weeks.
On Monday, Mr. McCall criticized the grants as "election gimmicks," saying that they typically involved places in electoral battlegrounds like upstate and the suburbs. 
Mr. Pataki says he is just being governor. "We've been doing this for years," he said at a stop yesterday in Sleepy Hollow, where, to the applause of a group of elderly residents, he announced a $300,000 grant to renovate a park. This came after he appeared with local officials to announce a residential and commercial development on the riverfront site of a former General Motors auto plant.
At the same time, Mr. Pataki has sought to match Mr. McCall on Mr. McCall's signature issue, education.
Today, for instance, a day after Mr. McCall's appearance in Queens to call for more school construction, the governor is scheduled to be in the borough to dedicate a school. Also, after months of silence, he said this month that he disagreed with a court ruling that the state had no obligation to educate children beyond the eighth grade -- seeking to deflate Mr. McCall's "eight is not enough" campaign slogan.
Mr. Pataki has also generally tried to present a positive message on the stump while expanding the use of surrogates who bash Mr. McCall for him. Joseph L. Bruno, the leader of the Republican-controlled State Senate, is scheduled to make a swing upstate to discuss Mr. McCall's "record of failure" there, the campaign announced.
Mr. McCall, meanwhile, continues to interpret Mr. Pataki's aggressive campaigning as a sign of desperation. "I don't intend to run any negative ads" in response, he said.
Some Democrats are concerned about Mr. McCall's ability to strike back. "I think Pataki feels Team McCall does not have any money," said Richard Schrader, a Democratic strategist. "He can't get up on the air. Silence can be deadly."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, Gov. George E. Pataki at a rally yesterday in Brentwood at which he was endorsed by several Hispanic community leaders. H. Carl McCall, far left above, was in Queens to speak about education and to call for smaller class sizes and more school construction. (Edward Keating/The New York Times); (Ed Betz for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICAL ADVERTISING; FINANCES 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%) ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



679 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
At Little Wofford, Big Challenges

BYLINE:  By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
EARLY on, my father passed on a maxim well known to pool sharks and golf hustlers: never beat a man by more than you have to.
 I was reminded of this advice while looking at the college football menu for the weekend, which features the typical early-season nonconference mismatches: Texas at Tulane, South Florida at Oklahoma, Virginia Tech at Western Michigan, Rutgers at Tennessee. 
 One more week of the college football sharks looking for a breather and their marks seeking a payday. But one game in particular appeared to cry out for mercy: Wofford College at Maryland. 
How in the world was the smallest college in Division I-A and I-AA football -- with 1,100 students, Wofford's SAT average (1,236) is higher than its enrollment -- going to compete with Maryland, the defending Atlantic Coast Conference champion? Hitting the Web site for Wofford, a liberal arts college in Spartanburg, S.C., made me wince more.
Up came a couple of facts that were as curious as they were charming. First, after serving 28 years as Wofford's president, Dr. Joe Lesesne is now in his second season as the Terriers' tight ends coach. Second, wide receiver Isaac Goodpaster, last year's leading receiver with 25 catches, is legally blind with uncorrectable 20/200 vision.
Now, the $225,000 payday Wofford will receive for traveling to College Park goes a long way at a small college. And the Terriers are 3-0 and ranked No. 19 in this week's ESPN/USA Today Division I-AA poll. But is it worth the risk of a potentially humiliating defeat? 
"Need a game? Call 1-800-Wofford," Mark Cohen, the associate athletic director for media relations, said with a chuckle before explaining how the matchup came about and why the Terriers were equipped to take on the Terrapins (2-2).
Last winter Maryland was left with an open date when Troy State backed out of their game. As often happens, relationships interceded: Wofford's athletic director, Richard Johnson, and Maryland's coach, Ralph Friedgen, were at the Citadel at the same time in the 1970's. Friedgen was an assistant football coach, Johnson a basketball player.
Besides, Wofford had done this before. Last season it picked up Clemson and South Carolina at the 11th hour and played valiantly before losing to each by 38-14. Because there are only 550 men on campus, and Wofford has only 63 players on scholarship, compared with the 80 or so for Division I-A teams, a coach has to be crafty to compete.
Mike Ayers is. He is 84-72-1 in 15 years at Wofford. He runs a wingbone offense, a mix of the wishbone and the wing T.
Last week against Georgia Southern, a Southern Conference rival, Wofford ran 52 times for 269 yards in a 14-7 victory, one of the biggest in Wofford's 113 years of football. The Eagles have won or shared the last five conference titles and have won six Division I-AA national championships.
"They had a bunch of flags up there," Ayers said, referring to Georgia Southern's championship banners. "But as dumb as I am, I couldn't count all of them. But they had a mess of them."
Don't let Ayers fool you. He's a former Marine, a black belt in karate and an accomplished sketch artist who once worked on a garbage truck before deciding he wanted an education. In fact, the coach is so revered at Wofford that in 1998 an anonymous donor contributed $100,000 to establish the Mike Ayers Endowed Football Scholarship.
True to his nature, Ayers has put together an eclectic staff. Three of his five full-time assistants played at Wofford. Besides Dr. Lesesne, who decided he wanted to return to his first love after serving 28 years as Wofford's ninth president, Ayers's volunteer coaches are a 79-year-old veteran of the 101st Airborne and a former high school coach.
When Ayers calls his players difference makers, it has nothing to do with football. Wofford is demanding academically and was the only college in the nation to rank in the top 10 in all four categories in the 2000 N.C.A.A. Division I graduation rate report: overall student-athlete graduation rate as well as those for the football, men's basketball and women's basketball teams.
Last year's leading rusher, Ben Foster, doubled as the student body president and is entering medical school next fall. Last year's place-kicker, Darren Brown, was a Division I-AA all-American despite having been born without an arm below the left elbow. He is now in law school at the University of Texas.
"And Isaac Goodpaster," Ayers said. "He's lucky he doesn't run into the stadium with his eyesight. What we got here are not only student-athletes in the truest sense of the word, but guys who are used to overcoming challenges."
Goodpaster has Stargardt's disease, which is a macular degeneration of the cones in the middle of his eye. He does not drive. He labors to watch television. He relies on textbooks with enlarged print and audiotapes for course work. His condition will not get any worse, but his vision fluctuates from day to day. 
"In the middle of my eye everything is blurry; my peripheral vision is better but not good either," said Goodpaster, a senior from Mount Sterling, Ky. "I don't look straight into anything. I've had it all my life and never known anything else, so I've adapted and adjusted to things everybody else takes for granted. I may walk off a curb or bump into a corner of a wall, but that's about it."
How he catches a football has everything to do with preparation and running precise routes. Even though it is taxing, Goodpaster watches hours of film so he knows where a defender will be coming from when his number is called.
"I can't see the ball coming out of the quarterback's hand, but as it gets closer I see this big brown blur," he said. "It's about being in the right place at the right time and, fortunately, I have pretty good hands."
Against Georgia Southern, he caught a 20-yard pass on third-and-13 to keep the Terriers' game-winning drive alive. Last year, against Clemson, he made an acrobatic leap in the back of the end zone for a touchdown that briefly put Wofford up, 14-7.
At 6 feet 1 inch and 180 pounds, Goodpaster understands that games against teams like South Carolina, Clemson and Maryland are as close to the big time as he is going to get.
"I still do dream about playing in the N.F.L.," said Goodpaster, a 3.0 student in business economics. "But I also know not many teams are looking for a skinny, white receiver from a school that doesn't throw a lot. So this game means a lot. If we execute, we have a chance to beat them. If I didn't think that way, I wouldn't be playing football."
It appears that Goodpaster sees pretty well after all.
Wofford may not shock the world and upset Maryland, but the folks down in South Carolina are convincing when they say they have nothing to lose. Even if the Terrapins beat the Terriers by 10 touchdowns, they will not have beaten them at all. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Joe Lesesne, above, who was Wofford College's president for 28 years, is now the tight ends coach. Isaac Goodpaster, who caught 25 passes last year, is legally blind. (John Byrum); (Mark Murray); Home for Wofford's football team is 13,000-seat Gibbs Stadium in Spartanburg, S.C. (John Powell)(pg. D1); Jeff Zolman being tackled in Wofford's 7-6 victory over South Carolina State on Sept. 14. The Terriers are 3-0, but Division I-A Maryland is next. (Larry Hardy); Wofford Coach Mike Ayers runs the wingbone, a cross of the wishbone and the wing T. (Yalonda M. James)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (77%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); BASKETBALL (70%); BLINDNESS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC COAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (88%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



680 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: NUMBER OF PEOPLE LIVING IN POVERTY INCREASES IN U.S. 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
The proportion of Americans living in poverty rose significantly last year, increasing for the first time in eight years, the Census Bureau reported today. At the same time, the bureau said that the income of middle-class households fell for the first time since the last recession ended, in 1991.
 The Census Bureau's annual report on income and poverty provided stark evidence that the weakening economy had begun to affect large segments of the population, regardless of race, region or class. Daniel H. Weinberg, chief of income and poverty statistics at the Census Bureau, said the recession that began in March 2001 had reduced the earnings of millions of Americans. 
 The report also suggested that the gap between rich and poor continued to grow. 
All regions except the Northeast experienced a decline in household income, the bureau reported. For blacks, it was the first significant decline in two decades; non-Hispanic whites saw a slight decline. Even the incomes of Asians and Pacific Islanders, a group that achieved high levels of prosperity in the 1990's, went down significantly last year. 
"The decline was widespread," Mr. Weinberg said.
The Census Bureau said the number of poor Americans rose last year to 32.9 million, an increase of 1.3 million, while the proportion living in poverty rose to 11.7 percent, from 11.3 percent in 2000. 
Median household income fell to $42,228 in 2001, a decline of $934 or 2.2 percent from the prior year. The number of households with income above the median is the same as the number below it.
A family of four was classified as poor if it had cash income less than $18,104 last year. The official poverty levels, updated each year to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index, were $14,128 for a family of three, $11,569 for a married couple and $9,039 for an individual.
The bureau's report is likely to provide fodder for the Congressional campaigns. The White House said the increase in poverty resulted, in part, from an economic slowdown that began under President Bill Clinton. But Democrats said the data showed the failure of President Bush's economic policies and his tendency to neglect the economy.
Mr. Bush said today that he remained optimistic. "When you combine the productivity of the American people with low interest rates and low inflation, those are the ingredients for growth," Mr. Bush said. 
But Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland, said the administration should "start paying attention to the economic situation." Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader, expressed amazement that Mr. Bush, after being in office for 20 months, was still blaming his predecessor.
Rudolph G. Penner, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office, said: "The increase in poverty is most certainly a result of the recession. The slow recovery, the slow rate of growth, has been very disappointing. Whether that has a political impact this fall depends on whether the election hinges on national conditions or focuses on local issues."
Although the poverty rate, the proportion of the population living in poverty, rose four-tenths of a percentage point last year, it was still lower than in most of the last two decades. The poverty rate exceeded 12 percent every year from 1980 to 1998. As the economy grew from 1993 to 2000, the rate plunged, to 11.3 percent from 15.1 percent, and the poverty rolls were reduced by 7.7 million people, to 31.6 million.
The latest recession showed an unusual pattern, seeming to raise poverty rates among whites more than among minority groups, Mr. Weinberg said.
Increases in poverty last year were concentrated in the suburbs, in the South and among non-Hispanic whites, the Census Bureau said. Indeed, non-Hispanic whites were the only racial group for whom the poverty rate showed a significant increase, to 7.8 percent in 2001, from 7.4 percent in 2000.
Poverty rates for minority groups were once much higher. But last year, the bureau said, they remained "at historic lows" for blacks (22.7 percent), Hispanics (21.4 percent) and Asian Americans (10.2 percent).
With its usual caution, the Census Bureau said the data did not conclusively show a year-to-year increase in income inequality. But the numbers showed a clear trend in that direction over the last 15 years. 
The most affluent fifth of the population received half of all household income last year, up from 45 percent in 1985. The poorest fifth received 3.5 percent of total household income, down from 4 percent in 1985. Average income for the top 5 percent of households rose by $1,000 last year, to $260,464, but the average declined or stayed about the same for most other income brackets.
Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research institute, said, "The census data show that income inequality either set a record in 2001 or tied for the highest level on record."
Median earnings increased 3.5 percent for women last year, but did not change for men, so women gained relative to men. 
"The real median earnings of women age 15 and older who worked full time year-round increased for the fifth consecutive year, rising to $29,215 -- a 3.5 percent increase between 2000 and 2001," Mr. Weinberg said. The comparable figure for men was unchanged at $38,275. So the female-to-male earnings ratio reached a high of 0.76. The previous high was 0.74, first recorded in 1996.
Democrats said the data supported their contention that Congress should increase spending on social welfare programs, resisted by many Republicans. But Wade F. Horn, the administration's welfare director, said the number of poor children was much lower than in 1996, when Congress overhauled the welfare law to impose strict work requirements.
Of the 32.9 million poor people in the United States last year, 11.7 million were under 18, and 3.4 million were 65 or older. Poverty rates for children, 16.3 percent, and the elderly, 10.1 percent, were virtually unchanged from 2000. But the poverty rate for people 18 to 64 rose a half percentage point, to 10.1 percent.
Median household income for blacks fell last year by $1,025, or 3.4 percent, to $29,470. Median income of Hispanics, at $33,565, was virtually unchanged. But household income fell by 1.3 percent for non-Hispanic whites, to $46,305, and by 6.4 percent for Asian Americans, to $53,635.
The Census Bureau report also included these findings:
*There were 6.8 million poor families last year, up from 6.4 million in 2000. The poverty rate for families rose to 9.2 percent, from a 26-year low of 8.7 percent in 2000.
*The rate in the South rose to 13.5 percent, from 12.8 percent in 2000. The South is home to more than 40 percent of all the nation's poor, and it accounted for more than half of the national increase in the number of poor last year.
*The poverty rate for the suburbs rose to 8.2 percent last year, from 7.8 percent in 2000. The number of poor people in suburban areas rose by 700,000, to 12 million. There was virtually no change in the rates in central cities (16.5 percent) and outside metropolitan areas (14.2 percent). 
The bureau said the number of "severely poor" rose to 13.4 million last year, from 12.6 million in 2000. People are considered to be severely poor if their family incomes are less than half of the official poverty level.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STATUS REPORT -- Recession Takes Its Toll"A new report by the Census Bureau found that in 2001 household income declined and the rate of poverty rose, reversing trends that held for most of the 1990s. Graph tracks median household income, adjusted for inflation in 2001 dollars and highlighting recession, from 1960 to 2000 Graph tracks poverty rate from 1960 to 2000. United States: 2000 -- $43,162 By race and ethnicityWhites: $45,142Non-Hispanic whites: 46,896Blacks: 30,495Asians and Pacific Islanders: 57,313Hispanics (of any race): 34,094 By regionNortheast: $44,971Midwest: 45,496South: 39,460West: 46,169 United States: 2001 -- $42,228 By race and ethnicityWhites: $44,517Non-Hispanic whites: 46,305Blacks: 29,470Asians and Pacific Islanders: 53,635Hispanics (of any race): 33,565 By regionNortheast: $45,716Midwest: 43,834South: 38,904West: 45,087 United States: Percent change -- -2.2 By race and ethnicityWhites: -1.4Non-Hispanic whites: -1.3Blacks: -3.4Asians and Pacific Islanders: -6.4Hispanics (of any race): -1.6 By regionNortheast: 1.7*Midwest: -3.7South: -1.4West: -2.3 United States: 2000 -- 11.3% By race and ethnicityWhites: 9.5Non-Hispanic whites: 7.4Blacks: 22.5Asians and Pacific Islanders: 9.9Hispanics (of any race): 21.5 By regionNortheast: 10.3Midwest: 9.3South: 12.8West: 11.8 United States: 2001 -- 11.7% By race and ethnicityWhites: 9.9Non-Hispanic whites: 7.8Blacks: 22.7Asians and Pacific Islanders: 10.2Hispanics (of any race): 21.4 By regionNortheast: 10.7Midwest: 9.4South: 13.5West: 12.1 United States: Change in percentage points -- 0.4 By race and ethnicityWhites: 0.4Non-Hispanic whites: 0.4Blacks: 0.1*Asians and Pacific Islanders: 0.3*Hispanics (of any race): -0.1* By regionNortheast: 0.4*Midwest: 0.0*South: 0.7West: 0.2* *Not statistically significant. (Source: Census Bureau Current Population Survey)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); CENSUS (93%); POVERTY RATES (92%); POOR POPULATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); MARRIAGE (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; MINORITIES (US); INCOME; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (94%) CENSUS BUREAU 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%); BILL CLINTON (52%); JOHN P SARBANES (50%) PEAR, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



681 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: After Impasse, F.D.A. May Fill Top Job 

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
President Bush intends to nominate Dr. Mark B. McClellan, a member of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, to fill the long-vacant job of commissioner of food and drugs, administration officials said today.
 A physician and an economist who advises the president on health policy, Dr. McClellan, 39, is also the brother of the White House deputy press secretary, Scott McClellan. The nomination is expected as early as Wednesday. 
 Congressional aides said today that the Senate would probably confirm Dr. McClellan. That would end a long-running stalemate between the White House and Democrats on Capitol Hill over who should run the Food and Drug Administration, a vast agency that has had no commissioner since Mr. Bush took office 20 months ago.
Dr. McClellan, a native of Texas whose mother is a former mayor of Austin, is regarded as fairly apolitical -- he worked for the Treasury Department under President Bill Clinton in the late 1990's -- and is respected by those who know him as a good listener and someone who can compromise. 
"Mark is a genuine, thoughtful, decent, smart public official," said Ron Pollack, the executive director of Families USA, a group that has often been at odds with the Bush administration and Dr. McClellan. "Despite our disagreements, he has my utmost respect."
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Senate health committee, said Dr. McClellan "has impressive credentials both as a physician and as an economist."
But Dr. McClellan, who was an associate professor of both medicine and economics at Stanford University before joining the Bush administration last year, has little experience in running a large organization. His expertise is largely in health care economics, not regulatory matters of the sort handled by the food and drug agency.
"This is a large agency with a lot of different facets and aspects to it," said a Congressional aide. "There is a question about how much he knows about many of these crucial issues."
With a $1.6 billion budget, the F.D.A. has a reach that covers more than 20 percent of every consumer dollar spent in the United States. The agency, which monitors food safety and approves new drugs and vaccines, has taken on a growing role in national security since the terrorist attacks of last year.
Mr. Bush has been trying to fill the job for more than a year. In July 2001 he put forth the name of a biotechnology industry lawyer, Michael Astrue, but Senate Democrats complained Mr. Astrue was too close to industry.
This February, the administration floated the name of Dr. Alastair J. J. Wood, a drug safety expert at Vanderbilt University, but pharmaceutical executives complained that he would be too aggressive a regulator.
At that point the administration named a deputy commissioner, Dr. Lester Crawford, a veterinarian who is a food safety expert, to run the agency until a permanent chief could be found. Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, favored Dr. Crawford for the top job, but the White House was said to want a physician.
The impasse brought complaints from lawmakers, public interest groups and industry executives, who argued that the agency needed a leader. Last winter Scott McClellan, the deputy press secretary, said the White House was "well along in what has been an exhaustive search" and added, "The focus is on finding the best person."
But the selection process dragged on, in part because Dr. McClellan, who was already under consideration by this time, was not sure he wanted the job, said a person familiar with the search. 
Dr. McClellan, this person said, wanted to devote his attention to helping the White House formulate policy on such matters as prescription drug benefits for the elderly and reforming the nation's medical malpractice laws. But more recently, he decided he had accomplished his goals and was ready to move on. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); NEW ISSUES (85%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (62%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); DRUG SAFETY (57%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); TERRORISM (50%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%) FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (59%); TED KENNEDY (58%) MCCLENNAN, MARK B (DR); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



682 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Cornucopia of New Statistics Shows City's Best and Worst 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg issued his report card for New York City's government yesterday, portraying it as having endured a difficult fiscal year, and at times even thriving. As a document, the report card, known as the Mayor's Management Report, said as much about Mr. Bloomberg, the manager, as it did about the city he steers.
 For years, his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, presented reporters with a semiannual tome of positive statistics about the city, chock-a-block with acronyms and asterisks and presented with great fanfare as proof that the city was reaching new heights under Mr. Giuliani's tutelage. 
 Yesterday's presentation, for the fiscal year ending June 30, was quite different. The book featured information on topics that included the cleanliness of streets, test scores at public high schools, and the number of people who receive welfare, statistics that this mayor, who made his fortune by making financial data accessible to anyone with one of his trademarked terminals, clearly enjoyed presenting in a new format. 
The feature the mayor seemed most excited about was a Web site that allows New Yorkers to view statistics about their neighborhoods, and to compare them with other areas of the city, at www.nyc.gov/mmr.
The report featured lots of data neatly packaged, minimal narrative and good art. (The cover image came from a brooding painting of the Brooklyn Bridge by the artist Samuel Halpert.) Indeed, Mr. Bloomberg seemed perplexed when reporters began to pepper him with questions about the substance of the report -- like why arrests for quality-of-life crimes were down, police overtime was up and some school test scores were improving. He preferred to dwell instead on the report's slick packaging and cool user-friendly features.
"There was never the sense of customer focus and customer service that I'm trying to instill, of saying, 'O.K., who's going to read this?' and making it as easy for them to read as possible," the mayor said as he unveiled the new report.
Yesterday's snapshot "shows that during one of the most difficult 12-month periods of our city's history, the performance of city agencies, for the most part, either remained stable or improved over the level of the previous fiscal year," Mr. Bloomberg said. "That is, I think, a remarkable achievement for both the Giuliani administration and the Bloomberg administration."
Indeed, despite the terrorist attack and the subsequent concentration of the city's leaders and police force on possible future threats last year, the city managed to hold its own in many key areas, and even improve some services. For instance, police response times to 911 calls fell sharply, to 7.2 minutes this year from 10.1 minutes the prior year, while the number of New Yorkers on public assistance fell 14 percent from the prior year.
However, there was deterioration in other areas. The percentage of clean streets dropped slightly, and the number of syphilis cases in the city nearly doubled, reflecting a national trend.
Police overtime escalated sharply, to $610 million last year from $338 million the year before. Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said that much of the overtime was due to the terrorist attack and the ensuing heightened security.
The report at times painted a remarkable portrait of a city sustaining itself at a time when little was expected of local government. For instance, even as the city's medical examiner's office struggled with the task of identifying victims from the World Trade Center, 93 percent of the city's death certificates were processed within four hours of autopsy. Further, more DNA tests in sexual-assault cases were completed rapidly, largely as a result of new technology and staff members dedicated to that technique. And while many New Yorkers were focused on global issues of personal safety, the city managed to keep parks a wee bit cleaner and to hire more lifeguards last year.
For decades, the Mayor's Management Report has been a case of hunt and peck, with positive statistics presented gleefully and the bad news hidden. Jargon was plentiful. This was particularly true under the Giuliani administration, good-government groups groused. 
While the Bloomberg administration's report is far from comprehensive, those groups say, it is a notable improvement. 
"No mayor enjoys making it easy to find the problems in their administration," said Gene Russianoff, a staff lawyer at the New York Public Interest Research Group. "But this time, when the mayor was asked about the actual details, he turned it over to his commissioners. It wasn't as important for him to defend the information as to just get it out there."
The online component of the report is meant to be user-friendly. After going to the Web site and clicking on "My Neighborhood Statistics," people will be invited to enter their addresses to see how their community boards do in terms of clean streets and noise complaints, how many public assistance recipients their communities have and how many of its public school teachers are certified.
With a little more clicking, they can get color-coded maps to see how their neighborhoods compare in those categories with other community boards around the city. 
While the Bloomberg administration did highlight its favorite statistics in the report in the short narratives of the departments, it did not hide unpleasant realities that have been unavailable in recent years. In a new statistic, it reported that only 58 percent of the restrooms at city parks were in service last year. 
The report graded the government on many of its bread-and-butter functions. 
Reported crime dropped in all major categories (the Police Department does not count the approximately 2,800 people killed in the World Trade Center attacks with other murder victims) and the number of civilian complaints filed against police officers dropped. The number of police officers fell as well, to 36,790, down from 40,285 in 2000.
The city won high marks for fixing broken street lights. The report said that the city responded to reports of broken traffic lights within 48 hours 99.3 percent of the time and to reports of faulty street lights within 10 days 96.9 percent of the time. 
The number of searches of inmates in the city's jails rose to 375,751 last year, up from 312,671 the year before, and the number of inmates slashed or stabbed dropped to 29, from 54 the prior year.
The mayor said that he would continue to update the data, and find better ways of displaying it, whether it was good news or bad news.
"There will be things that work well, there will be things that work poorly," he said. "Sometimes you will get lucky and it will come out good in spite of your actions, sometimes, no matter how hard you try, there will be circumstances that just prevent you from being successful. What we're talking about here is getting the numbers out."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Mayor's Management Report is available at www.nyc.gov/mmr. Residents can see information about their neighborhoods and make comparisons with other areas. (pg. B1); Fire Commissioner Nicholas Scoppetta took notes as other commissioners listened during the presentation of the Mayor's Management Report yesterday. They are, from left, Christopher O. Ward of the Department of Environmental Protection, Thomas R. Frieden of the Public Health Department, Raymond W. Kelly of the Police Department, and John Doherty of the Sanitation Department. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4) Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: City Services: A Report Card"Selected highlights from the Mayor's Management Report, which details performance of New York City's agencies. Health, Education and Human Services New adult AIDS cases reportedFISCAL YEAR 2001: 5,446FISCAL YEAR 2002: 6,379 New pediatric AIDS cases reportedFISCAL YEAR 2001: 25FISCAL YEAR 2002: 44 Syphillis cases (reported and confirmed)FISCAL YEAR 2001: 188FISCAL YEAR 2002: 357 Medicaid managed care enrollmentFISCAL YEAR 2001: 417,715FISCAL YEAR 2002: 666,744 Total pupil enrollment, pre-kindergartenFISCAL YEAR 2001: 41,069FISCAL YEAR 2002: 45,028 Elementary school pupil attendanceFISCAL YEAR 2001: 91.5%FISCAL YEAR 2002: 92.4% Average school lunches served dailyFISCAL YEAR 2001: 648,510FISCAL YEAR 2002: 645,631 FreeFISCAL YEAR 2001: 532,377FISCAL YEAR 2002: 524,452 Reduced PriceFISCAL YEAR 2001: 41,496FISCAL YEAR 2002: 43,891 Full PriceFISCAL YEAR 2001: 74,637FISCAL YEAR 2002: 77,288 People receiving public assistanceFISCAL YEAR 2001: 497,100FISCAL YEAR 2002: 425,400 People receiving food stampsFISCAL YEAR 2001: 836,200FISCAL YEAR 2002: 819,500 Value of food stamps issued, in millionsFISCAL YEAR 2001: $845.1FISCAL YEAR 2002: $864.7 Children in foster careFISCAL YEAR 2001: 30,858FISCAL YEAR 2002: 28,215 Homeless services, people lodged per nightFISCAL YEAR 2001: 7,187FISCAL YEAR 2002: 7,662 Infrastructure, Administration and Community Services Water main breaksFISCAL YEAR 2001: 523FISCAL YEAR 2002: 494 Sewer backup complaints receivedFISCAL YEAR 2001: 23,084FISCAL YEAR 2002: 19,092 Average sewer backup response time, in hoursFISCAL YEAR 2001: 4.2FISCAL YEAR 2002: 3.3 Total environmental compliance violations issuedFISCAL YEAR 2001: 6,119FISCAL YEAR 2002: 7,575 Noise complaints receivedFISCAL YEAR 2001: 11,139FISCAL YEAR 2002: 10,931 New traffic signals installedFISCAL YEAR 2001: 224FISCAL YEAR 2002: 191 New traffic signs installedFISCAL YEAR 2001: 126,091FISCAL YEAR 2002: 144,123 Parking meters, percent operableFISCAL YEAR 2001: 90.7%FISCAL YEAR 2002: 90.0% Pothole repairsFISCAL YEAR 2001: 121,331FISCAL YEAR 2002: 101,280 Pothole complaintsFISCAL YEAR 2001: 31,913FISCAL YEAR 2002: 21,072 Average number of vehicles entering Manhattan's central business district per dayFISCAL YEAR 2001: 835,300FISCAL YEAR 2002: 700,000 Tons of trash collected, in millionsFISCAL YEAR 2001: 2.975FISCAL YEAR 2002: 2.999 Trash collections made at nightFISCAL YEAR 2001: 14.5%FISCAL YEAR 2002: 11.0% City agency office paper recycled, tons per dayFISCAL YEAR 2001: 10FISCAL YEAR 2002: 3 Trees prunedFISCAL YEAR 2001: 50,520FISCAL YEAR 2002: 52,275 Public Safety and Legal Affairs Truants returned to schoolFISCAL YEAR 2001: 118,493FISCAL YEAR 2002: 89,116 Prostitution arrestsFISCAL YEAR 2001: 3,790FISCAL YEAR 2002: 3,258 Graffiti arrestsFISCAL YEAR 2001: 1,480FISCAL YEAR 2002: 917 Total major felony crimesFISCAL YEAR 2001: 172,731FISCAL YEAR 2002: 156,559 Murder and non-negligent manslaughter casesFISCAL YEAR 2001: 626FISCAL YEAR 2002: 607 Total arrestsFISCAL YEAR 2001: 384,158FISCAL YEAR 2002: 316,224 Average daily inmate populationFISCAL YEAR 2001: 14,490FISCAL YEAR 2002: 13,934 Average cost per inmate per yearFISCAL YEAR 2001: $56,073FISCAL YEAR 2002: $62,595 Number of weapons recovered from inmatesFISCAL YEAR 2001: 3,291FISCAL YEAR 2002: 2,145 Stabbings and slashings of inmates by other inmatesFISCAL YEAR 2001: 54FISCAL YEAR 2002: 29 Searches in correctional facilitiesFISCAL YEAR 2001: 312,671FISCAL YEAR 2002: 375,751 Non-Mayoral Agencies Total library attendance, in millionsFISCAL YEAR 2001: 39.5FISCAL YEAR 2002: 39.9(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); OVERTIME (86%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (86%); POLICE FORCES (79%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); MISCONDUCT (74%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (74%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (73%); ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (73%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); HISTORY (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (71%); HIJACKING (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); TERRORISM (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; STREETS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; WELFARE (US); POLICE; VENEREAL DISEASES; SYPHILIS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; OVERTIME; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND SIGNS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; SEARCH AND SEIZURE; ASSAULTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: ;CIVILIAN COMPLAINT REVIEW BOARD (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); KELLY, RAYMOND W (COMR); STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; COOPER, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



683 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: FED OPTS TO LEAVE RATES UNCHANGED 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve voted today to leave official interest rates unchanged, but 2 of its 12 voting members took the rare step of opposing the decision and instead backed an immediate rate cut.
 The split decision did little to calm the tumult on Wall Street, where the Dow Jones industrial average ended the day at its lowest level in four years. But it was a clear indication that Fed officials, like economists generally, are divided over how to deal with the fears of further weakness in the economy and the uncertainty created by the prospect of war with Iraq. Page C1. 
 It was the first time since 1998 that two members of the Fed's policy-setting Open Market Committee simultaneously broke ranks with Alan Greenspan, the chairman. While there is no indication that Mr. Greenspan's leadership or stature are at risk -- he left for Britain after the meeting to receive an honorary knighthood from Queen Elizabeth II on Thursday -- the dissents highlighted the unease in Washington and the markets about whether the economy is at risk of stalling again.
The vote left investors and analysts uncertain about the Fed's next step. It disappointed some investors, who had hoped the Fed would address the swoon in stock prices, declining consumer confidence and reluctance on the part of businesses to expand and invest.
But the willingness of two Fed members to call for lower rates today suggested to analysts that a rate cut would be on the agenda at the next Fed meeting, on Nov. 6, the day after Congressional elections, when any move the central bank might make would have fewer political implications. If economic indicators point to further weakness, many predicted, the Fed is likely to lower rates at that meeting.
Stock prices fell after the Fed's announcement, and then bounced up and down before closing mostly lower. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 189.02 points to end the day at 7,683.13, its lowest level since Oct. 1, 1998. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.76 points, to 1,182.17. 
The split within the Fed came as Democrats stepped up their efforts to turn attention from the possibility of war to the economy's problems and what they said was a failure of domestic leadership on the part of President Bush and his party.
"Statistic after statistic makes me think there is a real possibility for a double-dip recession," Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic majority leader, told reporters. Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the Democratic minority leader in the House, said in a floor speech that the nation was suffering from a tumbling stock market, rising unemployment, a wave of corporate scandals and a plunge in consumer confidence.
But after a cabinet meeting at the White House, Mr. Bush said he was optimistic, adding, "When you combine the productivity of the American people with low interest rates and low inflation, those are the ingredients for growth."
The 10-to-2 vote by the Fed left its main interest rate, the federal funds target rate on overnight loans among banks, at 1.75 percent, its lowest level in more than 40 years. Many types of borrowing, including some home equity lines of credit and small-business loans, generally move in lock step with the Fed's rate. Rates on most mortgages and corporate borrowing are based on interest rates set in the bond market, where long-term rates are also at extremely low levels.
In a statement, the Fed said the economic risks "are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness," phrasing that the central bank uses to signal that it is open to a rate reduction if the outlook does not improve.
The Fed said the economy was growing "at a moderate pace," and it repeated that it saw the current level of rates as low enough to help spur activity in the long run.
But it suggested that its forecast for a gradual recovery was clouded by the economic risks associated with any war with Iraq, and that it was unclear when the economy might pick up.
"Over time, the current accommodative stance of monetary policy, coupled with still-robust underlying growth in productivity, should be sufficient to foster an improving business climate," the statement said. "However, considerable uncertainty persists about the extent and timing of the expected pickup in production and employment owing in part to the emergence of heightened geopolitical risks."
The two dissenters on today's vote were Edward M. Gramlich, a Fed governor, and Robert D. McTeer Jr., president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Mr. McTeer is known for his belief that the economy can grow at a robust pace without generating inflation. Today's dissent was his fourth in his 12 years.
Mr. Gramlich, by contrast, had not previously dissented since joining the Fed in 1997. Dissents by Fed governors, who serve alongside Mr. Greenspan in Washington, are considerably rarer than those by the regional bank presidents, who often stake out different positions from those held by Mr. Greenspan. 
The last dissent by a governor was in 1995. Since 1992 and 1993, when the Fed was routinely split, there have been only three cases, including today, when two or more members dissented from the majority vote.
The Fed cut the federal funds rate 4.75 percentage points last year in 11 separate moves, but it has been holding steady this year. Its policy has helped keep consumer spending robust by putting downward pressure on mortgage rates and encouraging automakers to offer low or no-interest financing on cars. But it is not clear that the low level of official rates is having much effect on the economy's biggest problems: overcapacity among manufacturers and reluctance by businesses of all kinds to invest in capital equipment. Nor has it done anything to reverse the long slide in stock prices.
Investors and analysts will now be watching closely for any signs that the Fed is inclined to cut rates at its meeting on Nov. 6 or, should the stock market continue to fall and unemployment tick up, before that.
"We're on a slippery slope to a Fed ease," said John Silvia, chief economist at Wachovia Securities. "I suspect that with the next Fed meeting right after the election, they're going to move unless they get better numbers from industrial production, orders and employment."
But other economists said the economy was healthy enough that there was no clear-cut case for further rate cuts.
"The economy's growing at like 3 percent," said Stephen G. Cecchetti, a former Fed official who is now an economics professor at Ohio State University in Columbus. "That may be a little disappointing relative to what we were seeing in the last half of the '90's, but it's nothing to sneer at."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan faced a rare challenge yesterday when 2 of 12 members voted to cut rates. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) Chart: "Divided Over Interest Rates"The Fed left its target rate unchanged yesterday at 1.75 percent, but, in a rare dissent, two policy makers voted to cut the rate because of concerns over economic weakness. Graph tracks Fed funds target rate from 1999-2002. "BALANCE OF RISKS" (Inflation Higher rates)NeutralWeakness (Lower rates) (Source: Federal Reserve)(pg. C18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); PRODUCTIVITY (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BONDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICS (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (65%); TERRORISM (59%); SCANDALS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRODUCTIVITY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ELIZABETH II (52%); TOM DASCHLE (50%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



684 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Terror Alert Level Lowered
The government lowered its terror alert level, citing the arrest of suspected Al Qaeda members in Buffalo and elsewhere. PAGE A13

U.S.Ties Suspect to Hijacker
Prosecutors said a business card found at a Sept. 11 crash site contained a phone number that Zacarias Moussaoui had called. PAGE A14

Setback for Death Penalty
A federal judge in Vermont has ruled that the federal death penalty law denies defendants the right to due process. PAGE A15

Food and Drug Nominee
President Bush will nominate Dr. Mark B. McClellan, an economic adviser, as commissioner of food and drugs, aides said. PAGE A18

Gore Breaks Away
With his speech on Iraq, Al Gore has broken with other Democratic presidential hopefuls on foreign policy. NEWS ANALYSIS, PAGE A13

U.S. Troops to Ivory Coast
Washington dispatched 200 troops to Ivory Coast, where 100 American schoolchildren remained trapped in a rebel-held city. PAGE A8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); HIJACKING (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); DUE PROCESS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); JUDGES (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); CHILDREN (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: AL GORE (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



685 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Britain Releases Report On Iraq's Arms Power
Britain asserted in a report that the Iraqi government of President Saddam Hussein could launch chemical or biological warheads within 45 minutes of an order to use them and acquire a nuclear weapon in two to five years. The report was released a few hours before Prime Minister Tony Blair outlined his case for war if necessary to make Iraq disarm. An Iraqi government minister denied all the charges. A1

A Shift for North Korea
In the most significant reversal of economic policy since it was founded, North Korea has announced the establishment of an autonomous capitalist investment zone near the Chinese border. A3

NATO Supports U.S. Proposal
NATO defense ministers gave broad support to American proposals for a rapid-reaction force, after Washington's warnings that a NATO incapable of rapid, modern, mobile warfare will become increasingly irrelevant to the United States. A6

29 Killed at Temple in India
Assailants opened fire with automatic weapons in a Hindu temple in Gujarat, killing at least 29 people and wounding 74, in a state still reeling from communal violence earlier this year. Elite commandos from the National Security Guard killed two assailants at dawn after a battle raged for hours in the temple complex. The attackers' motives were unknown. A8

U.N. Demands Israel End Siege
The United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution demanding that Israel lift the five-day siege of Yasir Arafat's compound in Ramallah, but Israel took no action, saying it had "difficulty in accepting" elements in the measure. A6

Palestinian Anger at Raid
Thousands of Palestinians marched the streets in Gaza City in angry mourning for nine people killed before dawn in an Israeli infantry raid. A6

U.S. Troops to Ivory Coast
The United States deployed about 200 troops to the Ivory Coast, where 100 American schoolchildren are trapped in a rebel-held city. A8

NATIONAL A15-19

Census Bureau Reports Steep Increase in Poverty
The Census Bureau reported that the proportion of Americans living in poverty rose significantly last year, increasing for the first time in eight years, while the income of middle-class households fell for the first time since 1991. A1

Homeland Bill Faces Veto
Democrats gathered enough votes to keep President Bush from firing workers in a new Homeland Security Department, setting up a battle with an administration determined to transform federal work rules. A1

Gunman Evaded Deportation
Officials disclosed that an Egyptian immigrant who went on a July 4 shooting spree at Los Angeles International Airport had told immigration officials nearly a decade earlier that he had been accused of links to a terrorist organization. A1

Death Penalty Ruled Unlawful
A federal judge in Vermont has ruled that the federal death penalty law is unconstitutional, saying evidence admitted during sentencing denies defendants' rights to due process. A15

Armey Comments in Question
Two top House Democrats criticized the majority leader, Dick Armey, for what they called disparaging comments about Jews in America. A18

Fire Rages Near Los Angeles
A fire in the San Gabriel Mountains has consumed 9,000 acres, damaged at least 44 structures and forced the evacuation of 1,500 people. A17

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Slow Sales of Abortion Pill
Two years after the abortion pill was introduced in this country, abortion providers say only a small percentage of women seeking abortions are using it and few doctors outside of abortion clinics are offering it. A1

West Nile Vaccine in the Works
Federal scientists told Congress that a vaccine to protect the elderly from the West Nile virus could be available in three years and a way to test the blood supply against the infection may be available next summer. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Yoko Ono Testifies In Suit Against Assistant
Yoko Ono sat on the witness stand in a Manhattan courtroom as she testified in a civil suit against her former assistant, Frederic Seaman, who worked for the Lennons from 1979 to 1982. She says Mr. Seaman stole videotapes, photographs and other mementos while working for her, a charge that Mr. Seaman denies. B6

SPORTS D1-7

EDUCATION B8

Tests to Lead to Bonuses
New York City school superintendents will receive bonuses of up to $40,000 if test scores in their districts significantly improve this year, Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein said. A1

Columbia President Apologizes
The president of Columbia University, Lee C. Bollinger, apologized to his counterpart at Fordham University, the Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, for a public gibe by the Columbia marching band about the priest sexual abuse scandal. B3

ARTS E1-8

Collection May Move Downtown
The financially beleaguered Barnes Foundation filed court papers asking for permission to move its remarkable Impressionist-laden art collection from its longtime suburban home to a new $150 million building in Philadelphia. A16

DINING F1-10

OBITUARIES C18-19

Mike Webster
A football center whose career was followed by more than a decade of physical and psychological turmoil apparently brought on by repeated blows to the head on the field, he was 50. C19

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

No Rate Cut, But Two Dissent
The Federal Reserve voted not to change interest rates, but two of its 12 voting members dissented and backed a rate cut, a sign that Fed officials are divided over how to deal with the weakness in the economy. A1

Executives to Plead Guilty
Three executives of Homestore.com have agreed to plead guilty to securities fraud and to cooperate with an investigation into their company and a related investigation into its business partner, AOL Time Warner. C1

Talk of TV News Merger
AOL Time Warner and Walt Disney have revived talks about combining CNN and ABC News in an effort to cut costs. C1

Stocks Hit Four-Year Low
The Dow dropped 189.02 points to 7,683.13, its lowest close since October 1998. C1

Bonuses at Tyco Questioned
Tyco claimed a profit on an investment 15 months ago even as the company lost money on it, details of the transaction show. Tyco then paid almost $24 million in bonuses to top managers. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: The daunting smallpox plans; full disclosure for judicial candidates; predators at the door; helping Haiti.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E7
TV Listings E8
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (88%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (88%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (87%); ARMED FORCES (86%); IMMIGRATION (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); VETO (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CENSUS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); POVERTY RATES (66%); AIRPORTS (66%); IMMIGRATION LAW (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); SENTENCING (60%); DEPORTATION (60%); JUDGES (60%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (50%); CHILDREN (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); CHINA (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002 



686 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: Oil's Effects on Africa 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "In Quietly Courting Africa, White House Likes Dowry" (front page, Sept. 19), about the increasing importance of African oil to the United States' supply, does not mention the likely negative impact of this increased production on the people of Africa. 
 Several recent academic studies confirm that countries whose economies are dependent on oil exports show exceptionally low living standards; exceptionally high rates of child mortality, malnutrition and income inequality; low rates of literacy and life expectancy; and unusually high rates of corruption, authoritarian government, military spending and civil war. 
Oil production, once viewed as a road to riches, has much more often led to local ruin.

STEPHEN KRETZMANN
Washington, Sept. 19, 2002

The writer is the oil industry analyst at the Institute for Policy Studies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); LITERACY RATES (69%); MALNUTRITION (68%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (68%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (56%)

PERSON: KRETZMANN, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



687 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: Literacy in Afghanistan 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Long in Dark, Afghan Women Say to Read Is Finally to See" (front page, Sept. 22): 
 Literacy is indeed the key to improving the well-being of both mothers and children. 
An Afghan woman in your story, Mahgul, said it best: "If I can get some knowledge, I can help my children more." 
Girls who are literate and receive a basic education are more likely to postpone marriage and childbirth, seek health care for themselves and their families, have lower rates of sexually transmitted infections and H.I.V. and encourage their own children, including girls, to go to school.
It is clear: to provide a brighter future for children in Afghanistan and other developing countries, we must invest in mothers and their children.

CHARLES MACCORMACK
President, Save the Children
Westport, Conn., Sept. 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (87%); TRENDS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (53%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WOMEN; READING AND WRITING SKILLS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ILLITERACY 

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (56%)

PERSON: MACCORMACK, CHARLES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (64%) AFGHANISTAN (90%); UNITED STATES (64%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



688 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: Vox Populi, Online 

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
ON a steamy afternoon last month, Dan Lenahan, a Battery Park City resident, gestured with his cane on the elevated walkway overlooking the World Trade Center site and told eight fellow New Yorkers why his neighborhood needed to remain separated from tourist crowds by West Street, a main artery that some people want to bury to make room for a memorial promenade.
 The meeting was remarkable not because any consensus emerged on how the area should be rebuilt ("It's so elitist," a Greenwich Village resident said of Mr. Lenahan's position), but because this physical gathering in Lower Manhattan arose from a debate in cyberspace. 
 "We wanted to visualize it for ourselves," said Maria Grieco, a music teacher from Queens who took part in the online discussion, organized by the Civic Alliance to Rebuild Downtown New York as part of its Listening to the City initiative.
Known to one another only by online aliases and argument, the members of the group -- one of 26 in the program -- stayed in touch by e-mail after their two-week discussion ended in early August. And if consensus did not emerge from their field trip, at least the perspective from Battery Park was clarified. 
"Maybe it doesn't have to be a physical reconnection," conceded Margaret Duffy of the Upper East Side of Manhattan, who sympathized with Mr. Lenahan's desire to be done with construction as the group watched dump trucks negotiate the hole below. "Maybe it could be a visual reconnection."
A meeting at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in July at which 4,000 New Yorkers gathered to pass judgment on the original six plans for rebuilding the World Trade Center has been cited as an exercise in the very principles of participatory democracy, in which informed public discussion leads to the best decisions.
Less chronicled is the experience of 800 people who could not make it to the Javits Center that day but instead convened over the Internet over a two-week period to discuss many of the same questions, at more length and perhaps with more nuance. 
The results of the online discussion were included with those of the Javits Center meeting in a report that the Civic Alliance submitted this week to the agencies responsible for the redevelopment, which have promised to study them closely.
But the 10,000-odd messages produced by the online groups are also being scrutinized as a model for civic engagement on local and national issues. Some who have monitored the process suggest that online discussion may be a more promising way to promote democratic debate than a Javits-style town hall -- in part because it is more practical. 
"You don't have to buy people lunch on the Internet or get them a free pass on the ferry to get there," said Robert D. Yaro, the president of the Regional Plan Association, one of the organizers of the Javits Center event and a member of the Civic Alliance. "And people could do this at 3 in the morning if that's when they were free."
The Javits Center meeting cost about $2 million to produce; the online discussions cost about $120,000. Although the online dialogue was skewed toward computer users and involved fewer participants from ethnic minorities, it attracted a significantly higher percentage of people under 34. More than half of the participants in online and offline groups said that their opinions had shifted over the course of the discussions.
Some organizers who tracked both processes say that by prolonging its discussions for two weeks, the online group allowed diverse points of view to be more fully explored. Rapport often developed instantly in their virtual communication, seemingly from the sense of safety people feel as they type into the ether.
"At Javits, there was no bouncing of ideas: we just went around the circle and each person had their say," said Cynthia Schmae, a consultant for Web Lab, a nonprofit organization that specializes in online communication and ran the Web discussions. "You didn't have time to get to know each other so you don't have that flow."
The meetings in Lower Manhattan and in cyberspace were organized against a civic backdrop in which Americans, particularly the young, are voting less, volunteering less and paying less attention to public affairs than those before them. Some advocates see the Internet as a potential lightning rod to encourage more civic involvement.
"In a democracy you want people talking about public issues," said Michael X. Delli Carpini, director of the public policy program at the Pew Charitable Trusts, which is sponsoring an online discussion about volunteering this fall for high school students. "There is a hope that the Internet may be a tool that can allow people to talk in a structured way about things that really matter to them and revive the impetus to say, 'I want to be involved.' "
If there is such potential, government agencies have not paid much attention to it. Only 10 percent of government Web sites offer citizens a way to comment online on issues, according to a study released this month by the Taubman Center for Public Policy at Brown University. Almost none have sponsored online discussions.
"Government planners have a service-deliver vision in which what they want to do is let people do tax filing, order licenses, get business permits online," said Darrell M. West, director of the center at Brown. "But they're not really envisioning the Internet as a tool to alter the relationship between citizens and officials."
There are plenty of reasons to be skeptical about the Internet's power to usher in a new era of Jeffersonian democracy. For now, the medium cannot replicate the visceral thrill of being at the Javits Center as thousands of people saw their votes tallied on a big screen and cheered or booed accordingly. Such emotion may ultimately drive civic participation to a degree that semi-anonymous interactions on a computer screen cannot.
Online forums are also notorious for destructive "flame" wars, a hostile form of exchange rarely seen in face-to-face settings. Stable virtual communities -- Work-From-Home Moms at Ivillage.com or MSN.com's Seed Swappers, for example -- tend to focus on narrow areas of noncontroversial interest. Web sites like CNN recently abandoned their political forums, where genuine debate was rare and grandstanding was frequent.
"It is often said that online communities are good for discussing issues but terrible at resolving them because no one ever concedes the last word," said Cliff Figallo, a former manager of The Well, one of the earliest and longest-running online communities, which has had its share of blowups.
But Mr. Figallo, who helped Web Lab recruit about a dozen volunteer moderators for the Listening to the City discussions, said that those forums were far more cohesive and productive than others he has observed, largely because they were "communities with a purpose."
The online version of the Listening to the City discussions was an afterthought. Carolyn J. Lukensmeyer, the president of AmericaSpeaks, had been planning the Javits Center meeting for months on behalf of the Civic Alliance when she met Marc Weiss, the founder of Web Lab, at a conference. Intrigued by the notion of an online meeting that could handle the overflow from Javits -- and by the Internet's potential for promoting the kind of grass-roots participation that her group advocates -- Ms. Lukensmeyer asked Mr. Weiss if he could raise funds for an online dialogue. 
Securing small grants from AOL Time Warner, the Surdna Foundation and the family of one of his volunteers, Mr. Weiss began registering participants in a matter of weeks. With virtually no advertising, the response was impressive.
Based on personal information required for registration, the 26 online groups were organized to be geographically and demographically diverse. Anyone from New York City and the surrounding counties could take part. Participants received an agenda item by e-mail every few days and responded to polling questions on topics like whom a memorial should commemorate, whether housing should be incorporated on the site and how much green space should be included.
Many participants said they were motivated by a desire to find out what others thought about a subject that they themselves felt strongly about. Others said they hoped somehow to influence the decision on what was built. A driving impulse to contribute almost as a sense of obligation surfaced in many online comments.
"I wanted to participate in what's going to happen next," said Ellen Datlow, 52, a science fiction editor who became the de facto leader of Group 4, the one that met downtown. "This is all I can do -- there is nothing else I can do to make this happen. I'm not a government official. I'm not someone with any say except a New Yorker who cares very much about what happens to the city." 
Whether people could be inspired to take part in online discussions on issues that inspire less passionate feelings is unclear. Organizers also wonder to what degree the sense of common purpose arising from the events of Sept. 11 softened and civilized the online interaction. 
But the discussion was certainly not bland. The groups, which had an average of about 30 members, exhibited the gamut of online behavior. There were members who never posted, showoffs who competed for the longest and most articulate posts, and one flamethrower who was barred from his group midway through the discussions for disruptive behavior, including posting "Rebuild the towers exactly the way they were" over and over again. 
Civic activists debate whether discussion in itself helps shore up democratic ideals, or if influencing policymakers must be the goal. An informal poll of several participants indicated that as much as they enjoyed the back-and-forth, they would like their words to have an impact rather than simply occupying cyberspace.
"Who am I?" said one, Vincent Pecoraro, a bank manager who works in Lower Manhattan. "The Port Authority owns the land. Larry Silverstein owns the lease. But there's a slim chance of hope that they're going to listen. That will be wonderful if I could have been a part of that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: IN PERSON -- From left, members of a discussion group on ground zero's future: Maria Grieco, Debra Lott, Margaret Duffy, Ellen Datlow, Vincent Pecoraro and Bill Love. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. G4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); HIJACKING (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; JAVITS, JACOB K, CONVENTION CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PUBLIC OPINION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: CIVIC ALLIANCE TO REBUILD DOWNTOWN NEW YORK 

PERSON: HARMON, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



689 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN NOTEBOOK; 
The Half-Life Of Must-Haves

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

 BODY:
THE phalaenopsis orchid must have, in the wise words of Hollywood, changed agents this year. It is appearing as an interior accessory in Architectural Digest, Elle Decor, Traditional Home, House Beautiful and Real Simple.
 "They're pretty much on every page of every magazine," said David Stanley, the owner of Horticus in Los Angeles, a flower shop that specializes in orchids. Mr. Stanley's sales of the $35 white phalaenopsis have shot from 100 to 500 plants a month in the last year. "I can't imagine anyone getting tired of something so beautiful," he said. "But it's happening, thank God. I'm sick of them." 
 The furnishings world has always had fashion envy, but it would do well to remind itself that fashion has its victims. 
Every fall season brings its bumper crop of styles and looks for the home, and with it, gently put, a ubiquity beyond belief. Coral, Andy Warhols, square table lamps.
For every Mombasa bag, the horn-handled handbag not seen at the New York fashion shows last week (it was a waiting-list item in March), there is also a piece, a pattern or a palette that has shown up at one too many parties in the September-October whirl of decorating magazines, catalogs and shops.
On the horizon: overscaled houndstooth checks. Sailing toward the horizon: the French 1940's. Off the map: Asian fusion, and pink.
"I wouldn't base my whole life on pink now," said James Leland Day, a stylist for photography shoots whose own pink apartment is pictured in Living Room magazine. "I don't think it's over, but it's peaking." There are also stories featuring pink in October's House & Garden and House Beautiful. Mr. Day moved to a new apartment last month and painted it green and blue.
"I had to push the envelope," he said.
White is the new black this year in design fashion, in particular a 1960's Pop Art movie-set white, seen most prominently in September's "Glamour Now" Vogue. White leather seemed as kicky as a plastic go-go boot when it showed up last year on Mies van der Rohe's Barcelona chairs in the private Playboy Club-like penthouse at the Park in Chelsea. It is pictured in the new catalog from Design Within Reach, a mass-market modern furniture retailer, on Barcelona chairs and daybeds, traditionally upholstered in black. The English club furniture in the public rooms at the Viceroy, a late-model boutique hotel in Santa Monica designed by Kelly Wearstler, is also upholstered in white leather, not brown.
"It's beachy, it's crisp," said Ms. Wearstler, when asked what inspired her. "I'm a leader, not a follower."
Morocco is a popular at-home destination this year, in September's W and October's Chic Simple. "The Marrakesh thing is over," said Nate Berkus, a decorator in Chicago, speaking of its power to excite as a style. "It's everywhere; it's exhausting. The family room as opium den. I wish that was my family."
Margaret Russell, editor in chief of Elle Decor, said, "One too many lanterns." (September's Elle Decor included a Moroccan-themed "hippy chic" TriBeCa loft.)
How does Ms. Russell determine what not to publish? "You just reach a saturation point, in submissions, like you're seeing the same place over and over again," she said. Ebonized floors and the "15th take on Christian Liaigre" are Code Red, red not being the new black.
Ms. Russell still likes toile de Jouy, something of a reprieve. "When you saw it, you knew it would come and go," said Mr. Day, the stylist. The French fabric, printed with 18th-century patterns, which streaked through decoration several years ago, fashionable and fresh-looking in modern interiors, has come -- and gone to the bank laughing. Target is selling it, as draperies and pants. Look for toile as place mats from E.A.T. in New York and bedsheets and tablecloths in the Martha Stewart mail-order catalog.
"The collection is selling unbelievably well," said Stacy Senior Allan, marketing manager of Thibaut, a wallpaper and fabric company with a choice of 22 toiles.
"We asked our customers recently about whether it was peaking," Ms. Senior Allan said. "They get worried when they see it on pants. But we think it will be a long-lasting trend."
Unlike sunflowers.
"Big in 1994 and '95," she recalled, like the remotest history.
Or monkeys.
"They're cute, but we're tired of them," Ms. Senior Allan said. "It was part of the British colonial thing. It's hanging on in parts of the South."
Ms. Senior Allan observed that trends now had longer lives because of economic recession and a desire for familiarity.
"Even in fashion, they're letting women wear things for two seasons instead of one," she said. "It's the same in home furnishings. You have to get comfortable with it. They're smart not to let people think they're out of fashion, that they have to redecorate every year. They'll just give up."
Jonathan Adler, a popular designer, when asked if he felt at risk of becoming a cliche, or if his work was in danger of being overexposed, said, "It takes a lot more courage to extend a trend than to start one." Mr. Adler's signature vases and pillows, with his name firmly attached in captions to pictures, have showed up in more than a few magazines lately. 
"We in New York live in a very rarefied world," he said. "Jaded and 'too cool for school.' As someone in the business of selling things, I've discovered how small the jaded world is. And how poor."
Mr. Adler, a potter by training, has stores in Los Angeles, East Hampton and SoHo and plans to open a new store on the Upper East Side in November. 
Ikea, the international cheap furnishings giant, has unleashed an advertising campaign to unmoor people from their emotional attachments to household possessions, and to promote disposability in decorating -- a high-speed obsolescence not unlike your standard trend.
"If you're in a bad relationship with old furniture but don't put an end to it, you are crazy," reads an advertisement that pictures a sturdy, serviceable table lamp that looks like someone's first spouse.
How do you learn to love again? 
"If I love it, we adapt it," said Thomas O'Brien, the president of Aero Studios in New York, and its principal designer. Mr. O'Brien's square-based, square-shaded table lamp, designed in 1992 and still in production, is instantly recognizable, in large part because of the number of look-alikes.
"It's a classic form from the 1920's and 30's," he said, acknowledging his own sources. "I have a big belief in subtle changes, like different finishes, or recoloring, or scale." Mr. O'Brien explained, "It's like clothing -- what we retire is the finishing, not the form."
Mr. Berkus, in Chicago, concurred. "Decoration is so expensive," he said. "You have to be careful about what you choose, that it doesn't play out quickly. You can call it classic, but . . . a $10,000 sofa -- it's like a commitment ceremony. There should be a blood test."
Mr. Berkus advised indulging a taste for fashion in other ways. "Don't even buy new furniture," he said. "Start at the smaller local auction houses. Paint, wall coverings, moldings, lighting, window treatments, carpeting -- the backdrop can change easily."
What does Mr. Berkus do when clients come to him with magazine pictures of popular trends in hand?
"Toile is one right now," he said. "You go with something that's similar -- it might still be a two-colored woven French textile, but it's not the Japanese garden scene you're seeing on the cover of Pottery Barn."
Joseph Riccio, a New York designer, advised touches, not strokes, that can be quickly erased. "Pillows, etc.," he said. "Bring cliches in as minor elements. As soon as the look is over, it's easier to reinterpret, instead of changing direction."
David Netto, a New York designer whose white 1960's-style basement Pop Art playroom project appeared in Living Room, said that it was designed at the client's instruction, which was "lacquer, lacquer, lacquer -- white was appended to that."
"I like not to have a signature look," Mr. Netto said. "The first thing I thought when I saw Bilbao was, 'This is great, but I wouldn't want to see two of them.' "
Mr. Netto's client had contemporary art to display, from a family collection in Houston. Mr. Netto chose work by Chuck Close, Christo and "small Rothkos."
Any Andy Warhols, King of Pop? Warhol's Factory produced, like a 20th-century toile de Jouy, nearly 10,000 silk-screen images on canvas, according to the Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh. Seven, including portraits of Goethe and Jimmy Carter, made cameo appearances in October's House & Garden and The World of Interiors -- as properly bourgeois an interior decoration as a Vermeer in a 17th-century Dutch town house.
"No," Mr. Netto said of the job. "Warhol is exactly what you would expect to find."

GRAPHIC: Photos: DOUBLE TAKES -- From left, Waverly's toile for Target and toiles in magazines and in the Martha Stewart catalog.; POTTED -- Orchids, especially the white phalaenopsis at far left, are appearing in decor magazines -- many of them.; SEEN THIS -- Warhols as pink decor in The World of Interiors. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F4); ON THE SCENE -- Pink palettes, orchid plants and toile de Jouy, the fabric du jour, are crowding this season's decorating pages. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (74%); FASHION DESIGN (74%); FASHION SHOWS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); FURNITURE STORES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



690 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: For Game Makers, Inspiration In the Soul of an Old Machine 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KUSHNER 

 BODY:
ONCE a year Malte Mundt and his friends in northern Germany party like it's 1982. That's the year the Commodore 64 hit the shelves, and Mr. Mundt and the other self-described C64 freaks stage an annual bash to celebrate their beloved, obsolete computers.
 Commodore memorabilia is traded. Beer flows. And most of all, games are played. Not just the dusty old ones, but new titles that hard-core hobbyists have been programming for the old machine. 
 This is the subculture of home-brew gaming: games composed on modern computers but played on ancient and discontinued systems like the Commodore 64, the Amiga and the Atari 2600. The coders are the Dr. Frankensteins of their world, digging up dead hardware and inserting the brains of fresh software. Part nostalgia, part programming challenge, home-brew games offer a glimpse into not only the passion of players but also the staying power of the game industry's pioneering hardware. "They have a magic that no other systems can come up with," Mr. Mundt said.
The resurgence of interest in retro games comes as the modern game industry enjoys unprecedented success. Despite the poor economy and the dot-com crash, video games earned a record $10.8 billion last year in the United States alone. The trinity of leading video game consoles -- Microsoft's Xbox, Nintendo's GameCube and Sony's PlayStation 2 -- have seduced the mainstream with robust graphics and sophisticated characters.
But gamers old enough to remember the days of the Commodore 64 and Atari 2600 are not necessarily won over by the newfangled wares. "Consoles are much more powerful and amusing for the general population," said Roman Chlebec, a 26-year-old Webmaster in Slovakia who runs a popular Commodore 64 site called the C64 Portal (www.c64.sk). "But those who grew up with C64 aren't so easily lured by computing power or number of colors." 
"You can still make games that are fun and interesting even if they pale in comparison to the Xbox," said Albert Yarusso, of Austin, Tex., who runs Atari Age (www.atariage.com), a site for fans of that company's systems, including the 2600, which was introduced in 1977 and dominated the industry for many years. Classic games like Pong and Pac-Man delivered a pure kind of competition that did not require digesting a 40-page handbook. More important, Mr. Yarusso said, unlike many of today's games, which can cost millions of dollars to develop, classic games did not require the collaboration of dozens of people on a team but could be written by one person.
Mr. Mundt, who creates Commodore 64 games with a group of hobbyists who call themselves Protovision, is driven by a pragmatic appreciation of the wares. "The system architecture for the Commodore is so simple and straightforward," he said. "It's nothing like Windows." Protovision has created games like Metal Dust, a shoot-'em-up, and Reel Fishing, a rod-and-reel simulation.
Many home-brew creators are game industry employees looking for a diversionary test of their coding skills. Mike Mika, the 29-year-old creative director of Digital Extremes, a company in London, Ontario, that makes games for the Xbox, GameCube and PlayStation 2, is responsible for one of the current hits on the home-brew scene. Aiming to improve upon one of his favorite games for the Atari 2600, Berzerk, Mr. Mika re-engineered the game to include the voice-overs originally found only in the arcade version of Berzerk. 
Making such games is a taxing labor of love, however, Mr. Mika said. "To get the 2600 to do anything requires a lot of research and digging," he said. Since the systems could support only a very small amount of data, they require the programmers to make the most out of bare-bones game play. 
Those creating titles for the cartridge-based Atari systems have the added challenge of packaging their goods. This requires them to crack open old cartridges, rip out the chips, then solder in new ones containing their code. The home-brew programmers trade or sell their creations over the Internet, at gaming conventions and at specialty shops for around $20 to $50.
Infogrames, the company that now owns the Atari license, doesn't mind players' tinkering with the obsolete wares. "If they're making games that work on the system, then more power to them," said Steve Allison, a spokesman for the company in New York. In fact, Infogrames has been exploiting the vintage factor itself. Playable versions of classic Atari titles like Tempest and Centipede are now featured during the load-in screens of Xbox and PlayStation 2 games.
Of course, if the home-brew gamers were getting rich, this might be another story. At best, they said they make soda money. Protovision has sold about 1,000 games through its site and has gained a following within the expanding C64 scene. But the Protovision programmers are not looking to dethrone consoles anytime soon. Instead, they are content to share their creations with one another over a few drinks at a party with friends.
"With one megahertz and 0.064 megabytes of memory, it shouldn't be possible to do anything, according to the multimedia hype of today," Mr. Mundt said. He takes pleasure in proving those multimedia partisans wrong. "It's fascinating what can be done with this machine."

GRAPHIC: Photos: PAST AND PRESENT -- Malte Mundt, who lives near Hanover, Germany, and other hobbyists use PC's to create new games like Reel Fishing for the old Commodore 64 home computer. (Thom O'Connor, above left; Walter Schmidt/Novum for The New York Times, above) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%) COMPUTER AND VIDEO GAMES 

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ATARI (CO); COMMODORE (CO) 

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: KUSHNER, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (69%) TEXAS, USA (79%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SLOVAKIA (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



691 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Japan Markets Resume Their Search for the Bottom 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
With another bout of selling today, Japan's leading stock market index finished erasing all its gains from one week ago, when the nation's central bank startled investors by announcing an unorthodox plan to buy company shares held by wobbling commercial banks.
 But though the announcement had only a fleeting effect on the Nikkei index, which is once again flirting with 20-year lows, its political impact still seems to be developing. Reports raced around Tokyo tonight that a senior official widely regarded as a roadblock to aggressive action on Japan's long-running banking crisis might be on the verge of departing. 
 The Mainichi newspaper reported that Hakuo Yanagisawa, the chief of the Financial Services Agency, the principal financial regulatory body in Japan, said he would resign because he opposed the new plan to bail out banks with public funds. In the late 1990's, Mr. Yanagisawa oversaw a huge banking bailout costing billions of dollars, and some analysts think he opposes a second one because it would amount to an admission that the first one failed. 
Mr. Yanagisawa said today that "there is no truth" to the resignation report. But Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi was more coy, telling reporters today only that "it has not become a topic yet."
The prime minister's approval ratings jumped back up to about 60 percent after his visit last week to North Korea. The terms in office of a number of officials in the ruling Liberal Democratic Party expire Monday, and Mr. Koizumi has scheduled meetings this week to pick a new slate; he may use the occasion for a minor cabinet shuffle as well.
The first half of the Japanese fiscal year also ends Monday, a day of reckoning for the banks. By law they must revalue their huge portfolios of stocks and other assets based on that day's market prices, which will probably mean booking large losses. Analysts say that if the Nikkei average falls below about 8,000, some of the big banks will find themselves with too little capital to meet international standards; the Nikkei closed today at 9,165.41.
The looming accounting deadline, coupled with a possible break in the political deadlock here, will help make Japan a focus of attention on Friday, when finance ministers and central bank governors from the Group of Seven industrialized nations gather in Washington for a conference.
With its banking system saddled with at least $425 billion in nonperforming loans, Japan, the world's second-largest economy, stopped being an engine of global growth long ago. Now, with exports having declined slightly during the three summer months, it appears that last spring's tentative economic upturn has ended. For the full year, Japan's economy will probably shrink by half a percentage point, the worst showing of any major world economy, the International Monetary Fund estimated today.
"The banking system is struggling, consumer spending is down, the U.S. economy is weak, oil prices are near $30, there is deflation, political gridlock, reforms that have not been implemented -- otherwise, things are perfect," said Mickey Kantor, the former secretary of commerce, on Tuesday during a visit to Tokyo.
According to a senior Bank of Japan official, the surprise plan to buy stocks from banks was meant, in a season of policy drift, as "a wake-up call to banks, the government and the public."
"This unprecedented action by the Bank of Japan was driven by our serious concern about the current state of our financial system, which could not be fixed without more outright public intervention," the official said in a briefing to foreign reporters, on condition that he not be identified by name. "We thought this might be the last chance. The government and the prime minister are now under pressure by our action."
The plan's parameters -- a maximum of $15 billion in shares to be bought over the next two years -- will not free up nearly enough capital by itself to cope with the mountain of bad loans. But "the Bank of Japan action at least deserves some credit for showing the willingness to think outside the box," said Kenneth Rogoff, chief economist for the International Monetary Fund, speaking to reporters in Washington today. 
Last week's announcement by the bank, which has a fair degree of independence, caught the government off guard. Markets fell when Mr. Koizumi failed to follow it immediately with new action on the bad-loan problem; instead, he promised new measures in a month. The lack of coordination drew criticism.
"Unless you serve the main course while the appetizer is still warm, it can only have limited impact," said Kathy Matsui, chief investment strategist here for Goldman Sachs.
Mr. Yanagisawa said last weekend in a videoconference with American and European officials that Japanese banks were making progress, disposing of some $80 billion in bad loans this year, and that they were on track to get the problem under control by 2005. But others are skeptical.
"It is very important for us to see whether the F.S.A. will have a comprehensive and concrete solution in the near term, which I don't think is happening," Takahira Ogawa, head of Asian sovereign ratings for Standard & Poor's, told reporters here today, referring to the Financial Services Agency. "If that is the case, it was the wrong decision by the Bank of Japan."
Robert A. Feldman, chief economist here for Morgan Stanley, voiced a common note when he said: "If Yanagisawa retains his office, it is a signal to markets that there will be no change in strategy. The markets will react negatively."
While one foreign analyst calls the Bank of Japan's stock purchase plan "Japan's Hail Mary pass," bank officials say they are unfazed by the markets' fall back to earth. They say they never intended the share purchase plan to be a "price-keeping operation," as efforts to prop up markets here have been nicknamed.
Warning that "stock prices could fall further," Masaru Hayami, the bank's governor, told a parliamentary committee today that "the plan is meant to provide stability to the overall system."
In a different measure of skepticism about Japan's stock markets, Merrill Lynch said on Tuesday that its Japanese equities division would be grouped with the rest of Asia and administered from Hong Kong. Earlier this year, Merrill closed most of its retail brokerage branches in Japan after losses of nearly $200 million over three years.
"A bad debt resolution has been the financial markets' holy grail over the past decade," Richard Jerram, chief economist for ING Barings Securities Japan, wrote to clients Tuesday. "There have been so many disappointments that we have to fight hard to avoid automatic dismissal of any measures that are announced. Healthy skepticism is a better approach." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); TRENDS (74%); BONDS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; BANKS AND BANKING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; YANAGISAWA, HAKUO 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) JAPAN (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



692 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Small Loans to Small Concerns in Brazil 

BYLINE:  By TONY SMITH 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
A handwritten notice taped on Lucia Velli's front door in the heart of Heliopolis, one of Sao Paulo's oldest and most labyrinthine shantytowns, announces that Mrs. Velli, a seamstress, is looking for help.
 "Now I have the new machine, I can hire an extra girl," said Mrs. Velli who, at 46, has been given the chance to prove her entrepreneurial worth thanks to a loan of less than $400 from a new microlending operation in her neighborhood. 
 The secondhand sewing machine that she bought with the money can run up the clothes that she puts together for Lojas Riachuelo, a major Brazilian retail chain, at speeds of up to 7,000 stitches a minute. That is twice the pace of any of the three rickety machines that clatter away in her tiny upstairs sewing room, and with it, Mrs. Velli calculates, she can double her current weekly production of 700 garments.
"My idea is to pay off the machine in a year and then take out another loan to buy another one," Mrs. Velli said. 
"It also means I could start up a night shift."
Brazil was one of the first countries in the world to experiment with microfinance nearly 30 years ago. But making small loans to minute businesses never really caught on here, largely because years of hyperinflation and a series of wilting currencies made interest rates prohibitive for would-be borrowers. 
And, as in most other developing countries, in Brazil microfinance was largely considered a development issue rather than a business. Projects were typically run by government institutions or aid groups -- the so-called nongovernmental organizations -- rather than by commercial banks, which were involved mainly as donors. That meant that even though hundreds of microfinancing projects sprang up across the country, none really gained critical mass.
Last month, however, Banco Real, which is owned by ABN Amro of the Netherlands and is Brazil's fifth-largest private bank, introduced Real Microcredito.
Though it is just a one-branch loan operation serving Heliopolis's estimated 100,000 inhabitants and 3,000 small, mainly informal, businesses, it is the first such effort by a major bank here. If successful, it could help spread commercial lending to thousands of small Brazilian companies currently starved of credit. "Scale is important in a country as big as Brazil," said Maria Otero, president of Accion International, a microlending group based in Boston that is Banco Real's partner in the Heliopolis project. Banco Real's involvement, she predicted, could get other major banks interested across the region.
"So far, commercial banks haven't even dabbled in microfinance, so this is an extremely significant effort," she said. 
Short-term loans are made with an interest rate of 3.5 percent a month, compared with rates as high as 12 percent on bank overdrafts and 20 percent offered by local money lenders.
"It's in our statutes that the bank should generate wealth not only for shareholders and employees, but also for the community," said Maria Luisa Pinto, director of social responsibility at Banco Real. "So once you've said you'll do something, you'd better do it."
For banks operating in Brazil, first-half profits rose 45 percent, to some $3 billion, from the first six months of 2001, according to the central bank, while average family income has fallen in the last four years. But Ms. Pinto vehemently rebuffs any suggestions that her bank's microcredit effort is either charity or a marketing gimmick.
"Yes, there is a value added for the bank's image, but that's not why we are doing this," she said. "Compared with the bank's other operations, the program is irrelevant in terms of size, but its impact on society is not irrelevant at all."
"We don't expect it to boost our profits by millions, but the program must be able to finance itself and grow," she added.
Carlos Daniel Coradi, president of the Sao Paulo financial consulting firm EFC, said banks were anticipating that whichever candidate wins Brazil's presidential elections on Oct. 6 will probably squeeze the profits of banks from market operations, cut interest rates and encourage the industry to provide more accessible loans to help kick-start the flagging economy.
"ABN is simply being very intelligent and is first off the mark," he said. "I wouldn't be surprised if other Brazilian banks, such as Bradesco have similar plans waiting in the wings for after the elections."
Backed by Accion International and $750 million from USAID, Real Microcredito has 3 managers and 11 credit agents, or young account managers who don yellow and green T-shirts with the slogan "Let's grow together" and the bank's telephone number. They plow Heliopolis streets prospecting for business.
So far, 23 loans of $60 to $1,500 have been granted for periods of 4 to 12 months, but Flavio Weizenmann, who coordinates the project at Banco Real, predicts each agent will soon have 200 to 300 clients.
Depending on the success of the Heliopolis pilot program, Banco Real expects to open microcredit branches in two other poor areas of Sao Paulo next year and then to start expanding across Brazil.
In the poorer northeast, where Banco Real has bought two state-owned banks, Mr. Weizenmann expects to have 16,000 clients and $7 million in outstanding loans five years from now. He estimates the potential market for microloans in Brazil to be 10 million to 12 million borrowers.
With 6,000 clients, the Heliopolis project should break even, he said.
The poor are a good credit risk, Ms. Otero of Accion said. "In 20 years of lending to over three million people in Latin America, Accion has a loan loss rate of about 2.5 percent," she said -- a very low rate.
Banco Real works hard to eliminate risks. Clients and credit agents go over the accounts of borrowers carefully before any cash is disbursed. Mrs. Velli almost failed to get a loan because her agent discovered she had not paid a $7 phone bill.
Business plans are also discussed. Marcelo Pinto, who heads the Heliopolis branch (and is no relation to Ms. Pinto of Banco Real), said that although most applicants have little formal education, they often prove to be as sharp as many an M.B.A. 
Joao Nogueira, a pastry chef who supplies cafes and colleges across Sao Paulo with cheese puffs and spicy meat pies from a tiny kitchen in Heliopolis, said a loan of just $280 gave him "alavancagem" or leverage, to negotiate cheaper prices with suppliers by paying upfront.
"I currently make 12,000 pies a month, and I can't keep up with demand," he said. 
"I think 20,000 a month is a reasonable target, so I'm hoping this first loan will get my foot in the door at the bank and next year they will give me a bigger loan so I can expand."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 27, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business yesterday about loans to small businesses in Brazil misstated the financial backing provided by the United States Agency for International Development to Real Microcredito, a commercial venture making such loans. The agency, known as USAID, provided $750,000, not $750 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joao Nogueira, center, a pastry chef who supplies cafes and colleges across Sao Paulo, said a $280 loan gave him leverage to negotiate cheaper prices with suppliers by paying upfront for raw materials. (Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (75%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); RETAILERS (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (66%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%) SMALL BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT 

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ABN AMRO; BANCO REAL (BRAZIL) 

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: SMITH, TONY; WEIZENMANN, FLAVIO 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (68%) BRAZIL; HELIOPOLIS (BRAZIL) 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



693 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN; 
McCall Answers Negative Ads

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
 H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller and Democratic nominee for governor, released this 30-second ad yesterday to be shown on upstate New York broadcast stations and cable stations in the suburbs of New York City. It is his first ad in a week and the first in response to two negative ads by Gov. George E. Pataki in the past week.

PRODUCER -- GMMB

ON THE SCREEN -- Mr. McCall speaking into the camera with occasional flashes of text, emphasizing his points.

THE SCRIPT -- "I'm Carl McCall, the guy George Pataki's running all those false, negative ads against. So let me set the record straight. I oppose any tax increase. As comptroller I uncovered $1.6 billion in wasteful spending and invested 70 percent more in New York businesses. With our economy and schools failing, George Pataki figures he can't defend his record, so he attacks me instead. I think New York deserves better, and that's why I'm running for governor."

ACCURACY -- Mr. Pataki is running two English-language negative commercials (and a Spanish-language one) against Mr. McCall. Mr. McCall's stance on taxes has not always been clear. In a television interview last year, he did advocate restoring the "commuter tax" on workers who live outside New York City. In a debate last month he said taxes should be "the last thing we should think about." He backs up his assertions about wasteful spending with reports issued by his own office. Mr. Pataki's campaign disputes Mr. McCall's assertions about investments in New York. They cite annual reports of the pension fund Mr. McCall oversees to assert that during Mr. McCall's tenure as comptroller "direct investments" in New York fell 39 percent, to 6.1 percent from 10.1 percent. The state of the schools and economy depend on what part of the state you are in.

SCORECARD -- This is a double-barreled ad, seeking to confront Mr. Pataki's criticisms while allowing Mr. McCall to present himself to voters, many of whom, polls indicate, do not know who he is. Mr. McCall tries for a personal connection, looking directly into the camera, but he runs the risk of sounding defensive and giving weight to Mr. Pataki's criticisms by reminding viewers what they were. Still, a substantial number of potential voters will never see this ad, or two of Mr. Pataki's, because they are not running on New York City stations. RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); SUBURBS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



694 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Employment and prosperity affect body inflation.

BYLINE:  By Hal R. Varian; Hal R. Varian is an economics professor and dean of the School of Information Management and Systems at the University of California at Berkeley. E-mail:hal@sims.berkeley.edu.

 BODY:
CLOSE to half the American population is estimated to be overweight, a condition that has serious economic consequences because of its impact on labor supply and health care.
 Body weight is itself influenced by economic variables, often in complex ways. For much of human history, poorer people were thinner than richer people. Even today, inhabitants of rich countries tend to be heavier than those of poor countries. But within countries, wealthier people often weigh less than others. What causes these differences? 
 The economic determinants of weight are investigated in "The Growth of Obesity and Technological Change," a recent paper by Darius Lakdawalla and Tomas Philipson (National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper No. 8,946).
Mr. Lakdawalla and Mr. Philipson argue that there are two distinct economic drivers of body weight: a supply-side effect caused by higher incomes and lower food prices, and a demand-side effect caused by the increasingly sedentary nature of work.
Rich countries tend to have relatively low food prices and more sedentary jobs than do poor countries, making them fatter on average. But within rich countries, everyone faces the same food prices and similar technology, so differences in weight are influenced by other factors, like education and income.
Doctors perennially tell us to eat less and exercise more. But economic factors are working against their advice: food keeps becoming cheaper and work keeps becoming physically easier. It's not surprising that we keep gaining weight, despite our doctors' advice.
There has certainly been a sharp increase in weight over the last century, equivalent to a 30-pound gain for a 6-foot man. Remarkably, this change occurred while the calories available from the food supply declined over much of this period. Only in the last 10 years have the calories per person per day climbed significantly over the level available in 1909.
This suggests that, in aggregate, most of the increase results from too little exercise, not too many calories. Mr. Lakdawalla and Mr. Philipson set out to try to determine just what fraction of the weight gain can be attributed to each factor.
They start with a data set that tracks individual reports on occupation and weight. The Bureau of Labor Statistics rates occupations by how physically strenuous they are, so this allows determining the average amount of exercise associated with each person.
Mr. Lakdawalla and Mr. Philipson were rightly suspicious of the self-reported weight figures in their sample and found another data set with both self-reported and measured weight, which allowed them to estimate actual weight from the self-reported figures. One interesting finding: virtually all women tend to underreport their weight, while only heavier men do; lighter men tend to overreport it.
The next step was to determine how food prices and income affect weight. Income was relatively easy, since it was reported in the original survey. Prices were harder, but the authors solved this with a clever trick. About half the states levy a sales tax on food, while half do not. Hence the relative price of food varies from state to state, and this variation is enough to estimate the impact of price changes on body weight.
Mr. Lakdawalla and Mr. Philipson report a number of findings. More schooling tends to reduce weight, but by a relatively modest amount. Being black or Hispanic tends to increase weight, by a quite significant amount. Being in a sedentary occupation for a year leads to a small increase in weight; but staying in that occupation for 14 years causes a significant increase.
These are all statements about the partial effect of each economic variable, holding the other variables fixed. An increase in schooling tends to increase income, so weight might go up on both accounts. But economists are generally interested in the partial effect of an increase in schooling, holding income fixed. Determining such partial effects requires a model of the behavioral forces that jointly determine the relevant variables.
After a detailed statistical analysis of the data, the authors conclude that about 40 percent of the growth in weight in the last 20 years has been caused by the increased supply of food and 60 percent by the increase in sedentary employment.
As the authors put it: people used to be paid to exercise, since most work involved heavy physical labor. Now we have to pay to exercise, by taking time away from sitting in front of computers and TV's.
Technological change, the main culprit in the fattening of America, may yet save us. Research in weight-control drugs, food and technology is booming, so perhaps scientists will find a way that we can have our cake and eat it, too (a particularly apt metaphor in this context).
Mr. Lakdawalla and Mr. Philipson point out that while their study focuses on the supply of calories, the quality of calories matters as well. The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey reports that the portion of calories generated by fat consumption actually fell in the 1980's. But the increase in total calories consumed in that period pushed up the total fat intake. Examining the changing composition of calories is a promising avenue for future research.
Let me suggest that it would also be of considerable interest to extend this study to other cultures. My unscientific observations suggest that Europeans -- particularly the French -- consume a higher proportion of fat in their diets, but they also eat smaller portions and walk much more.
I wonder if the National Bureau of Economic Research would sponsor a trip to Paris to observe at close hand the eating practices of the French. It would be necessary, of course, to spend many hours sitting at cafes observing their daily habits. Yes, this is tough work, but I suspect that some economist would be willing to take up the challenge.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two researchers say that there are distinct economic determinants that are influencing body weight: higher incomes and lower food prices and the increasingly sedentary nature of work. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OBESITY (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); DIETING (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); STATISTICS (72%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WEIGHT; OBESITY; INCOME; FOOD; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (57%)

PERSON: VARIAN, HAL R; LAKDAWALLA, DARIUS; PHILIPSON, TOMAS J (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



695 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: With Pataki And McCall, Tone Takes A Nasty Turn 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki and H. Carl McCall yesterday traded a ferocious round of accusations on education, claiming failed policies and dishonest campaigning, with each side unveiling a new television ad attacking the other.
 Once again, the campaigns turned up the volume on a contest for governor that was already noisier and nastier than races usually get before the final weeks. They issued a flurry of statements in even harsher language -- "lying," "desperate," "disastrous" -- than in their carefully worded ads. 
 A new poll released yesterday showed that Mr. McCall, the Democratic candidate, had pulled within 11 percent of the Republican governor among likely voters, a far cry from the 20- to 30-point leads Mr. Pataki enjoyed for most of the year. The poll, by Quinnipiac University, had Mr. Pataki at 46 percent and Mr. McCall at 35 percent.
Tom Golisano, the Independence Party nominee who has spent more than $31 million of his own money on the race, had 14 percent of the vote, double his share two months ago.
Strategists in all three campaigns said the poll -- which roughly mirrors other recent surveys, including the campaigns' -- helps explain some of the desperate tone heard yesterday from the Pataki and McCall camps. 
The governor wants to deliver a knockout blow to Mr. McCall before the state comptroller can define himself in the eyes of voters, many of whom are still unfamiliar with him or his record, and before he can make a close race of it.
But if Mr. McCall pulls any closer, he will be taken more seriously and will be able to raise more money, lessening his campaign's enormous financial disadvantage.
Referring to the poll, Mr. McCall said, "It's clear that maybe the governor is threatened by that and is trying to derail our momentum, but he will not be able to do it because the people of New York want change."
When asked about the campaign, the governor insisted that he did not look at polls and disavowed any role in his own ads. But his spokesman, Michael McKeon, compared Mr. McCall to the Democrat Mr. Pataki thrashed in 1998, winning by 21 percentage points. "It looks like Carl McCall is right on track to end up slightly ahead of Peter Vallone, which has got to be very disturbing to him and his fund-raising team," he said.
Mr. McCall has made education the centerpiece of his campaign, assailing the governor for, among other things, opposing a lawsuit that demanded more money for New York City's schools, and blocking the expansion of prekindergarten programs.
After largely ignoring the attacks, the Pataki campaign began a full-throated response last week, with a series of ads attacking Mr. McCall's record on economic development and as president of New York City's Board of Education in the early 1990's. Mr. Pataki's new ad continued that drumbeat, this time in Spanish.
The new McCall ad responded by accusing the governor of deceit. It begins with the candidate saying, "I'm Carl McCall, the guy George Pataki's running all those false, negative ads against."
A Pataki campaign statement responded, charging that there had been "months of misleading attacks by Carl McCall that have distorted the proud Pataki record for education."
Allen R. Cappelli, Mr. McCall's campaign manager, responded back, saying that after "a series of desperate, misleading, negative ads, George Pataki is floundering."
His counterpart, Adam Stoll, then accused Mr. McCall of going back on a promise not to engage in negative campaigning. "Which Carl McCall do you believe?" he asked.
Mr. Cappelli said that "George Pataki is lying about Carl McCall's record" and using "phony numbers."
All but lost in the din were the candidates themselves. Mr. Golisano visited downtown Manhattan to declare that the state was heading into a fiscal crisis, which he blamed mostly on the governor, and to propose a program of belt-tightening.
State officials and financial analysts say the state faces a multibillion-dollar deficit next year, after significantly raising spending three years in a row, despite the economic downturn. A top Pataki ally, Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader of the State Senate, who has been campaigning for Mr. Pataki, recently predicted that the gap will be $8 billion to $10 billion.
Mr. Pataki's office and his campaign have consistently refused to address questions about that problem. Yesterday, Mr. McKeon said Mr. Bruno's estimate was too high, but declined to offer another one.
Mr. Golisano has mostly trained his fire on the governor, but he suggested yesterday that might change. He said he would run "a campaign against the duopoly of the Republicans and Democrats and the conditions that they've got our state into."
Mr. McCall and Mr. Pataki attended the same event outside the United Nations building in Manhattan, though not at the same time, joining in the Jewish Community Council's celebration of the holiday Sukkot. Each man sat in a sukkah, a small hut built for the occasion, joined a rabbi in a toast with Fresca, spoke out in favor of Israel and deplored the recent bombings there.
Today, former Vice President Al Gore will be the star attraction at a fund-raising reception for Mr. McCall. Mr. Pataki will turn to a more unlikely source for star power, collecting the endorsement of the rapper LL Cool J.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 27, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the campaign for New York governor misstated the name of the sponsor of a Sukkot celebration that the candidates attended at the United Nations. It is the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York, not the Jewish Community Council.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. George E. Pataki, left, was welcomed to a Sukkot celebration yesterday by Rabbi Shmuel M. Butman. H. Carl McCall, right, attended the event in Manhattan later in the day. (Photographs by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



696 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Tyco's Chief Says Earnings Will Be Lower Than Expected 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
In his first presentation to analysts and investors since his appointment as Tyco International's new chief executive in late July, Edward D. Breen said yesterday that the company's earnings in the fourth quarter would be much lower than earlier expected.
 Mr. Breen, who has hired forensic accountants to undertake a review of the company's accounting for the last three years in the wake of criminal charges against its former top executives, said that he now expected to report earnings of 30 to 33 cents a share for the quarter ending this month instead of the 45 to 47 cents the company had estimated in in July. 
 Despite the revised earnings expectation, which he attributed to higher-than-expected taxes and slow electronics operations, Mr. Breen said that his examination of the company's books left him comfortable with Tyco's past accounting. In response, investors bid up Tyco's shares 10 percent, or $1.41, to $15 a share, on his upbeat mood about the company. 
"What is pretty neat, you know, in a very difficult economic environment, is our revenues are very good," Mr. Breen said during the conference call. "We are not dropping off. We are not losing market share." He said that he expected the company to produce revenue of about $9.1 billion in the fourth quarter.
Mr. Breen also said that the company's internal investigation, which is being conducted by 50 accountants and 8 lawyers in 45 locations around the world by the law firm Boies, Schiller & Flexner and the forensic accounting firm Urbach Kahn & Werlin Advisors, was 40 percent complete. So far, he said, no serious irregularities have been discovered.
"We have not yet found anything that would require additional disclosure," Mr. Breen said. "I believe the steps we have taken in the last two months are putting us on the right road."
Tyco, which is nominally based in Bermuda for tax purposes but operates out of Exeter, N.H., and Boca Raton, Fla., owns dozens of companies that make products ranging from surgical instruments to security systems. It is also among the biggest suppliers of undersea fiber optic cables and electrical connectors. Tyco employs more than 270,000 people.
Mr. Breen -- who promised to move the company in a different direction after the many acquisitions engineered by its former chief executive, L. Dennis Kozlowski -- said that one crucial goal was to regain the trust of Tyco's customers. That would mean convincing them that the company remains healthy and solvent despite the indictments of Mr. Kozlowski and Mark Swartz, the former chief financial officer, on charges that they looted Tyco by paying multimillion-dollar bonuses to themselves without the board's authorization.
"The most important thing, in my opinion, when I came into the company, and I've stated this many times, was fixing corporate governance and fixing the real and perceived liquidity gap," he said. "We have customers that just read -- and I'm not meaning this negatively -- they read newspaper articles, they hear things, and they are not, they don't understand the details.
"I want our customers very calm, very relaxed," he said, so that the scandals involving Tyco's former executives are not "an issue in their buying and decision-making in purchasing from Tyco." 
Analysts said that they were relieved by Mr. Breen's straightforward approach.
"He was direct and reassuring," said Harriet Baldwin, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, who has a buy rating on the stock. "People expected him to lower the numbers."
Mr. Breen also addressed fears that the company might run out of cash, saying that he hoped to reach a new financing agreement in advance of February, when a big chunk of debt comes due. 
"I feel very comfortable with our liquidity situation, the gap that exists -- and I always plan around conservative scenarios because once I fix that gap, I want it fixed," he said.
He also told investors that he might scale back manufacturing in the TyCom unit and might also shed small, nonstrategic businesses, though he said no decisions had been made yet.
Tyco expects to take a charge of $2 billion to $2.5 billion on its TyCom fiber optic network, which it has spent $3.5 billion building over the last two years. Mr. Breen insisted that such a charge, which would mean that Tyco would end up writing off more than $4 billion in losses on the network, would not breach any bank covenants. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ALARM & DETECTION SYSTEMS MFG (89%); FORENSICS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INDICTMENTS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); LAWYERS (76%); ELECTRONICS (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); MISAPPROPRIATION (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); FIBER OPTICS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; FRAUDS, MISAPPROPRIATION AND SECURITIES VIOLATIONS 

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (74%); BOIES SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (TYC) 

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (74%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (74%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%) SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT; 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (73%) BERMUDA (76%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



697 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: California Culprits 

 BODY:
Federal investigators have now unearthed further evidence that market manipulation by energy companies played an important role in California's power crisis in 2000 and 2001. We have long known that clever trading strategies devised by companies like Enron helped jack up the price of power. Now comes a ruling from an administrative judge at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission that the El Paso Corporation illegally inflated the price of natural gas. Because natural gas is used to produce much of California's power, inflating its price had the effect of driving up the cost of electricity. 
 The company has denied the charges. The ruling must be reviewed by the four members of the regulatory commission, and will almost certainly be appealed if the commission upholds the judge. Yet the company's case does not look promising. According to the judge, Curtis Wagner Jr., El Paso deliberately reduced the flow of natural gas through the main pipeline into Southern California, leaving more than 20 percent of the pipeline's capacity unused from Nov. 1, 2000, to March 31, 2001. In that same period, natural gas prices in Southern California soared to five times the price elsewhere in the country and, indeed, on the other side of the California border in Mexico. 
 The report represents the first time that any federal regulatory official has found widespread manipulation of energy supplies, as distinct from energy prices. The finding represents vindication for California's Gov. Gray Davis and Senator Dianne Feinstein, who have long suspected manipulation by gas companies. It also reflects well on the commission chairman, Patrick Wood III. A complaint from California about El Paso's behavior had languished in the files for nearly a year until Mr. Wood came aboard and cranked up the commission's investigative apparatus.
More broadly, the ruling demonstrates the folly of rushing to simple answers about something as complicated as the California energy crisis. It will be recalled that Vice President Dick Cheney put most of the blame on a natural gas shortage, which he then used as an argument for opening up vast areas of the West (including Alaska) to oil and gas exploration. It's now clear that the shortages were exacerbated by some of Mr. Cheney's old friends in the energy business who gamed the system.
By the same token, however, it would also be wrong to blame the whole mess on manipulation. For one thing, industry did not build nearly enough new capacity to keep pace with California's booming economy. For another, the state's flawed deregulation scheme practically invited unscrupulous behavior. Still, it's encouraging that Washington is finally getting the goods on the manipulators. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); VACCINES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (79%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (76%); JUDGES (76%); TERRORISM (74%); SMALLPOX (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (71%); OIL EXPLORATION (50%) SMALLPOX; VACCINATION AND IMMUNIZATION; TERRORISM; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

COMPANY: EL PASO CORP (84%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (84%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



698 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Tyco Gave Finance Chief $45 Million Severance Pay
Tyco International agreed to pay a severance package of $44.8 million in cash to Mark H. Swartz, its chief financial officer, at a time when he was already under investigation by a grand jury in Manhattan that later indicted him on fraud charges.
 The agreement, struck on Aug. 1, the day that Mr. Swartz resigned from Tyco, was approved by two members of its compensation committee on Aug. 14. The amount was not disclosed to shareholders. Page A1. 

David F. Myers, WorldCom's former controller, is expected to plead guilty as early as today, people involved in the case said. C5.

Coke 'Passes' First Diversity Test
Coca-Cola received passing grades for its recent treatment of women and minority employees from an independent diversity task force. The company has made "real progress" toward achieving the goals that were set forth in the settlement agreement of the 1999 racial bias lawsuit against Coke, according to the task force's report. But it said significant challenges remained. C3.

Airline Unions Offer Concessions
Five unions at United Airlines offered long-awaited wage cuts and other concessions that total $1 billion a year over five years. C2.

G.E. News Propels Stocks Higher
General Electric led a rally in stocks, helping the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index record its biggest gain in six weeks. The S.& P. 500 added 20.37 points, or 2.5 percent, to 839.66. The Dow climbed 158.69 points, or 2.1 percent, to 7,841.82. The Nasdaq composite index added 40.12 points, or 3.4 percent, to 1,222.29. C9.

Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that a diversified and innovative financial system had helped the United States economy weather the stock market slide and the terrorist attacks. C13.

Sales of existing homes fell 1.7 percent in August, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.28 million units. C8.

Artists Fight Music File-Sharing
In a series of ads that begin running today, Britney Spears, Sean Combs and Luciano Pavarotti are joining about 90 other recording artists to speak out against unauthorized music file-sharing. Advertising. C4.

Report Details Fraud at Bell Labs
Extraordinary advances claimed by researchers at Bell Labs turned out to be fraudulent, a panel investigating the matter found. A1.

Columnist for The Nation Quits
This week's column by Christopher Hitchens in The Nation, a magazine of the political left, will be his last. His departure ends a 20-year relationship that has grown increasingly rancorous over the last few years. Mr. Hitchens and the editors of The Nation have been in something of an intellectual death match. C4.

Europe to Delay U.S. Sanctions
The European Commission has drafted a recommendation that sanctions against the United States should be shelved until after a World Trade Organization ruling, which is expected next year. C7.

The Economics of Weight Gain
Researchers argue that the crucial economic factors that explain weight gain are increases in income and the food supply as well as the rise in the sedentary nature of employment. Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 7,841.82 up 158.69Nasdaq composite -- 1,222.29 up 40.1210-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.76% up 0.11The euro -- $0.9769 down 0.0044The dollar -- 122.85 yen down 0.48 Graph shows Coca-Cola's share price since last Wednesday. Graph: "TODAY"Durable Goods OrdersGraph shows the percentage change in durable goods orders since February 2002.August figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -3.0% New-Home SalesGraph shows the percentage change in new home sales since February 2002.August figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -3.6%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); SEVERANCE PAY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); GRAND JURY (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (73%); RACE & RACISM (73%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); AIRLINES (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); EXISTING HOME SALES (64%); WRITERS (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); TERRORISM (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (59%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (59%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); KO (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (59%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (59%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: BRITNEY SPEARS (53%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



699 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: City Poverty Rate Shows First Rise in 5 Years 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
After declining for five straight years, the poverty rate in New York City is beginning to grow, according to an analysis of new Census Bureau data by an advocacy group for the poor. 
 The slight increase in the poverty rate does not fully reflect the extent to which the events of Sept. 11 and the general economic downturn have swelled the city's unemployment rolls and homeless shelters in 2002, said the Community Service Society of New York, the poverty research and advocacy group that prepared the analysis. 
 The society predicted that poverty rates would continue to grow, but several economists said that given the trouble the city underwent in 2001, the increase of 0.4 percentage point was as good as could be hoped. 
The analysis is based on data from the Census Bureau's annual Current Population Survey, which uses a statistically small sample of door-to-door and telephone surveys and was released Tuesday. 
To create a more numerically significant sample, the society averaged two consecutive years of census data and found that New York's overall poverty rate for 2000 and 2001 was 20.2 percent, or 0.4 percent point higher than the average for 1999 and 2000. The percentage of New Yorkers beneath the federal poverty level had been declining steadily since 1995-1996, when it stood at 26.4 percent. 
The 0.4 percentage point increase in local poverty rates mirrored exactly the rise in poverty rates in the rest of the country, which rose to 11.7 percent from 11.3 percent. As with the national survey, non-Hispanic whites were the racial group for whom the poverty rate notably increased. In the city in 1999-2000, 9.1 percent of non-Hispanic whites were beneath the poverty threshold; in 2000-2001 11.6 percent were.
Mark Levitan, a senior policy analyst with the society, said the latest data showed that poverty rates in the city followed unemployment rates closely, a pattern which, he said, does not bode well for the city. Last year the city's unemployment rate averaged 6.1 percent. The city's unemployment rate now is 7.6 percent.
Other economists' views of the latest figures were less grim. "Any rise is unfortunate," said Rae Rosen, a senior economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, "but it sounds pretty good to me, given the loss of jobs we've had and the kinds of jobs we've lost."
Mr. Levitan also said the close correlation between poverty rates and unemployment rates showed that a recent decline in welfare rolls had more to do with a good job market than the welfare-to-work policies of the Giuliani administration.
"We don't see any evidence that welfare reform has changed that pattern," Mr. Levitan said. "The fact that poverty has stopped declining as the economy has weakened is evidence that the decline in poverty in the late 1990's was driven by the expanding economy, not welfare reform."
Supporters of the changes in the welfare system that sent roughly 600,000 people off the city's rolls in the last five years said, however, that the mild increase in poverty, especially because it affected largely non-Hispanic whites, was proof that the changes were working. "If we saw a sharp increase in poverty among minorities, that might be cause for concern," said Lawrence Mead, a professor at New York University who studies welfare patterns, "but you don't see that here." 


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (95%); POVERTY RATES (94%); CENSUS (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (56%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



700 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: County Budgets Pinched by State Medicaid Changes 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
County governments across New York State are facing big budget shortfalls next year, largely because of new health-care costs that Gov. George E. Pataki and the Legislature have thrust upon them.
 The combination of a sluggish economy and the increased health-care costs means that many county executives are proposing steep tax increases or service cuts. Broome County, for instance, is considering either a 35 percent property tax increase or a 25 percent increase in the sales tax. Erie County is planning to cut its work force by 7 percent. Westchester County is trying to plug a $120 million deficit next year. 
 The financial distress among local governments owes much to the recession and the need to increase pension-fund contributions because of the drop in stock prices. Local officials say the governor and legislative leaders have made the situation worse by expanding the Medicaid program to include more services and to increase the salaries of health-care workers.
Health-care costs account for anywhere from half to all of a county's property tax revenue, and this year, counties statewide will spend $4.3 billion on those costs.
Unlike most states, New York requires counties to pay a quarter of Medicaid costs. That means every time the Legislature adds a new program under Medicaid, local governments pick up much of the bill. 
"I call them Albany taxes," said the Westchester County executive, Andrew J. Spano, who is president of the New York State Association of Counties. "Albany is making us collect their taxes."
This year, for instance, the Legislature increased reimbursement rates to raise salaries for health-care employees and required coverage for poor women with certain cancers. The Legislature also required coverage for hospice care and for disabled people who enter the work force but cannot afford insurance. 
On average, what counties pay for health care rose 12 percent in 2002, and that is expected to increase next year, too. In some counties, the Medicaid budget has become as big as the property tax collections, according to the association of counties. 
New York City is facing its own problems with Medicaid costs as it struggles to deal with a caseload that has jumped to more than 2 million this year, from 1.6 million. 
Rising local taxes have become an issue in the campaign for governor, especially in the New York City suburbs, where Mr. Pataki's opponents have tried to link him to the increases. 
Mr. Pataki frequently takes credit for many of the new health programs like Child Health Plus that are paid for through Medicaid. He also played a pivotal role in passing the bill in January that provided money to raise the pay of health workers, which is currently costing counties about $50 million annually.
The governor's budget aides say there are larger trends at work. The costs of prescription drugs and doctors' fees have risen rapidly across the nation, they point out. In addition, demographic shifts in upstate New York have meant more and more elderly and poor people are signing up for the program. 
Several county executives acknowledged that some of the rise in costs was beyond Albany's control. "It's both sides of the coin," said Mark W. Thomas, the Democratic county executive in Chautauqua County. "It's the economic conditions but it's also the add-ons."
County executives say the governor and lawmakers, in essence, have shifted the financial burden for several programs from the state to the federal health-insurance system, and thus to the counties as well. 
"It's happening because in Albany they are giving away the store," said Nicholas J. Pirro, the Onondaga County executive. "If you could take your friends out, run up a nice bill and only pay 25 cents on the dollar, you would do it a lot."
Mr. Pirro, a Republican, said Onondaga County, which includes Syracuse, had been forced to raise property taxes 6.5 percent and to cut about 200 jobs because of a $9 million rise in medical costs and about $4 million in new pension contributions. 
Aides to legislative leaders concede that changes have raised county costs but, they said, in the long run some programs will save the counties' money by providing insurance for the uninsured. Enrolling uninsured people with menial jobs in Medicaid, for instance, means counties do not have to pick up the entire hospital bill if those people fall seriously ill. 
Tom Santulli, the Chemung County executive, said Medicaid costs in his county rose 21 percent over the last year and were projected to be more than the entire property tax levy next year. The county has raised the sales tax to 8 percent from 7 percent to pay for the program. 
In Nassau County, Thomas Suozzi, the Democratic county executive, said the larger-than-expected pension contributions along with the new Medicaid programs have added at least $120 million to a budget shortfall. "There is a growing problem in New York State where the state passes laws to create programs but leaves the costs on the property tax-payers," he said. "They take credit for great programs but they don't pay for them."
One effect of the rising medical expenses has been that counties are paring back other services, like roads and economic development grants. In Chautauqua County, Medicaid costs are expected to go up 39 percent next year. Pension costs will rise eight-fold. 
Mr. Thomas said he has proposed a 28 percent property tax increase to cover those costs, but what is more troubling to him is that he has had to cut a quarter of Chautauqua County's economic development spending. More and more of his budget is going to medical programs, he said. "If this keeps up, what we will end up being is an insurance company." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (94%); MEDICAID (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); HOSPICE (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); LEGISLATION (65%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



701 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 61 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Trade Surplus Doubles 

BYLINE:  By Ken Belson (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Japan's trade surplus more than doubled in August as exports continued to grow. 
The surplus stood at 644 billion yen ($5.23 billion) in August, 108 percent more than in the month last year. Exports grew 6.2 percent, helped by strong demand for electronics goods in Asia and steel in Europe. The surplus with the United States shrank 7.3 percent. Ken Belson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); TRENDS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (85%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



702 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 69 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: South Korea: Household Debt Grows 

BYLINE:  By Don Kirk (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Korean households are in debt for $325 billion, 8 percent more than at the end of the first quarter, the Bank of Korea said. 
Consumers borrowed 34 percent more in the second quarter this year compared with the quarter last year. Park Seung, the Bank of Korea governor, said the downturn in the American economy and the threat of war in Iraq made it risky to raise interest rates, now 4.25 percent. Don Kirk (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (85%); TRENDS (83%); INTEREST RATES (51%) CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF KOREA (93%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF KOREA 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%) SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

PERSON: KIRK, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHERN ASIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); ASIA (91%) SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



703 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL; 
How Knicks Drummed Up Business

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
For a decade, the Knicks' season-ticket waiting list symbolized their success and gave them the cachet of a hot Broadway show.
 But after the Knicks' failure to make the playoffs last season for the first time in 15 years and the recession that has hammered Wall Street, Madison Square Garden, for the first time, contacted everyone on the team's 8,000-person waiting list. 
 Dipping so deeply into the waiting list yielded 2,000 new season-ticket buyers, bringing the Knicks close to last year's season-ticket base of about 15,000, said Steve Mills, the president of sports team operations for the Garden.
"We offered everybody on the waiting list an opportunity to purchase season tickets," Mills said. "We've sold 2,000 new seats to people who weren't in the building last year. We feel very positive about that." 
It was the most extensive use of the waiting list since it was formed in 1992, he said. 
Usually, hundreds of people on the list are contacted, but the Garden had never contacted everyone.
The list grew in tandem with the Knicks' success, ballooning as high as 15,000 several years ago before the Garden pared it down to 8,000 by separating those who were serious buyers from those who were not.
A similar effort was made last year to spur Rangers season-ticket sales, Mills said. The Rangers have not made the playoffs since 1997. "Most people didn't know they could get season tickets," he said, referring to both the Rangers and the Knicks, who fell to 30-52 last season.
The Garden, which will put a limited number of Knicks individual and season tickets on sale tomorrow, said prices would remain unchanged for the first time in 10 years. Ticket prices are $10, $26.50, $40, $56, $67, $79, $100, $210 and $285, with a limited number of $750 and $1,600 seats at or near courtside. At an average cost of $89.80, Knicks tickets are the most expensive in the N.B.A., according to Team Marketing Report.
Mills declined to say specifically how many Knicks season-ticket holders did not renew this year. And he said he did not know how many had given the tickets up because of the Knicks' mediocre performance or out of financial necessity.
Mark Sullivan, group publisher of the VNU Sports Group in Manhattan, said both factors merged in his refusal to renew his two $56 tickets for the Knicks' 41 home games. He went to only five games last season and found the tickets difficult to give away.
"If you factor in tickets, food, a taxi and a baby sitter, that's $200 for a mediocre experience," he said. "For $200, you can go to a Broadway show, to Lincoln Center, or have a spectacular dinner."
Mills said there were various reasons most of those on the waiting list elected not to buy season tickets: they could not afford them; they wanted tickets in a more expensive price range that were not available; they preferred to buy partial plans of 10 to 14 games, which will be made available soon.
"We'll be going back to the people on the waiting list for the mini-plans," Mills said.
Dan Migala, executive editor of Team Marketing Report, said that throughout sports, the usual attrition of season-ticket holders has been jolted by the economic slowdown.
"It's a different time," Migala said. "Some people on waiting lists signed up in better times."
Jennifer Weil of Manhattan was one of those informed by mail of the availability of season tickets, at a price range of $26.50 to $79 each, after waiting only two years.
"No way I could afford a full season," said Weil, a former television producer and a recent graduate of Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism. "So I asked if I could do 12 games, and they said I'm on the list, so keep calling."
Although she expects to buy a 12-game Knicks plan, her basketball passions have shifted since she joined the waiting list.
"I've been Knicks a fan for eight years, but they've gotten really bad," Weil said. So recently she bought a 12-game plan for the Nets at Continental Arena.
Lou Lamoriello, the chief executive of the Nets, was not available to discuss the effect of sharply higher ticket prices on season-ticket sales for his team after it won the Eastern Conference championship.
Weil is lucky to have waited only two years. The fans who most recently bought season tickets to Giants games in the Meadowlands had sat expectantly for 23 years on the team's 20,000-name waiting list.
Recently, two men who signed up on the Green Bay Packers' 57,500-name waiting list in 1974 received their long-coveted tickets.
Waiting lists can sustain once-powerful teams through hard times.
The Chicago Bulls' onetime waiting list of 20,000 names kept United Center season-ticket sales robust through Michael Jordan's first retirement, and for most of the time since his second retirement. Sellouts ended last season, as the cumulative effect of the Bulls' woes ate into sales of season and individual tickets, Tim Hallam, a team spokesman, said.
"It's normal practice to have turnover year to year on waiting lists," said Bernie Mullin, a senior vice president of the N.B.A. But, he added, "The vast majority of teams don't have waiting lists." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



704 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 74 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Firms Solicited For Downtown Studies 

BYLINE:  By Edward Wyatt (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

 BODY:
 State and city redevelopment officials said they were seeking consulting firms to study ways to enhance and expand residential and retail project offerings along streets in Lower Manhattan. On Monday, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation and the Department of City Planning issued calls for proposals to conduct the studies. The proposals are due Oct. 14 and outlines of the studies can be found at www.renewnyc.com. Edward Wyatt (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); CITIES (86%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



705 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: AT HOME WITH/STEPHANIE ODEGARD; 
Good Weaves Meet Good Deeds

BYLINE:  By NANCY HASS

 BODY:
THIS month, as many of Stephanie Odegard's Upper East Side neighbors were straggling home from a summer of traffic and crowds in the Hamptons, she was returning to her one-bedroom apartment on East 90th Street from Kashmir, a war zone of an entirely different magnitude.
 Ms. Odegard, 53, who is known for her designs for modernized Tibetan rugs, which cover the floors of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, Restaurant Daniel in New York and the homes of Christy Turlington in New York and Robert Redford in Aspen, Colo., did not go to Kashmir as a tourist. She was on the sort of one-woman mission that has characterized her career. 
 "I hadn't been in Kashmir for years, and I was really shocked by how bad things had gotten," she said last week, speaking of the flare-up of hostilities between India and Pakistan over that Muslim region, part of which is controlled by India as the state of Jammu and Kashmir. 
Sitting in her apartment, Ms. Odegard was surrounded by her own carpets mixed with modern furniture, including a Le Corbusier chaise lounge and a Thonet table. But the objects and textiles she has collected in Asia over the years are largely from the 17th and 18th centuries, including a Tibetan painted box (traditionally used to hold ritual butter sculptures) and ancient Japanese robes.
The bits and pieces of fabric and artwork form a virtual road map of the 25 years she has spent helping third world artisans make beautiful things. She does it because she believes that some day the making of handicrafts may resuscitate their disintegrating societies.
As she has done for decades, Ms. Odegard conducted this business trip amid rubble. She flew into Srinagar, the summer capital of the Indian state, where she had an appointment with the head of a small weaving collective. He had cashmere and valuable Kashmir saffron to use as a dye but didn't know how to do the dyeing. 
Ms. Odegard carried some of the cashmere and saffron back to one of her four rug factories in Nepal, so that samples of the yarn could be spun and dyed by her craftsmen. The collective is now making saffron-dyed shawls, which Ms. Odegard plans to sell in January from her carpet showroom in New York for $500 each and up, with at least half going back to the weavers. 
The trip was a small effort by her standards. Her company, Odegard Rare and Custom Carpets, and her life are built on the twin foundations of good deeds and good business. Thirty years ago, when most designers of her generation were at art schools or apprenticing in ateliers in the East Village, Ms. Odegard, a former department store buyer, was a Peace Corps volunteer in Fiji, assigned to helping crafts merchants make their wares attractive to Western buyers. (Growing up a Lutheran in Minneapolis, she had wanted to be a missionary.) She stayed in the nonprofit world for more than a decade, working for the World Bank and the United Nations as a consultant on improving indigenous crafts in places like Jamaica and India.
In 1987, after a posting in Nepal, Ms. Odegard, who has no formal design training, went into business in New York, arranging to make high-end Tibetan carpets in Nepal, with the work overseen by Tibetan refugees. (Most Tibetan carpets, prized for their lanolin-rich wool from sheep that graze in the Himalayas, have been made in Nepal since 1959, when the Chinese annexed Tibet.)
Ms. Odegard started her company as a way to prove an economic theory. After years in the third world, she was convinced that the best way to raise the standard of living was to produce high-end crafts. That project would take more skilled, higher paid workers. The World Bank had tried to achieve the same end, but through grants. "Stephanie really bucked that trend and she was incredibly dogged," said Nancy Barry, who was the World Bank program director when Ms. Odegard was there, and who is now the president of Women's World Banking, a New York-based organization that makes small loans to third world entrepreneurs.
Then Ms. Odegard set about reviving the market for Tibetan carpets, which typically had borne tribal motifs, making them too busy for elegant interiors. "I had been teaching people in Nepal to make good carpets, but I couldn't find anyone to buy them," she said. 
She decided to give her Tibetan carpets a new look by paring down the motifs and using antique Asian textiles as an inspiration, and she increased the knots for a square foot to a sleek 100 from the traditional 50 or 60. She also developed new dyes to add richer, more modern shades to the palette.
Starting in 1987, with an East 22nd Street apartment she used to lived in as her showroom, she has built her business into a company with $10 million a year in sales. After a rocky start -- her company nearly went bankrupt in 1993 -- she found her niche, selling these lush yet minimalist carpets to interior designers and architects who didn't balk at 8-by-10-foot carpets for $5,000 to $20,000. 
"She worked very hard to get the right people to see them," said Sherri Donghia, the design director of Donghia Furniture and Textiles, who has for years used Ms. Odegard's carpets in the displays she creates in her own showroom. (Ms. Donghia has begun designing a collection for the Odegard label.)
"She encouraged you to put your face into the carpets to see the dyes and how much life there is in them," Ms. Donghia said. "She made you see that there's real soul in the products."
Ms. Odegard's persistence paid off: her carpets got wide play in magazines after they were chosen for the Getty Museum in 1997 and for the Phillips Collection, the museum in Washington, in 2000. David Rockwell, the New York architect, began using Ms. Odegard's carpets in his projects as well, including the rooms and the mezzanine of the Chambers Hotel, which opened last year. "She's completely modern without being minimal," Mr. Rockwell said. "There's complexity and depth to everything she makes."
Ms. Odegard is now among the biggest importers of Tibetan carpets to the United States, where some three million square feet of Tibetan carpets were imported last year, according to the Central Carpet Industries Association, a trade group in Nepal. In 1985, Americans imported 70,000 square feet of carpet from Nepal. The market's growth, which began in the mid-90's, can be at least partly credited to Ms. Odegard. A glance inside any design magazine shows ads from more than a dozen boutique-size Tibetan carpet makers, few of which were in business a decade ago. 
And, said Ms. Barry of Women's World Banking, the boom has helped shore up Nepal's faltering economy, just as Ms. Odegard envisioned. 
Jack Lenor Larsen, the fabric designer, acknowledged Ms. Odegard's contribution: "Stephanie created the market for Tibetan carpets as an element in contemporary design. Now they're everywhere, enormously important. That's entirely because of her. She was the first to do it, and she was alone doing it for many years."
Ms. Odegard now works from a 15,000-square-foot showroom at 200 Lexington Avenue. The four Nepali-owned factories where her carpets are made employ more than 10,000 workers. Next month she will open Paradeisos International Design Studios, a 30,000-square-foot, three-building complex designed by Alison Spear in the Miami design district. There, she will focus on an expanded line of her designs, including jewelry and fabrics.
At home, Ms. Odegard seems a particularly unlikely type to have spent her life muscling her way into the American rug market. If she is pugnacious, she hides it behind a gentle facade, calm blue eyes and a wardrobe of handmade linen and draped wool. She is the largest American financial supporter of Rugmark, an anti-child-labor organization, to which she gives 1.7 percent of the selling price of her rugs ($60,000 last year) and a third of her time. She contributes at least $100,000 more to initiatives of her own, like building a school in Katmandu. 
But when she speaks about her social agenda, she has no canned human rights spiel. When she mentions the carpets underfoot, which she changes every few months -- "to get to know all of them, really deep down" -- she reflexively leads the conversation back to the skill of the weavers and how the factory owners she works with have become enlightened about child labor. 
"It's hard for me to talk about myself in any sort of reflective way because I've never had the time to even think about it," she said. "Some people have a totally formed idea of where they're going from the beginning, but I didn't. I really thought I would just go back and forth and help a few people. I had no idea it would turn into this."
Although she spends much of her life on the road, mainly in India and Nepal, her Upper East Side apartment serves as a place to retreat from what she calls the "soul-draining energy" of New York and as a casual warren for her collection. This year, after friends chided her about her small apartment, Ms. Odegard, who is single, purchased the apartment below hers to make an 800-square-foot duplex. But she has not found the time to start a real renovation.
In one corner there are some pieces of Murano glass, and above an artfully worn Chesterfield couch there is a painting by Chucho Reyes, a Mexican painter who worked with Luis Barragan in the 1920's, but most of Ms. Odegard's pieces are crafts from cultures she has seen up close.
"I see more than just the objects, I see the people who made them," she said. "It's like looking at a Gauguin painting and wondering what those women in Fiji or Tahiti were thinking. I know what they were thinking."

GRAPHIC: Photos: GOOD FIBER -- Stephanie Odegard has helped popularize Tibetan rugs woven in Nepal. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. F1); THINKS GLOBALLY -- Stephanie Odegard, left, and in the Peace Corps in Fiji in the late 70's, far left. At her home, center left, a Thonet table, a Le Corbusier chaise and an Odegard carpet; below, antique Bhutanese silk and antiques from China, Europe and Japan. ; SUNSTRUCK -- Ms. Odegard's Pebbles rug, left, from her new Miami Collection, in hues meant to evoke the beach. It was made in Nepal with Himalayan wool; $56 a square foot. (Photographs by Roger Davies for The New York Times)(pg. F11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARPET & RUG MILLS (76%); SCULPTURE (76%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); TEXTILES (71%); FABRICS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); RETAILERS (60%); VOLUNTEERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) KASHMIR (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%) ASIA (95%); INDIA (94%); TIBET (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEPAL (93%); CHINA (90%); FIJI (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



706 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1881 words

HEADLINE: Rock's Bad Boys Grow Up But Not Old; 
Half a Lifetime on the Road, And Half Getting Up for It

BYLINE:  By BERNARD WEINRAUB

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Ask Mick Jagger about growing old -- and everyone does ask -- and he grimaces. 
 "Musicians don't think about this very much," said Mr. Jagger, 59, seated in a hotel room here, where the Rolling Stones performed three recent sold-out concerts. 
 "Rock 'n' roll requires a certain amount of energy," he explained. You just can't do rock 'n' roll sitting on a bicycle going 10 miles an hour. You really have to wind the energy level up -- that's part of the main ingredient. It's not like you have to be a brilliant musician, but you need a kind of explosive kind of musical energy to play rock 'n' roll well. And we have that." 
The Stones will bring that energy to Madison Square Garden tonight in the first of three concerts in the New York City area. They will perform at Giants Stadium in the New Jersey Meadowlands on Saturday night and at the Roseland Ballroom in Manhattan on Monday night.
Keith Richards, the Stones' legendary guitarist, put his view of aging another way. Seated backstage at Comiskey Park before one of the concerts here, Mr. Richards, also 59, sipped a glass of orange juice. Incense burned beside an ash tray as he lighted a cigarette. "I want to do it like Muddy Waters -- till I drop," he said.
The Rolling Stones, who have defined rock 'n' roll as much as any group for more than 35 years, insist, almost defiantly, that their creative vitality and, yes, their health are thriving. Having become enormously wealthy as members of the most successful rock band in history -- the Stones' 1994 "Voodoo Lounge" tour grossed an industry record of $124 million -- they said they had no desire to settle down in their mansions.
"This is not something you retire from," Mr. Richards said. "It's your life. Writing songs and playing is like breathing -- you don't stop."
Mr. Richards lives in Weston, Conn., with his wife, the former model Patti Hansen, and their two teenage children. (He also has two older children from his long relationship with the actress Anita Pallenberg in the 1960's and 70's.) "The Stones are incredibly strong and a well-oiled machine," he added. "Ideas keep popping up. After every tour -- you've been on the road maybe three years -- you go home and forget about it for, like, a year, and then after about 18 months, you start to expect a phone call. And after a few weeks, it'll be like Mick or Charlie saying, 'Are we going to do anything?' " 
Charlie Watts, 61, the band's quiet drummer, who has served as a mediator in the periodically strained Jagger-Richards relationship over the years, wasn't defensive about his age. "I think about the age issue myself," he said. "It doesn't upset me when journalists talk about it. I do know that I saw Duke Ellington when he was in his 70's, and he was fabulous. And he toured every day of his life. We lead a cushy life by comparison."
In the cities they have visited so far in their North American tour -- Boston, Chicago and Philadelphia -- the Stones have performed in locations of different sizes. The variety enables them to play contrasting shows. Mr. Richards called it "the Fruit of the Loom tour -- small, medium and large."
More than Mr. Richards, Mr. Watts and the guitarist Ron Woods, who is 55, Mr. Jagger is especially sensitive to the age issue and makes it plain that every time he talks to a journalist, it's like visiting the dentist. Even more than successful contemporaries like the members of the Who, who have also faced age questions, the Stones have always promoted themselves as classic bad boys whose defiance is almost as significant as their music. (The writer Tom Wolfe once said: "The Beatles want to hold your hand. The Stones want to burn your town.")
Mr. Jagger famously said in his youth that he couldn't imagine singing "Satisfaction," the Stones' signature song, at 30. As long ago as 1978, Chet Flippo wrote in Rolling Stone, "The Stones gave it everything they had -- these old pros, crippled by age and dissipation, but still holding the flag high." (The bassist Bill Wyman quit the band in 1992 after 31 years partly because, he said, he did not want to continue playing the same songs.)
More recently, the British tabloid The Daily Mirror displayed a photo of the four Stones looking grizzled, accompanied by the caption, "Would you let your grandmother marry one?" 
A clearly annoyed Mr. Jagger said here, "It's the press that seems to care about age, not audiences."
Joe Levy, the music editor of Rolling Stone, stressed that the Stones were still a powerful symbol. "In the 60's they stood explicitly for social change," he said. "Their stance was political, even revolutionary. They no longer carry that message, but they still carry the underpinnings of it -- live by your own rules, your own passions. They do what they want, when they want to do it." 
He credited their uncommon endurance to Mr. Jagger and Mr. Richards. "Jagger ensured the Stones' longevity by managing their business affairs with an iron hand," he said. "Keith has ensured their longevity by stubbornly managing their music. Together they form this remarkable power." (On Oct. 1 Virgin Records is releasing a two-CD Stones retrospective, "Forty Licks," with 36 songs and four new ones.)
With songs that helped define and stretch rock 'n' roll, as well as Mr. Jagger's skills at prancing and preening to seduce an audience of stadium size -- he was the first rock star to do so -- the group seems unstoppable. "We're as frisky as teenagers," said Mr. Richards, who has written about 200 songs with Mr. Jagger.
Even the Stones are impressed by their ability to do what many other rock stars and bands could not: physically survive the 60's and 70's. But they almost didn't. Brian Jones, their most musically adventurous member, who left the band while battling drug problems, was found dead in his swimming pool on July 3, 1969. The coroner's report cited "death by misadventure."
Mr. Richards has acknowledged that he spent most of the 70's as a heroin addict in a narcotic haze. He said his arrest by Royal Canadian Mounted Police in 1977 in a Toronto hotel room finally led him to beat his addiction, though the charges of heroin and cocaine possession hung over him for 18 months, threatening to land him in prison for a long time and end the Stones' career. (He was given a one-year suspended sentence.)
"I know I was the most likely to die," said Mr. Richards, his famous face heavily lined by years of hard living. "It was an experiment that went on far too long, and it's the only thing in the world that ever beat me. And I put up a hell of a fight."
"I think what dope sort of initially gave me was a certain barrier between myself and what was actually going on," he said, taking a long drag of his unfiltered cigarette. He described a kind of dual existence. "I really wasn't living in a rock 'n' roll jet set fantasy," he said. "I was down in the street, trying to get my stuff and meeting very, very interesting, bizarre characters as a result. In that way it was like another life."
As he put it: "O.K., one half of you is famous. You can have this Rolls-Royce and all that, and the other is like being in the gutter, and always keeping one foot in it."
Even Mr. Watts, known as the least flamboyant and most stable member of the group, unraveled in the mid-1980's. He said he began smoking heroin and getting drunk. "I was very ill," he said. "I wouldn't say I was dying, but I looked like I was. Was it a midlife crisis? I don't know. I remember having this feeling that I missed out on everything because I was what I was. My personality changed completely. It was a nightmare for my daughter and wife." 
Mr. Watts said the threat to his marriage -- he has been married 35 years -- led him to alter his life. "For six months I lived on nothing but nuts and raisins, and then I added spinach," he said. "Keith said I've become a monk. It was difficult at first. It showed me the power of drugs. I realized what they can do to you."
The lives of the Stones -- especially Mr. Jagger's marriages and affairs -- have threatened, at times, to overshadow their music. But even after four decades, they seem intensely engaged in their work as musicians.
"They assimilated American roots music -- Muddy Waters, Motown, rockabilly, rhythm and blues -- and achieved something unique on their own," said Peter Wolf, the former front man for the J. Geils Band, whose new album, "Sleepless" (Artemis), features Mr. Jagger and Mr. Richards performing with him separately on two songs.
The Stones' absorption of the early rock canon is probably another reason for their longevity. Mr. Jagger and the other members of the band mentioned many American rock 'n' roll figures as significant models. 
Mr. Jagger pointed in particular to Eddie Cochran (who died in 1960 at 22), as well as Buddy Holly, Chuck Berry, Bo Diddley and Elvis Presley.
"I just absorbed a lot of that music and I know it well," he said, adding Richie Valens and the Everly Brothers to the list for reasons that went beyond their work. "I mean they had such great hair -- how did they do that?"
Mr. Wood said he listened to Charlie Parker and Marvin Gaye. Mr. Richards said his mother, who sold washing machines and played the ukulele, constantly listened to Ella Fitzgerald, Billy Eckstein, Sarah Vaughan and Count Basie. Mr. Richards said that as he grew older, performers like Waters and the great Delta blues guitarist Robert Johnson took hold of him.
While the Beatles sang "Eleanor Rigby" and other songs with British backdrops, the Stones were decidedly more American. "I think that's the difference between us and the Beatles," Mr. Richards said. "They were much more home grown. We were always looking out. It was the difference between Liverpool, which to a Londoner is very provincial, and London, where we came from."
Mr. Richards said his sometimes tense relations with Mr. Jagger were, for the moment, smooth. He once called Mr. Jagger "a lunatic with a Peter Pan complex." He had also been critical of Mr. Jagger's knighting earlier this year, saying it distanced the band from its scrappy roots. And he has made blunt comments about Mr. Jagger's solo project last year, "Goddess in the Doorway."
But whatever their ups and downs, the two musicians have been in each other's lives since childhood. They went to the same elementary school, and then ran into each other at the Dartford, Kent, train station in 1961. Mr. Jagger, on the way to classes at the London School of Economics, was carrying some American rhythm and blues records he had bought via mail order from Chess Records in Chicago. Mr. Richards was bound for Sidcup Art College. They became friends, and the Rolling Stones formed the next year, taking their name from the classic Muddy Waters blues tune "Rollin' Stone."
Mr. Richards said his relationship with Mr. Jagger was complicated, but that they were inextricably bound to each other. "I mean I don't know the man for nothing -- once in a while he needs to be put in his place," Mr. Richards said with a smile. "We've known each other since we were 4 years old. We are very different people in many ways. It's strange. We know when to stay apart and when to let things bring us together. We can't get divorced. You can get rid of the old lady, but I can't get rid of Mick, and he can't get rid of me."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts on Thursday about the Rolling Stones on tour misspelled a band member's surname at one point. He is Ron Wood, not Woods. The article also misspelled the surname of one American musician cited by band members as influential and the given name of another. The two are Billy Eckstine, not Eckstein, and Ritchie Valens, not Richie.
In late editions yesterday, a review of the Stones concert at Madison Square Garden gave an incorrect spelling in some copies for the name of an opening act planned for later in the tour. It is the Strokes, not the Stokes.



GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rolling Stones, at the Aragon Ballroom in Chicago, are playing in locations that range from stadiums to clubs on their current tour. (Marc PoKempner for The New York Times)(pg. E6); Mick Jagger, left, in Chicago, says you need energy to play rock. Keith Richards says he'll do it until he drops. (Marc PoKempner for The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); POP & ROCK (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); SONG WRITING (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (56%)

PERSON: MICK JAGGER (90%); KEITH RICHARDS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



707 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Existing-Home Sales Off 1.7% In Slowing of a Record Pace 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes fell 1.7 percent in August, a national real estate trade association said today, as home buying settled from record levels earlier in the year.
 Sales of previously owned homes slid to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.28 million units from an upwardly revised 5.37 million pace in July, the National Association of Realtors said. 
 The August sales level fell short of the expectations of a pace of 5.4 million units. 
"It's still a very healthy pace but certainly we are winding down from the boom," the group's chief economist, David Lereah, said.
But other analysts said the data showed signs that consumer confidence was beginning to erode in the face of job pressures, tumbling stock markets and the prospect of war with Iraq.
"Even with low interest rates, if jobs and the economy stay weak, and risks to balance sheets from the bad stock market and international risks remain, I think we're going to see hesitation in buying big-ticket items like homes," said Allen Sinai, chief economist for Decision Economics.
Home buying levels surpassed a 5.7 million sales pace in four of the first five months of this year, but have been below the 5.4 million pace for the last three months. Mr. Lereah said he expected home sales to hit more than 5.4 million units for the year, breaking last year's record of 5.3 million.
Housing has been thriving even as much of the economy has stayed lackluster in the aftermath of last year's recession. Buyers have taken advantage of the lowest rates in over four decades to buy, refinance and remodel homes.
Rates on the popular 30-year fixed-rate mortgage hit new lows this week. The Mortgage Bankers Association said today that rates dipped to 5.85 percent, the lowest since the group began tracking rates in 1990.
The median house price rose to $163,600 in August from $162,500 the preceding month, and was up 6.4 percent from August a year ago, the real estate trade group said.
Inventories also rose. There were 2.2 million homes available for sale in August, or a 5-month supply at current sales rates, up from a 4.7-month supply in July.
Regionally, existing-home sales rose 2.2 percent in the West, but fell 1.8 percent in the South, 5.9 percent in the Midwest and 1.6 percent in the Northeast. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING (86%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); HOME PRICES (73%) HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%) NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS; MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSN OF AMERICA 

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (64%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



708 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Says Diversified System Aids U.S. Economy 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, said today that a diversified and innovative financial system had helped the United States economy weather the stock market slide and the terrorist attacks. 
 "Despite the draining impact of a loss of $8 trillion of stock market wealth, a sharp contraction in capital investment and, of course, the tragic events of Sept. 11, 2001, our economy held firm," Mr. 
Greenspan said in a speech to top British financial officials in London. 
 "These episodes suggest a marked increase over the past two or three decades in the ability of modern economies to absorb shocks," Mr. Greenspan said. "The increased resiliency now clearly evident arguably supports the view that the world economy already has become more flexible." 
A copy of Mr. Greenspan's speech was distributed in Washington. 
Mr. Greenspan said financial innovations had allowed lenders to become more diversified and had made borrowers far less dependent on specific institutions for financing. 
"If risk is properly dispersed," he said, "shocks to the overall economic system will be better absorbed and less likely to create cascading failures that could threaten financial stability." 
Mr. Greenspan did not mention the future course of interest rate policy.
In an earlier speech today in London, Mr. Greenspan urged policy makers not to regulate the over-the-counter derivatives market, saying it might crimp innovation in financial services.
"By design, this market, presumed to involve dealings among sophisticated professionals, has been largely exempt from government regulation," Mr. Greenspan said, adding, "In part, this exemption reflects the view that professionals do not require the investor protections commonly afforded to markets in which retail investors participate." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); BONDS (72%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; STOCKS AND BONDS; CAPITAL INVESTMENT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



709 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: The Healthy Politics of Iraq 

 BODY:
President Bush and the Democrats in Congress are suddenly in meltdown mode over the issue of who is playing politics on the eve of a possible war with Iraq. Mr. Bush has begun using the campaign against terrorism in his stump speeches, declaring that Democrats are "not interested in the security of the American people." Yesterday Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, fired back with an impassioned denunciation of Mr. Bush. Meanwhile, Al Gore is accusing the president of being political, and being accused of the same thing by the White House. None of this is unhealthy. We just wish all this intensity was being directed at the issue of Iraq instead of people's political motives.
 The Democrats have nothing to be ashamed of in raising questions about whether a war to oust Saddam Hussein is justified right now. If anything, Mr. Daschle and Richard Gephardt, the House minority leader, have been timid in refusing to challenge the White House strategy of mounting a war effort with only minimal consultation with American allies in Europe, the Arab world and the United Nations. At first Mr. Daschle said he wanted an extended debate about a possible war. Then he panicked after it became clear that such a debate would put the most vulnerable Senate Democrats on the spot in the election. Now Mr. Daschle wants a war resolution passed within two weeks. 
 Mr. Gore no doubt made a political calculation in deciding to attack the war against Iraq, just as he made a political calculation to keep quiet about his disagreements with Mr. Bush for so long after the election. The mere impudence of his thinking that he might have something to say has alarmed many let's-change-the-subject Democrats and sent Republicans into a gleeful litany of personal attacks against a favorite enemy. But the fact is that many Democrats in Congress who are rushing to get a resolution passed say privately they agree with Mr. Gore, who accused the White House of botching the campaign against terrorism and mobilizing the United States for war with Iraq to avoid having to talk about its economic failures.
It is not, and should not be, possible to debate sending troops into battle without people getting passionate and angry. There is no more grave obligation by members of the House and Senate than to look carefully at such a question. The Bush administration has to recognize the legitimate concerns of lawmakers who do not want to give the president a blank check to wage war wherever he wants in the region and without any initial steps being taken to try to avoid a conflict. Casting slurs on the patriotism of anyone who raises a question is unfair and borders on un-American.
The main questions that Congress and the administration need to address are simple. Congress must write a resolution that proposes a timetable in which the United Nations will have a chance to resume weapons inspections and disarm Saddam Hussein's most lethal weapons before force is authorized. The White House and lawmakers must lay out for Americans the potential effects a war would have on the drive against terrorism, and the struggle to track down the perpetrators of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
They should also come forward with a more comprehensive discussion of what sort of government is to be established in Iraq after what could be a swift rout of Mr. Hussein's forces. Picking up the pieces in Iraq after a war, and installing a government that commands the respect of Iraq's fractious population, could prove more difficult than unseating Mr. Hussein.
These are huge questions. Debating them vigorously right now does not preclude the use of force against Iraq. It guarantees that force, if it is used, will be carried out with the full understanding of the people about what they're getting into. What we do not need is a fight about how awful it is to have a fight. Americans are more mature than that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%) EDITORIALS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); TOM DASCHLE (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GORE, AL; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



710 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE CONGRESS; 
DASCHLE DEFENDS DEMOCRATS' STAND ON SECURITY OF U.S.

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE and TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
Pent-up partisan rancor over domestic security legislation and Iraq policy erupted today when Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader, demanded an apology from President Bush for saying the Senate was "not interested in the security of the American people."
 In an emotional speech on the Senate floor, Mr. Daschle seized on Mr. Bush's statement on Monday that the Senate, where Democrats favor protecting workers' rights in the proposed Homeland Security Department, "is more interested in special interests in Washington." 
 Mr. Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, took offense, saying: "That is wrong. We ought not politicize this war. We ought not politicize the rhetoric about war and life and death." 
He added, his voice growing raspy: "You tell those who fought in Vietnam and World War II they are not interested in the security of the American people," because they are Democrats. "That is outrageous."
Republicans immediately countered that Mr. Daschle had taken Mr. Bush's remarks out of context and was politicizing the debate himself. The White House and Republicans insisted that the president's criticisms addressed just the fight over labor regulations that has stalled legislation for the proposed department, not Iraq policy.
The spokesman for the White House, Ari Fleischer, said it was "time for everybody concerned to take a deep breath, to stop finger-pointing and to work well together."
Members of each party agreed that the eruption could slow the drive for a joint Congressional resolution on the use of force in Iraq, as well as forming the department. 
Progress on drafting a United Nations resolution that would give Iraq two months to demonstrate a willingness to cooperate with weapons inspectors was also slowed by divisions in the administration and among Western allies. Page A16. 
Mr. Daschle said the issues of Iraq and domestic security were intertwined, and he reiterated his view in a floor statement in late afternoon, saying that he knew full well the context of Mr. Bush's statement.
"What context is there that legitimizes an accusation like that?" Mr. Daschle asked. "This is politicization pure and simple." 
The Senate Republican leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, dismissed Mr. Daschle's speech as shrill and "over the top." Mr. Lott said he was "deeply saddened by the tenor and the tone" of Mr. Daschle's remarks and asked: 
"Who is the enemy here? The president of the United States or Saddam Hussein? I think it's time we get a grip on things. We've got a lot of work to do."
The House minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, one of the administration's chief Democratic backers on Iraq, said that domestic security and Iraq were part of the "same clump" of issues and that Mr. Bush's comments represented at least "an implied, if not a direct, effort to pull these issues into the political realm." 
Mr. Gephardt said he had called the White House chief of staff, Andrew Card, to urge that the political temperature be lowered.
Mr. Daschle's spoke as Democratic frustration grew that Iraq policy was now the dominant concern among voters as the Congressional elections approach. For weeks, many Democrats have sought to balance support for Mr. Bush on Iraq and domestic security while shifting the focus of the midterm elections to the bread-and-butter issues of the economy, health care and Social Security. 
Mr. Daschle has been seen by some in his caucus as being too cooperative with the White House on Iraq. Former Vice President Al Gore's speech on Monday questioning Mr. Bush's course raised the pressure, members said. But until today, Democrats have been hard-pressed to change the subject without looking political and potentially weak on national defense.
For their part, Republicans have been eager to benefit from the high approval ratings that Mr. Bush has held since the Sept. 11 attacks and his campaign against terrorism, as long as they are not seen as exploiting the issue for political gain. 
Dozens of Democratic senators sat rapt as Mr. Daschle tried to use Mr. Bush's own words to argue that Republicans were seeking an advantage over the Iraq issue. In his speech this morning, the typically soft-spoken Mr. Daschle singled out Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii, a highly decorated World War II veteran who lost his right arm in Italy. 
"You tell Senator Inouye he's not interested in the security of the American people," said Mr. Daschle, who has for weeks stepped gingerly around the issue of whether the administration had political motives for emphasizing the need for action against Iraq. "This has got to end." 
In recent days, the president has used several similar formulations to criticize Senate Democrats, in particular, for seeking to deprive him of the flexibility that he says he needs to discipline and promote workers in the proposed department. At a fund-raiser here tonight for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, Mr. Bush backed off from denouncing the entire Senate over the domestic security legislation.
The president said, "Some senators -- not all senators, but some senators -- believe it is best to try to micromanage the process, believe the best way to secure the homeland is to have a thick book of regulations which will hamstring this administration." 
At his press briefing, Mr. Fleischer was repeatedly asked whether Mr. Bush stood by his flat statement that the Senate was "not interested" in the security of the American people and declined to give a direct answer, saying only, "If homeland security does not pass in the Senate, it will be true that the Senate will not have acted to protect the American people's security."
The national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, said tonight in an interview on "The News Hour With Jim Lehrer": "The president said that some senators had had a tendency to put special interests ahead of national security, and he went on to praise Democrats and Republicans who were pulling together on the security issues that face the American people."
Mr. Daschle's aides and other Democratic members said his remarks grew out of anger at Mr. Bush's comments. Other senators suggested that the remarks reflected the political reality that Mr. Bush had left himself open.
"There is a growing feeling in our caucus that instead of just saying yes to whatever the president wants, there should be questions asked," one Democrat said. "I think this does alter the dynamic on passage of any resolution, because it's become clearer that for the White House political considerations were at least part of the timing, and the president's remarks stepped over a line. We have to worry now that we don't overstep it, too."
A CBS News poll released on Tuesday said that four in 10 Americans said Congress had not asked enough questions about Mr. Bush's Iraq policy. Bare majorities said that the United States should follow the recommendations of the United Nations and that Congress should wait to vote until the United Nations had acted.
After his floor speech, Mr. Daschle told reporters that the president's comments and some he attributed to Vice President Dick Cheney at a recent appearance were complicating efforts to reach agreement on a resolution against Iraq and the entire Congressional agenda.
"It just sheds great doubt about what their intentions are," Mr. Daschle said. "It really brings to question their real motivation here. Are they extending these negotiations because they want to move this vote closer to the election?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, speaking yesterday on the Senate floor. "We ought not politicize this war," he said. "We ought not politicize the rhetoric about war and life and death." (Associated Press)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (76%); WORLD WAR II (74%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); TERRORISM (71%) TERRORISM; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (83%) HOMELAND SECURITY DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TRENT LOTT (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) HULSE, CARL; PURDUM, TODD S; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); VIET NAM (71%) UNITED STATES; IRAQ; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



711 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: In Policy Shift, U.S. Will Talk To North Korea 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
President Bush will send a senior American diplomat to North Korea early next month, the White House said today, ending 20 months of internal debate on whether to open talks with a country that Mr. Bush lumped with Iran and Iraq as part of an "axis of evil."
 The announcement, which came only days after a visit to North Korea by Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, was a significant change of strategy for the administration, which had ended similar negotiations pursued with North Korea by President Clinton shortly before he left office. 
 The administration has for months been signaling a readiness to reopen talks at a senior level; the official traveling to the North will be James A. Kelly, an assistant secretary of state with long experience in Asia. But the trip was delayed after a North Korean incursion into South Korean waters in June. 
Administration officials say they intend to have a wide-ranging discussion with North Korea that will cover its missile production and exports, its huge array of conventional weapons within reach of South Korea and its history of repression. There will undoubtedly be revived talk about its nuclear program, which has been frozen since 1994 under an agreement with the United States. 
The timing of the White House announcement was significant, because the stance on North Korea contrasts so sharply with Mr. Bush's approach to Iraq. Administration officials have gone to some lengths in recent weeks to explain why they think diplomacy can work with Kim Jong Il of North Korea but not with Saddam Hussein. Like Iraq, North Korea has an extensive nuclear program, chemical weapons, links to terrorism and a history of shell games with nuclear inspectors.
Moreover, the Central Intelligence Agency has estimated that North Korea has produced enough fissile material to produce at least two nuclear weapons; so far the agency has concluded that Iraq does not have the material to produce a nuclear device but could obtain it in coming years.
The White House made the announcement after Mr. Bush talked by telephone to President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea, who had urged the United States to make such a move more than a year ago.
Mr. Bush rebuffed President Kim at the time, saying he did not trust the North Korean leader. The rebuff was an early victory for hawks in the administration, who argued that North Korea would never fulfill its commitments. It was also an early defeat for Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who argued that there was little risk in picking up where Mr. Clinton had left off.
Now, 20 months into his presidency, Mr. Bush appears to be doing exactly that, although the White House insists that the talks will be on a much wider range of issues than Mr. Clinton was attempting.
"The two leaders agreed that real progress with the North depends on full resolution of the security issues on the Korean Peninsula," Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, told reporters today. The State Department said lower-level meetings with North Korean officials at the United Nations this week had paved the way for the trip.
A meeting at this moment may well serve the needs of both Mr. Bush and the reclusive North Korean leader -- who, eight years after the death of his father, is suddenly trying to take the country in new directions.
Mr. Bush can use the Korea diplomacy, even if it fails, as evidence of willingness to negotiate with governments he detests -- excepting Iraq. "We are determined," one senior administration official said, "to make it clear we don't think one size fits all. We're not looking for confrontation."
Kim Jong Il, Korea experts note, sees the United States as the key to his hopes for economic reform, which are pinned on a new capitalist trade and investment zone he says he wants to create. South Korea, Japan, Russia and China would be the main trading partners and investors in this zone -- planned for northwestern North Korea. But the success of any such venture ultimately rests on a gradual improvement in relations with the United States.
Mr. Kim stepped in that direction last week by telling Mr. Koizumi that he was extending the moratorium on missile testing, and by apologizing for the North Korean intelligence services' abduction of Japanese citizens decades ago.
"This is a start," said Leonard S. Spector, director of the Washington office of the Center for Nonproliferation Studies of the Monterey Institute of International Studies and a longtime observer of North Korea. "But the reality is that we lost a year and a half when there might have been progress."
Secretary Powell had sought that progress from the start, after the departing Clinton administration briefed him and other Bush administration officials on the talks concerning a comprehensive missile deal. Kim Jong Il had said that North Korea would freeze development, production, deployment and testing of missiles that could fly more than 300 miles in return for the free launching of several civilian satellites every year. He had also agreed to halt missile and missile-related exports -- in particular to Iran, a major customer -- in exchange for some kind of compensation, which was never fully negotiated.
But several issues remained to be resolved, including North Korea's refusal to eliminate its existing missile forces, and how to establish a system for independent verification.
"I don't think the Clinton team was as close to a deal as they might lead you to think," one of Mr. Bush's senior national security advisers said last month. "We have a lot of work to do to expand the agenda -- and that means talking about all their conventional weapons within reach of Seoul."
Any negotiations are bound to be long and difficult. It is far from clear that the administration is willing to compensate North Korea for giving up missile exports. Nor is it clear that the North would be willing to pull back from the demilitarized zone; with its economy in a shambles, the North's ability to wipe out Seoul with a devastating attack is about the only card it still has to play.
Mr. Fleischer suggested today that North Korea could expect some discussion of the need to change its way of governance -- not a subject its leaders have entertained so far.
"Their current system is a failure, and it has failed its own people more than anybody else," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); ARMS TRADE (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (67%); TERRORISM (63%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (63%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (52%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; ARMS SALES ABROAD; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); KIM JONG IL (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KELLY, JAMES A (ASST SEC); KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL; KIM JONG IL; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; IRAQ; IRAN

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002 



712 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS: LIVING HERE; 
Town Houses: The Connected Life, With Room for Independence

BYLINE:  Interview by Chris Powell 

 BODY:
WHO -- Kennedy Lemke, 40, a computer network administrator.
WHAT -- A three-bedroom town house.
WHERE -- Plainsboro Township, N.J.
 I grew up in Minnesota and I moved here in 1987 to take a job with Princeton University. I lived in apartments throughout the area. I lived in Plainsboro, then moved to West Windsor, then came back to Plainsboro in 1994 when I bought my current town house. I liked living in town. 
 It turned out to be a good time to look for houses. It was a buyers' market and New Jersey had a first-time home buyers' program, so I was able to get a good interest rate. I had considered a single-family home, but I knew a yard would be a lot of work -- and I don't enjoy a lot of work. I also knew a condo would be too much like apartment living. A town house was perfect -- residents pay a monthly fee that takes care of exterior work and landscaping.
My house is about 2,000 square feet and has three bedrooms, two and a half bathrooms and an unfinished basement. I like that my laundry room is on the second floor and not in the basement. This saves me from having to walk up and down two stories to do laundry. Another thing I'm happy about is the unit's soundproofing. My neighbors might be noisy, but we never hear each other.
I'm not too picky about what the house looks like. My family has given me knickknacks, but I'm a bachelor, so it's still a bachelor's town house. I bought it new, so I can get away without doing too much since it's still in good condition. I'm a visible name in the town because I run www.Plainsboro.com, which I opened in 1995 because I wanted to do something that was special for the town. It's a nice community to walk in during the evenings. Interview by Chris Powell

ON THE MARKET

WHERE -- New Orleans
WHAT -- 2-bedroom town house apartment
HOW MUCH -- $850,000
This 100-year-old single-story apartment, overlooking a courtyard, is on the top floor of a four-story town house. The 2,600-square-foot home has two full and two half bathrooms, a kitchen, a living room and den, hardwood floors and walk-in closets. An elevator serves as the front door. The property is currently owned by Ricky Williams of the Miami Dolphins and is on a private street that does not allow cars, in the heart of the French Quarter. Broker: Bruce Balfour, Re/Max New Orleans Properties, (504) 866-7733; www.gnorealestate.com.

WHERE -- Boston
WHAT -- 2-bedroom town house
HOW MUCH -- $709,000
Built in 1900, this 1,435-square-foot town house has two bathrooms, two walk-in closets in the master bedroom, a fireplace, a dining room, a living room with a bow window and window seat, a den, a deck, a spiral staircase that connects the home's two levels, a renovated kitchen, high ceilings and hardwood floors. The property includes a single parking space behind the building and a common roof deck. Broker: Linda Mastandrea, the Charles Realty, (617) 236-0353; www.realtor.com, M.L.S. No. 30624810.

WHERE -- Philadelphia
WHAT -- 3-bedroom town house
HOW MUCH -- $550,000
This 30-year-old, three-story brick row house covers 2,270 square feet. It has three bathrooms, a finished basement, a family room, an eat-in kitchen, a den, two fireplaces, hardwood floors, a pantry, skylights and a hot tub. It also has central air-conditioning, a laundry room, a one-car garage and a deck, and it is situated in the historic Queen Village section of Philadelphia. Broker: Kathleen Conway, Prudential Fox & Roach Realtors, (215) 627-6005; www.foxroach.com, M.L.S. No. 4101207.

WHERE -- Cumberland, R.I.
WHAT -- 2-bedroom town house
HOW MUCH -- $225,000
This three-story property, with vinyl siding, was built in 1999 and has one and a half bathrooms. At 1,370 square feet, the home includes a laundry room, a marble fireplace, ceramic floor tile, wall-to-wall carpeting, a deck and a porch. It also has central air-conditioning, ceiling fans, a one-car attached garage and two assigned parking spaces. Cumberland is about 15 miles northeast of Providence. Broker: Gregory Richard, Kirkbrae Realty Inc., (401) 333-1800; wwww.realtor.com; M.L.S. No. 209197.

WHERE -- Columbia, S.C.
WHAT -- 2-bedroom town house
HOW MUCH -- $144,575
This 1,550-square-foot two-story brick home, about 10 minutes from downtown Columbia, originally had three bedrooms, but the owner removed one wall to create a large master bedroom. It has two and a half bathrooms, a dining room, a living room, a fireplace, an attic, a wet bar, ceiling fans, walk-in closets, a spa-style whirlpool in the master bathroom, a patio, a laundry area, tile flooring and a full kitchen. Broker: Laura Nichols, Landmark Resources, (888) 799-0859, www.realtor.com; M.L.S. No. 84290.

WHERE -- Salt Lake City
WHAT -- 2-bedroom town house
HOW MUCH -- $182,500
This two-story 1,797-square-foot property, built in 1945, has three bathrooms, a formal dining room, a foyer, a finished basement with workbench, walk-in closets in the master bedroom, a one-car unattached garage, a patio, a porch, hardwood floors, ceiling fans, a laundry chute, an asphalt shingle Tudor-style roof and a renovated kitchen. The home is near the city's downtown shopping district. Broker: Linda L. Coleman, Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage, (801) 488-5353; www.utahhomes.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) HOUSING; LIFE STYLES 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: LEMKE, KENNEDY; POWELL, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%) PLAINSBORO (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



713 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: FAMILY FARE 

BYLINE:  By Laurel Graeber

 BODY:
A Genius That Soared
 Nursery rhymes aren't the only works in which children can expect to encounter a cow jumping over the moon or an owl and a pussycat harmonizing. The same kinds of flights of fancy can be found in the art of Marc Chagall (1887-1985). (And he did love to make creatures fly.) 
 Many little ones, however, wouldn't discover Chagall's whimsical imagination until a more sober age if it weren't for "Chagall for Children," a wonderful new exhibition at the Children's Museum of Manhattan. Developed by the Kohl Children's Museum in Wilmette, Ill., it allows them not only to see the world as Chagall portrayed it but also to create Chagallian art of their own. 
Granted, the show's 20 or so pieces are only lithographs and artful reproductions of Chagalls. The reason, though, seems to be more than economics. Major museums would probably object strenuously to lending masterpieces if they knew that small fingers were going to stroke them, place cutouts over them and create rubbings from them -- all activities encouraged by the exhibition.
"The design is very clever," said Andrew S. Ackerman, the museum's executive director. "It creates a lot of private spaces to look at art." The works are hung at a child's-eye level, and short walls form cubicles for exploring individual pieces.
After looking at the fanciful animals in "Poultry Yard," for instance, children can add imaginary creatures to a copy of the painting, building them from colorful body parts equipped with Velcro strips. Beside "Paris Through the Window," they can create a new scene by reassembling the painting's elements against an empty background.
Several displays take art appreciation beyond the visual. In addition to arranging a bouquet of artificial blossoms next to "Flowers," children can press buttons to smell each of the painting's blooms. Using buttons underneath "Concert," they can play a composition by Steve Rashid, choosing the instrumentation. They are even invited to create a theater piece -- and watch themselves in it on a video monitor -- with costumes inspired by Chagall's circus art.
At another station, children can replace the figures in "The Flying Sleigh" with alternatives by touching areas of the painting on a video screen. Or they can use a digital camera and software to create an echo of "The Green Violinist": a green (or any color) self-portrait.
It's easy to picture the artist himself delighting in this show. Near the end of his long life he said, "I am a child who is getting on." Getting on, yes, but he never forgot how to play.
"Chagall for Children," through May at the Children's Museum of Manhattan, the Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, (212) 721-1223. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free with admission: $6; ages 65+, $3.

What's a Mammal?
Children may be surprised to learn that they have something important in common with otters, deer and African hedgehogs. And despite what their parents think, it isn't cuteness.
Like these creatures, they and their adult relatives are mammals, a classification that will be explored on Sunday in "Just Fur Fun," a family program at the Staten Island Zoo.
Fur is mentioned because all mammals, even aquatic ones, have hair at some point in their lives. Children will investigate its uses by touching patches of fur and trying to guess which mammals they're from.
"If you touch the otter's fur, it feels greasy because water has to run off it," said Regina Pistilli, a zoo spokeswoman. "If you touch the chinchilla's, which is for warmth, you'll see it's soft and lush."
Children can also touch live animals at the event. Zoo docents will offer "close encounters" with creatures like chinchillas, rabbits and hedgehogs. "And we might have a snake, too, to show why it isn't a mammal," Ms. Pistilli said.
The program will also offer something to take home, perhaps an animal mask. (No leaving with real mammals except, of course, the ones you came with.)
"Just Fur Fun," Sunday from 1 to 3 p.m. at the Staten Island Zoo, 614 Broadway, off Forest Avenue, West Brighton, (718) 442-3101. Free with admission: $5; ages 60+, $4; 3 to 14, $3; under 3, free.

Harvesting Joy
A canoe isn't the usual means of navigating around New York City. But if traffic or the subways ever become really hopeless, and you would like to build one, you can learn how on Sunday in Van Cortlandt Park.
This demonstration by Mixashawn Rozie, who is of Mohegan descent, is one of the attractions at the park's Native Harvest Festival. Like the original New Yorkers, visitors to the event can celebrate fall with music, dance, storytelling, food and crafts.
Bobby Gonzalez, a Taino storyteller, will be the M.C. The Drum Circle Singers, who represent a range of American Indian cultures, are to perform, and the Urban Park Rangers will lead workshops in making pouches and knotweed pipes (to play, not smoke). "Knotweed is a weed you find commonly here," explained Mark McKeller, a park spokesman.
Horses, integral to Indian life and park management, will visit in the Horse of Course program of the Parks Enforcement Patrol Mounted Unit. "It gives you a basic understanding of the life of a horse," Mr. McKeller said. On Sunday, that includes being petted by children.
Native Harvest Festival, Sunday from noon to 4 p.m. on the grounds of the Van Cortlandt House Museum, Van Cortlandt Park, Broadway and West 246th Street, the Bronx. Free. Information: (718) 430-1890.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Life imitating art: A visitor arranging flowers a la Chagall. (Children's Museum of Manhattan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); THEATER (70%); POULTRY (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



714 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE ART 

BYLINE:  By Carol Vogel

 BODY:
Hand of Fate At Sotheby's
 With less and less top-quality American art coming on the market these days, auction houses have to rely more than ever on acts of fate, like death and divorce, to obtain the best property for sale. So the news that Sotheby's will auction two important American paintings and a group of American works on paper from the estate of Arthur G. Altschul, the Manhattan investment banker and philanthropist who died in March, is expected to generate a good deal of interest among serious collectors. 
 At his death, Altschul was on the chairman's council of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. He was also a former vice chairman of the Yale University Art Gallery's governing board, a trustee of the Whitney Museum of American Art and a member of the trustees' council of the National Gallery of Art. 
For more than 40 years he collected art, particularly Neo-Impressionist paintings, as well as works by the French decorative artists who called themselves the Nabis and by the Ashcan School. In 1965 the Yale gallery had a major exhibition of his collection. Over the years he had donated works to the Yale gallery and the Metropolitan Museum. He had also sold several major paintings and watercolors in recent years by artists like Maurice Prendergast, William Merritt Chase and Childe Hassam.
Sotheby's is to auction the remains of his collection as the centerpiece of its American paintings sale on Dec. 4. The Altschul property is expected to total $8 million to $10 million.
Unlike most of his peers who were buying works of European masters in the 1950's and '60's, Altschul was one of the pioneer collectors of American art, particularly the Ashcan School, the group of artists who embraced American urban themes in the decade before World War I.
"He was one of the legendary collectors in the field," said Dara Mitchell, a Sotheby's director of American paintings. "He refocused energy and attention on American art at a time when it was not nearly as fashionable as French Impressionism."
Both paintings for sale are considered particularly rare and have been featured in exhibitions around the country. Everett Shinn's "Footlight Flirtation" (1912) features a vaudeville singer in a flouncy dress. Shinn, a leading figure of the Ashcan School, incorporated the viewer into the audience, drawing his inspiration from Degas. Sotheby's estimates the painting will sell for $2.5 million to $3.5 million. Also up for sale is John Sloan's "Gray and Brass" (1907), which shows four portly, overdressed people riding by a park in a chauffeur-driven car, oblivious to the rows of poor and unemployed men on the nearby park benches. Sotheby's estimates it may bring $2.5 million to $3.5 million.
The works on paper include many rare drawings and watercolors by William J. Glackens, Winslow Homer, Prendergast and Shinn.
As it has for most important collections, Sotheby's offered the Altschul heirs a guarantee, an undisclosed sum regardless of a sale's outcome, to beat out the competition. While the auction house won't say how much the guarantee is, experts believe it is around $8 million.

A Long Celebration
Birthdays are always a good excuse to ask for presents, even when a museum is the one celebrating. So it makes sense that the Philadelphia Museum of Art is toasting its donors with "Gifts in Honor of the 125th Anniversary of the Philadelphia Museum of Art," an exhibition that opens Sunday and runs through Dec. 8.
This drive for gift-giving began in 1996 when Harvey S. Shipley Miller, a trustee, formed and led a committee for that purpose. The range of art and objects that have been donated is vast, spanning centuries, cultures and continents. And the presents keep coming.
Recently the museum was given an 1896 Eakins portrait of Lucy Lewis and its first painting by Philip Guston. Another first is a painting by Jacob Lawrence. The museum was also given Israhel van Meckenem's "Self-Portrait With his Wife, Ida" (circa 1490), believed to be the first self-portrait ever made by a printmaker.
It looks as if the museum plans to celebrate as long as it can.
"We hope the show will inspire other gifts," said Anne d'Harnoncourt, its director and chief executive. "These are birthday gifts to grow on."

The Tate In Trouble
American museums aren't the only ones with serious financial concerns. This week the Tate announced that without more help from the British government's Department for Culture, Media and Sport, it will have to make cuts in the programming at both Tate Britain and the Tate Modern to offset a $2.3 million deficit. Sir Nicholas Serota, the director of the Tate, also said the acquisitions fund in 1982 was $3.4 million just for the Tate Britain. Twenty years later, it has been reduced to $3.1 million to cover both museums. This means the Tate cannot buy important works for its permanent collection.
The acute shortage of money means that the Tate recently missed out on several important paintings, Sir Nicholas said. It tried to buy "Omai," a portrait by Sir Joshua Reynolds, which was being sold by Simon Howard from the collection at Castle Howard in Yorkshire. He turned down the Tate's offer of $8.5 million; the painting sold at Sotheby's in London last year for $16 million. The Tate also missed out on an important Braque, "Atelier V," when its Swiss owner sold it to the Museum of Modern Art for $6 million. The painting had been on the Tate's walls on loan for five years.

A New Director
After a five-month search, the Museo del Barrio has appointed Julian Zugazagoitia its director. Mr. Zugazagoitia has been in the director's office of the Guggenheim Museum since 1999. At the Guggenheim he was an organizer and a curator of "Brazil: Body and Soul" and was the principal creator of all related programming for the exhibition. He has also worked at the Getty Conservation Institute in Los Angeles and was director of visual arts for the Spoleto Festival in Italy.
Mr. Zugazagoitia succeeds Susana Torruella Leval, who retired in June.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sotheby's will auction "Gray and Brass" (1907) by John Sloan in New York in December. (Sotheby's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); PAINTING (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); ART COLLECTING (89%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); MAJOR GIFTS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); WORLD WAR I (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (83%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (56%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



715 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Red Tape Frustrates Russia's Entrepreneurs 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: KRASNOYARSK, Russia 

 BODY:
In this get-rich-quick Siberian city of hulking metal-refining plants and aluminum-baron fortunes, Larisa V. Khvoina is doing something unusual: running a small business.
 Her factory is small -- six rented rooms in a warehouse on the northwest edge of town. Her payroll is small -- five workers besides herself. And her product is small -- croutons, 3,000 packages of them a day. 
 Beer drinkers in western Russia snack on salted croutons the way Americans munch pretzels, but they were all but unknown here in Siberia before Ms. Khvoina, 39, a former accountant, started making them commercially three years ago. She built the market, single-handedly at first, by peddling her croutons store to store.
They caught on, and she started to find success. She got a loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, expanded production and hired some help. She said she even had a visit from a couple of young men from an organized crime group, whom she sent packing.
But now, Ms. Khvoina says she is struggling to survive, hobbled not by mobsters but by government red tape and regulations. On paper, the regulations draw no distinction between tiny companies and huge ones, but in practice, the huge ones have the resources and connections to get around inconvenient rules or shrug off the cost of complying with them. Ms. Khvoina can do neither.
Inspections provide an example of the frustrations. Crouton samples have to be submitted to health officials monthly, she said. Every third month, there is an extra round of tests for lead, arsenic, mercury and cadmium. Another bunch of inspectors come around every month to check the oven temperature and the humidity, light and noise in the workplace.
All these inspections, Ms. Khvoina said, cost her money she cannot spare.
"It's best not to get mad or argue," said Ms. Khvoina, whose tiny plant shares a building with makers of halvah, sweet peanuts and corn puffs. "If you do, they will find other things wrong, and usually they will be justified."
For example, by law she is required to have two elevators, one for carrying bread and the other for the croutons. She has just one, but the inspectors have so far ignored that. 
Anyway, they are only doing their jobs, Ms. Khvoina said of the inspectors, and she does not blame them for the rules they enforce. "People are not guilty," she said. "It's the government's fault."
In many other countries, small businesses are a principal engine of economic growth. But they have barely emerged in Russia, not least because of the onerous, bewildering regulations on the books and the bribe-grasping misbehavior of some of the bureaucrats who oversee them. Both factors discourage honest entrepreneurs.
Russia's economy has been growing for four years, but economists say the growth is not broadly spread throughout the economy; it is accounted for mainly by the very largest companies. In the United States, small businesses produce 60 percent of total economic output, according to the World Bank; in Russia, the figure is only 20 percent.
A study of 2,000 small businesses across Russia by the Center for Economic and Financial Research found recently that companies here tend to stop growing once they reach six or seven employees in size.
Why? "Bureaucrats are like predators," said Christof Ruehl, chief economist for the World Bank in Moscow. Any bigger than that, he said, and "you can't hide anymore."
Ms. Khvoina, who studied accounting in St. Petersburg, said one common tactic was to subdivide a growing business into several smaller ones at different addresses, in hopes of escaping official notice -- both from inspectors and from tax authorities.
"After several years and more employees, the tax inspector starts to audit you," said Ms. Khvoina, sitting at a bare table surrounded by boxes of packaged croutons. "People start to hide and redo things. Maybe it's better to have three companies of 10 people instead of one company of 30."
Like any novice entrepreneur, of course, Ms. Khvoina has made her own missteps as well, including a few in the last year that have hurt her business badly.
When demand started to take off, she threw her efforts into speeding up production instead of focusing on marketing. That left her vulnerable to new competition, which appeared in the form of a well-known 1,000-employee snack food company in Novosibirsk that grabbed a chunk of her market with a new crouton product.
"I miscalculated the need to advertise," she said ruefully.
Russian officials, still steeped in the Soviet obsession with gargantuan scale, ignored small business as a force for growth through the 1990's. More recently, President Vladimir V. Putin has told his government that better conditions for small business are a high economic priority. Tax laws are being rewritten and some registration and certification rules simplified or scrapped.
Here in Krasnoyarsk, though, businesspeople say they have yet to feel the effects of such changes. Yekaterina Galchenko, 29, who owns an auto supply store with her husband, Igor Tereshenko, said that in her experience, most changes brought only higher taxes and more hours of puzzling over new rules.
"They talk about supporting small business, but it's all very abstract," Ms. Galchenko said. "I haven't seen any pluses from it."
Little more than a decade removed from the days when Russians habitually looked to the state to do everything and decide everything, Ms. Galchenko and her husband say now that they want nothing more from their government than to be left alone.
"We've been working for five years, and we aren't driving around in a Jeep or living in a big house," Mr. Tereshenko said, referring to the status symbols that Russia's newly rich tend to flaunt.
"But we are supporting ourselves and our parents," Ms. Galchenko added, seated on a small sofa in a crowded back room of the store. "I think we are a success."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larisa V. Khvoina owns a small operation that makes croutons, a popular Russian snack food, in the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk. (Alexander Paniotov for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (84%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); SNACK FOODS (75%); DEREGULATION (74%); LEAD (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (66%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); TRENDS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (56%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENTREPRENEURSHIP; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SMALL BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (56%) CENTER FOR ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL RESEARCH 

PERSON: TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



716 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales at a High; Big-Ticket Orders Fall Slightly 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Orders to factories for big-ticket goods fell much less than expected in August, while new-home sales hit a monthly high, reports released today by the Commerce Department showed.
 Orders for durable goods -- items expected to last at least three years -- fell 0.6 percent, to $178.4 billion. The decline came after a revised 8.6 percent increase the previous month and reflected slackened demand for cars, communications equipment and machinery. Analysts had expected a 3 percent drop in August. 
 Sales of new homes climbed to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 996,000 in August, a record, representing a 1.9 percent increase from July.
New-home sales in August were stronger than analysts had predicted. Their forecast was for a drop of 3.6 percent.
A third report released by the Labor Department showed that new claims for unemployment benefits dropped 24,000, to 406,000, an encouraging sign for workers dealing with the lackluster job market.
Housing is one of the few bright spots in the economy. Low mortgage rates are enticing buyers. And rising home values, especially given the slumping stock market, make owning a house a good investment.
In August, the median price of a new home rose 1.6 percent from the previous month to $175,300.
By region, new-home sales in the West rose 7.4 percent in August, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 276,000. In the South, sales went up 1.3 percent, to a rate of 476,000. But in the Northeast, sales dropped 9.5 percent, to a rate of 57,000. And in the Midwest, sales were flat at a rate of 187,000.
In the manufacturing report, orders for automobiles fell 3.8 percent in August after a sizable 8.4 percent rise in July. Although free financing deals have lifted car sales, economists say production levels were too brisk to be maintained. 
Orders for communications equipment dropped 4 percent in August, after a big 9.2 percent advance. Orders for computers dipped 1.4 percent, after a 13.2 percent gain.
For machinery, orders fell 2.5 percent in August, after a strong 10.4 percent increase.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Durable Goods Orders"Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Monthly Change Aug.: -0.6%July: +8.6June: -4.5 Graph tracks changes from March 2001 to August 2002. (Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "New-Home Sales"Annual rate in thousands of new private homes sold during month, seasonally adjusted. Monthly Change Aug.: +1.9%July: +1.9June: -1.5 Graph tracks change from March 2001 to August 2002. (Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Prices of New Homes"Median price for new homes in thousands of dollars. Monthly Change Aug.: +1.6%July: -7.8June: +3.3 Graph tracks change from March 2001 to August 2002. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); FACTORY ORDERS (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); HOUSING; SALES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



717 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: Sluggish U.S. Economy a Global Concern 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25 

 BODY:
Despite nearly daily news of economic strife in Brazil and Argentina, a growing number of economists and governments around the world worry that the biggest risks to the global economy are emanating not from Latin America or Asia but from the United States and Europe. 
 Bankers and finance ministers will descend on Washington this weekend for the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, anxious about economic imbalances in the United States, the possibility of war in Iraq and foot-dragging on free-trade by rich countries. 
 In its newest assessment of world economic prospects, the I.M.F. joined other forecasters on Wednesday in reducing its expectations for growth in the United States and noted that neither Europe nor Japan showed signs of taking up the slack. 
The fund also stepped up its criticism of the United States for running up huge trade imbalances, calling them "unsustainable" and a possible source of instability if they lead to a sudden a steep drop in the dollar. 
The fear is that global financial markets could impose a sharp and unpleasant correction, possibly in the form of a collapse in the dollar. A steep decline in the dollar would wreak havoc on poorer nations, whose exports to the United States would become too expensive. 
The I.M.F. and the World Bank are also taking aim at trade barriers, rebuking both Europe and the United States in particular for their high levels of farm subsidies and import quotas. Both institutions argue that trade barriers in the world's wealthy countries, including the new American farm bill, which authorizes more than $100 billion in farm subsidies in the next eight years, present major obstacles for poor countries. 
Yet with as many as 20,000 anti-globalization protesters hoping to harangue and perhaps even disrupt the meetings, the fund and the World Bank are themselves under fire from many directions at once. 
The protesters, backed by an increasingly influential array of respected economists, complain that the two institutions are controlled by the United States and have undermined poor countries by insisting on free-market policies that primarily benefit large corporations. 
The institutions themselves struggle to get the ear of the Bush administration, which despite promises to double aid to poor countries remains skeptical about the usefulness of the I.M.F. and the World Bank and is flatly uninterested in some of their criticisms. 
The fund is complaining that the United States' huge balance-of-payments deficit -- the gap between the amount of money that flows into the country and the amount that flows out -- cannot be sustained and could lead to global disruptions. 
Between the United States' trade deficit and the huge foreign investment it has attracted for the last several years, the United States needs inflow of about $4 billion a day to pay for all its spending. 
"Instability in the lead country can have an adverse impact on the international financial system," the fund noted in its latest economic forecast. It called the United States' huge payments imbalances a "significant risk" and noted that much of it stemmed from "financial excesses" of the technology boom. 
If American stock markets remain in their current slump, or drop even further, the fund warned that global economic prospects would become even shakier. 
The meetings here this weekend are likely to be an echo chamber for anxieties in rich and poor countries alike. On Friday, the United States will be the host for a meeting of finance ministers from the Group of Seven top industrialized countries, while a loose coalition that includes militant opponents of capitalism has vowed to shut down Washington with protests. 
A much broader array of groups will demonstrate on Saturday over issues ranging from debt relief for poor countries to sweatshops in Asia and environmental damage in the Amazon rain forest. 
Inside the meetings, finance officials from around the world will wrestle with other issues: anxiety about whether Brazil will remain solvent even after a $30 billion rescue package from the I.M.F. in August, or whether Argentina, which has defaulted on more than $140 billion in loans, will sink even further. 
There is widespread unhappiness with the World Bank's six-year-old effort simply to write off debt of the most impoverished countries. Only six of more than 30 countries have actually had debt forgiven, and several of those already need additional debt relief because their economies have been ravaged by plunging prices for commodities like coffee and cotton. 
The United States is also edging closer to an agreement with the fund on a system that would effectively allow countries to enter bankruptcy proceedings. The proposals under consideration would allow countries to renegotiate their debts by getting agreement on a plan from a majority of their creditors. 
Looming over everything else, however, will be the anxiety over the American economy -- the only obvious engine of world growth. Without American demand for foreign products, growth stagnates from Europe to Southeast Asia. 
"The recovery continues to depend heavily on the outlook for the United States," the fund said today, adding that the economic recovery in Europe is "not yet self-sustaining" and that Japan remains stagnant. 
Nor are there many signs that European countries are willing to make their stringent job-protection laws more flexible, a move that economists have been urging for more than a decade. 
The head of Germany's Bundesbank acknowledged this week that growth in Germany, the world's third-largest economy, will be only about 0.6 percent this year. 
Japan, meanwhile, remains paralyzed on economic reform and its banking system hobbled by huge portfolios of bad loans. Last week, Japan's central bank took the extraordinary step of buying up depressed stocks from many of its biggest and most troubled banks. 
"Japan is the biggest risk of all to the world economy," said C. Fred Bergsten, president of the Institute for International Economics, a policy research organization in Washington. "I think we're seeing signs of a panic there." 
The question is whether the United States will continue to pull the world along, given investors' shaken confidence, high levels of corporate and individual debt, and a currency that many believe has nowhere to go but down. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (69%); IMPORT CONTROLS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



718 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Blue Chips Up on Economic News, but Tech Shares Dip

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Strong economic data lifted blue chips yesterday as investors hoped a better outlook for corporate profits would follow, but technology stocks lagged after a snapback.
 The data took the edge off fears about the pace of the recovery. Orders for durable goods dipped in August, but the drop was smaller than expected. New jobless claims fell for the second week, and sales of new homes rose to a record level in August. 
 "For the first time in what seems like months, we've gotten some positive economic data," said Dan McMahon, head of block trading for CIBC World Markets. "It's giving people more confidence we have reached bottom in the economy and we might start to turn around."
General Motors jumped almost 5 percent, helping underpin the Dow Jones industrial average after the chief executive of G.M. Europe, Michael J. Burns, said the unit was on track to break even in 2003. General Motors gained $1.95, to $41.52.
The Dow rose 155.30 points, or 1.98 percent, to 7,997.12. The Dow rose for a second day after hitting a four-year low on Tuesday. The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 15.29 points, or 1.82 percent, at 854.95.
The Nasdaq composite index eased 0.68 point, or 0.06 percent, at 1,221.61, after dropping to a six-year low earlier in the week. It surged 3.4 percent on Wednesday.
Although the Nasdaq closed slightly lower, more stocks rose than fell on the market, with about six gainers for every five decliners. 
Three stocks rose for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange.
Trading volume was active, with 1.66 billion shares traded on Nasdaq and 1.61 billion shares changing hands on the Big Board.
Investors welcomed the two-day broad market rally after fears over a possible United States war with Iraq and the fragile economic recovery had driven the market lower for four consecutive weeks.
Yet, apprehension about another armed conflict with Iraq persists.
"I don't think a war, especially if it does go on longer than people think, will do anything positive for consumer confidence," said Richard Bernstein, Merrill Lynch chief market strategist, speaking at a stock market roundtable yesterday.
The Dow average has fallen 7.7 percent in September, on track for its worst monthly performance since September 2001. The average has fallen for six consecutive months.
One bright spot in technology yesterday was Nokia, the mobile phone maker, which jumped 4.2 percent after an executive said on Wednesday that the company expected industrywide mobile phone shipments to grow 10 percent to 15 percent in 2003 and the years after. Nokia gained 56 cents, to $13.81. 
Some computer chip stocks, however, were pummeled after Salomon Smith Barney cut earnings estimates on several makers of communications chips, including Broadcom, PMC-Sierra and Applied Micro Circuits. Broadcom slumped $2.04, to $11.86; PMC-Sierra dropped 3 cents, to $4.14; and Applied Micro fell 32 cents, to $3.17.
Cendant sank 50 cents, or 4.4 percent, to $10.75, after the company said it would write down the value of its mortgage servicing assets because of a refinancing surge. --------------------

Treasury Prices Fall
(By Bloomberg News)
The benchmark 10-year Treasuries fell yesterday as stronger-than-forecast government reports on durable goods, jobless claims and new-home sales suggested that the economy was not slowing as much as previously thought.
The 10-year note dropped 6/32, to a price of 104 29/32. It was the second drop in two days, the first two-day dip in almost three weeks, as advancing stocks curbed the appeal of government debt. The note has rallied in 10 of the last 11 weeks, driving its yield to a 44-year low on Wednesday. Yesterday, the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 3.77 percent from 3.76 percent. The 30-year bond also fell, losing 6/32, to 110 1/32. Its yield rose to 4.73 percent from 4.72 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Tax-Exempt Yields"Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. Graph tracks yields for revenue and general obligation bonds from May to September. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (83%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); NEW HOME SALES (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (63%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); BROADCOM CORP (50%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL J BURNS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



719 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: RECONSTRUCTION; 
Powell Urges Nations to Fulfill Afghan Aid Pledges

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell urged wealthy nations today to fulfill their pledges of aid to Afghanistan, warning that the country could collapse into warlordism and chaos without additional international support. 
 Secretary Powell, in an address at the World Bank, complained that more than a third of the $2 billion pledged to rebuild Afghanistan this year had not been delivered. He also noted that Afghanistan's government was facing a $166 million budget deficit that must be closed to prevent government services from being shut off. 
 "With our sustained assistance, they will succeed," Secretary Powell said, addressing a meeting of the Afghanistan Reconstruction Steering Group, whose members include the European Union, Japan and Saudi Arabia. "Without it, they will surely fail. We have seen what an Afghanistan abandoned to chaos can do to international peace and security."
His concerns were echoed by Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, who told the group that "teachers, police, minesweepers and construction workers" might not get paid if donors did not help close Afghanistan's budget deficit.
"The victory of law and stability depends on consistent international support," Mr. O'Neill said. 
Their remarks were among the most forceful yet by American officials seeking to cajole European, Asian and Persian Gulf countries to follow through on pledges of aid, totaling $4.5 billion over five years, made at a conference in Tokyo in January. About $2 billion of that total was supposed to be contributed this year.
President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan has also raised repeated concerns about the slow arrival of international aid, contending as well that too much of that assistance is being funneled into relief and not enough into reconstruction projects, like repairing his country's devastated road system. 
Partly in response to those complaints, the United States, Saudi Arabia and Japan pledged $180 million two weeks ago to rebuild the highway linking Kabul, Kandahar and Herat.
Secretary Powell also said today that $33 million from a new Afghan aid bill would be earmarked for reducing Kabul's deficit. 
He declined to identify the countries that have been slow to fulfill their pledges, as did the Afghan finance minister, Ashraf Ghani, during a news conference. But United Nations officials have said Japan and Saudi Arabia have fallen behind in aid payments. 
Mr. Ghani offered a lower estimate than Secretary Powell of the aid that has reached Afghanistan, saying only half, or less than $1 billion, has been disbursed. He contended that Kabul had received only $90 million of the aid, with the vast majority going to United Nations agencies in Afghanistan. 
"Afghanistan is probably the only Muslim country where the absolute majority of the people want a partnership and insist upon a partnership with the West and Japan," Mr. Ghani said. "We are also clear that the kind of Afghanistan that we envisage is an Afghanistan that would be a source of regional stability and no threat to global peace."
Secretary Powell suggested that $4.5 billion over five years might not be enough to rebuild Afghanistan's economy and infrastructure. 
"We've raised expectations," he said. "We won't be able to meet all those expectations at once. But having raised them, we have an obligation to meet our commitments to provide what we said we would provide." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (63%) FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%) DAO, JAMES; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (78%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) INDIAN OCEAN (55%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (71%) AFGHANISTAN; EUROPE; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



720 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: In Broad Daylight 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
"You are one of only a handful of major players selling wholesale electricity. Surely the thought has to occur to you: what would happen to prices if one of my plants just happened to go off line? And when companies act on that thought . . . well, you get the picture."
 I wrote that in March 2001, when the California electricity crisis was at its height. Even then the experts I talked to -- economists who followed the situation closely, and kept an open mind -- believed that energy companies were deliberately creating shortages. But only in the last few weeks, with a series of damning reports and judgments, has conventional wisdom grudgingly accepted the obvious. 
 And that's the real mystery of the California crisis: how could a $30 billion robbery take place in broad daylight?
True, it was always hard to pin down specific acts of market manipulation. Stanford's Frank Wolak likens energy companies to an employee who keeps calling in sick: the pattern is clear, but unless you catch him faking an ailment, it's hard to prove that he is malingering. 
But the evidence is starting to pile up. First there were those Enron memos. Then the California Public Utilities Commission determined that most of the blackouts that afflicted California between November 2000 and May 2001 took place not because generating capacity was inadequate, but because the major power companies kept much of their capacity off line. Most recently, a judge for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has ruled that El Paso Corporation used its control over a key pipeline to create an artificial natural gas shortage. 
But why did energy companies think they could get away with it? 
One answer might be that the apparent malefactors are very big contributors to the Republican Party. Some analysts have suggested that energy companies felt free to manipulate markets because they believed they had bought protection from federal regulation -- the conspiracy-minded point out that severe power shortages began just after the 2000 election, and ended when Democrats gained control of the Senate. 
Federal regulators certainly seemed determined to see and hear no evil, and above all not to reveal evidence of evil to state officials. A previous FERC ruling on El Paso was, in the view of many observers, a whitewash. In another case, AES/Williams was accused of shutting down generating units, forcing the power system to buy power at vastly higher prices from other units of the same company. In April 2001, FERC and Williams reached a settlement in which the company repaid the extra profits, but paid no penalty -- and FERC sealed the evidence. Last week CBS News reported that "federal regulators have power control room audiotapes that prove traders from Williams Energy called plant operators and told them to turn off the juice. The government sealed the tapes in a secret settlement" -- the same settlement? -- "and still refuses to release them."
If that's true, FERC caught at least one power company red-handed, in the middle of the crisis, at a time when state officials were begging the agency to take action -- and then suppressed the evidence. Yet this story has received little national play. 
For some reason it has never been cool to talk about what was really happening in California. When the crisis was in full swing, most commentators clung to a story line that blamed meddlesome bureaucrats, not profiteering corporations. When the crisis came to an end, it suddenly became old news.
Maybe our national faith in free markets is so strong that people just don't want to talk about a case in which markets went spectacularly bad. But I'm still puzzled by the lack of attention, not just to the disaster, but to hints of a cover-up. After all, this was the most spectacular abuse of market power since the days of the robber barons -- and the feds did nothing to stop it.
And if FERC was strangely ineffective during the California crisis, what can we expect from other agencies? Across the government, from the Interior Department and the Forest Service to the Environmental Protection Agency, former lobbyists for the regulated industries now hold key positions -- and they show little inclination to make trouble for their once and future employers.
So we ignore California's experience at our peril. It's all too likely to be the shape of things to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHORTAGES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: EL PASO CORP (84%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (82%); CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (55%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION (55%) FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (84%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (55%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



721 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Design Teams Are Selected For New Plans For 9/11 Site 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Six teams of architects, artists and designers, including individuals and firms that have created some of the most renowned buildings and public works of the last quarter-century, were chosen yesterday by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation to create new designs for the World Trade Center site. 
 The people selected are representatives of 27 architecture and design firms in the United States and in four foreign countries. Their selection opens a new phase in the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan, one that has been strongly influenced by the public's highly negative reaction to the initial six designs for the trade center site. 
 Among firms and individuals chosen to offer new ideas for the revitalization of downtown are Studio Daniel Libeskind, creators of the Jewish Museum in Berlin; Foster and Partners, an English firm that designed the new Reichstag building in Berlin; Richard Meier, architect of the Getty Center in Los Angeles; Foreign Office Architects, the English firm that designed the Yokohama International Port Terminal; and Frederic Schwartz, designer of the Whitehall Ferry Terminal in Manhattan. 
"It's hard to imagine a greater array of talent in the architecture community being focused on a single problem," said Roland Betts, a director of the development corporation overseeing planning for the trade center site. 
"Without being naive about the complexity -- political and from an engineering and technological standpoint -- of the problem in front of us," Mr. Betts said, "I think all of us are extremely optimistic that the step taken today is going to yield a solution." 
The problem in need of a solution is how to reconcile the requirements of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the trade center site and earns money from private developers' payments for the rights to the office and retail space there, with the public's desire for the accomplishment of an array of goals. 
Among these goals are the creation of a memorial including the footprints of the twin towers, the restoration of a soaring element to the city's skyline, and renovation of an area of downtown that while thriving before Sept. 11, was not the easiest place in which to live or work.
Each team will produce multiple sets of designs for the 16-acre site, incorporating office space, stores, transportation and a memorial. Each will also create designs that keep substantially all the former office and retail space on the site as well as designs that move substantial portions to nearby properties. 
In the next two weeks, the development corporation and the Port Authority will settle on requirements for the architecture teams to use in allocating office space to the site, Mr. Betts said. The requirements will range from the 11 million square feet outlined in the lease held by Larry A. Silverstein, to "a substantially lower amount," Mr. Betts said. 
Other rebuilding officials said the lower end of the range was likely to be set at about two-thirds of the 11 million square feet that existed before Sept. 11. Whatever office space is not included directly on the site, however, is likely to be in blocks surrounding and near the trade center site, the officials said. 
The designs created by the six teams are due by the end of November, and each team will be paid $40,000 for its work. After reviewing the designs, the development corporation and other rebuilding officials will combine elements of those proposals or, in some cases, use an entire design in narrowing the process to three designs by year's end. 
Details of the six teams selected to work on the trade center site designs can be found on the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation's Web site at www.renewnyc.com.
The six teams are:
Studio Daniel Libeskind, Berlin.
Foster and Partners, London. 
A team of four individuals: Richard Meier, Peter Eisenman, Charles Gwathmey and Steven Holl, all of New York. 
United Architects, a team including three firms (Foreign Office Architects of London, Imaginary Forces of New York and Los Angeles, and UN Studio of Amsterdam) and three individuals (Greg Lynn of Los Angeles, Reiser Umemoto of New York and Kevin Kenon of New York). 
A team led by Skidmore, Owings and Merrill of New York, assisted by Tom Leader of Berkeley, Calif., Michael Maltzan of Los Angeles, Neutelings Riedijk of Rotterdam, Field Operations of Philadelphia and New York, SANAA of Tokyo; and four artists, Inigo Manglano-Ovalle, Rita McBride, Jessica Stockholder and Elyn Zimmerman. 
Think, a team including Shigeru Ban, Tokyo; Frederic Schwartz, New York; Ken Smith, New York; Rafael Vinoly, New York; and as consultants, Arup, London; Buro Happold Engineers, Bath, England; Jorg Schlaich, Stuttgart, Germany; William Moorish, Charlottesville, Va..; David Rockwell, New York; and Jane Marie Smith, Baltimore.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lower Manhattan Development Corporation officials headed to a conference to announce the names of those working on trade center site designs. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE DESIGN (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); PORT AUTHORITIES (88%); RETAIL PROPERTY (86%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITIES (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); FERRIES (67%); TERRORISM (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ARCHITECTURE 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%); FOSTER + PARTNERS LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



722 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: FILM IN REVIEW; 
'Skins'

BYLINE:  By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
Directed by Chris Eyre
R, 90 minutes
 "Skins," a new feature by the American Indian filmmaker Chris Eyre ("Smoke Signals"), is set in and around the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, a windswept slum just a few miles away from Mount Rushmore. 
 Conditions on the reservation are so appalling -- rampant unemployment, epidemic alcohol abuse, woefully inadequate sanitation -- that Mr. Eyre continually interrupts his slight narrative to lament them. And "Skins," which opens today in Manhattan, might have been better off as a documentary, with less of Mr. Eyre's uninspired dramatics and more of his sense of observation and outrage. 
Based on the 1995 novel by Adrian C. Louis, as adapted for the movies by Jennifer D. Lyne, "Skins" is a study in helpless rage -- the rage of one man, Rudy Yellow Lodge (Eric Schweig), a reservation police officer whose small attempts to improve the lot of his people don't seem to be adding up to much. His older brother, Mogie (Graham Greene, of "Dances with Wolves"), fell into alcoholism after his tour of duty in Vietnam, and now lives in a squalid shack, leaving his mother's sister to bring up his teenage son (Noah Watts). 
Liquor sales are forbidden on the reservation, but it's only a few miles to the Nebraska state line, where cheap package-goods stores have sprung up to serve the Indian population. Mogie spends much of his time propped up against one such establishment, where he begs money and spends it on malt liquor for himself and his best friend, Verdell Weasel Tail (the imposing Gary Farmer, who starred in "Smoke Signals"). 
The law is impotent to do anything about the liquor stores, so Rudy, out of anger and frustration, decides to take matters into his own hands. He slips out at night and firebombs a store, unaware that Mogie is sleeping on its roof. 
Mogie survives, though just barely, and the balance of "Skins" is devoted to Rudy's guilt-ridden concern for his older brother's fading health. Not much of this sentimental material departs from the standard soap-operatic formulas, and its artificial quality is only underlined by the documentary realism of the setting.
But Mr. Eyre does make the most of the opportunities for comedy offered by Ms. Lyne's screenplay, and with sly performers like Mr. Greene and Mr. Farmer around, the laughs are solid and frequent. But in the absence of real dramatic development, the film's anger collapses into sour discontent and a sense of tired helplessness, neither of which makes vivid cinema.
"Skins" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for profanity and some grisly violence. DAVE KEHR

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CONTENT RATINGS (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (76%); BEER & ALE (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); PACKAGED GOODS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



723 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 4645 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

"AGAINST THE MODERN: DAGNAN-BOUVERET AND THE TRANSFORMATION OF THE ACADEMIC TRADITION," National Academy of Design Museum, 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880 (through Dec. 8). The academically trained French painter Pascal-Adolphe-Jean Dagnan-Bouveret was internationally celebrated in the last two decades of the 19th century. He secretly used photography to achieve a vivid realism that was most convincingly realized in a series of paintings devoted to religious customs of peasant folk in Brittany. After 1900 he made pseudo-Renaissance Christian pictures, and when he died in 1929, few remembered him. In the catalog essay, the show's curator, Gabriel P. Weisberg, makes a fascinating story out of this career, shedding much light on the development of early Modernism. Hours: Wednesdays and Thursdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission $8; $4.50 for students and 65+ (Ken Johnson).

"AMERICAN ANTHEM: MASTERWORKS FROM THE AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM," 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040 (through Jan. 5). The last of three shows celebrating the American Folk Art Museum's new building, "Anthem" displays more than 250 objects in the museum's collection, and in the cleverly designed new digs the show really comes on strong. It displays some of folk art's most esteemed icons, among them the "Flag Gate," a weathered farm gate of painted wood in the shape of an American flag; a pair of spiffy lady-and-gentleman portraits by Ammi Phillips; a spirited carousel horse from Coney Island carved by Charles Carmel; and a life-size baseball player at bat, carved by Samuel Anderson Robb. For the first time the show includes the work of 20th-century self-taught artists in context with earlier folk art in the collection. Also for the first time the museum demonstrates its recently expanded collecting interests beyond the United States, showing the work of 20th-century self-taught Europeans like Adolf Wolfli, Madge Gill and Carlo Zinelli. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+ (Grace Glueck)

JUDY CHICAGO: "THE DINNER PARTY," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Feb. 9). This exhibition welcomes back Ms. Chicago's extravagant installation banquet of ceramic plates and handmade table runners dedicated to 39 women. This feminist landmark is joining its permanent collection 22 years after its first appearance at the museum. It is amazing to see. Made with the help of hundreds of volunteers from 1975 to 1979, "The Dinner Party" sums up the first stage of feminist art, reflects the late 70's rematerialization of the art object and is startlingly prescient of the art of the late 80's and 90's in its ambition to be both aggressively visual and politically charged. Despite being almost as much a part of American culture as Norman Rockwell, Walt Disney, W.P.A. murals and the AIDS quilt, it still retains much of its original revolutionary fervor. Hours and admissions: Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $6; $3 for students and 62+ (Roberta Smith).

* "CULTIVATED LANDSCAPES: REFLECTIONS OF NATURE IN CHINESE PAINTING WITH SELECTIONS FROM THE COLLECTION OF MARIE-HELENE AND GUY WEILL," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Feb. 9). This show is basically a rotation of the permanent collection, of the kind required to protect light-sensitive silk scrolls and ink-painted album pages. But the Met has a flair for turning necessity into a virtue by reintroducing work along thematic lines and introducing fresh material to lend a sense of event. Such is the case here. At the center of the reinstallation is a group of splendid Ming and Qing dynasty paintings recently given or promised to the museum by the New York collectors Marie-Helene and Guy Weill. They are a genuine attraction in themselves and a logical link in the continuum that this museum's remarkable Chinese holdings span from beginning to end. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $7 for students and 65+ (Holland Cotter).

* EXPOSED: THE VICTORIAN NUDE, Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Jan. 5). For the latest overview of British naughtiness, you may once again go to (where else?) Brooklyn, for this show of not very prudish Victorian art. "Exposed" has even more naked women without their pubic hair than the last Vanessa Beecroft show at the Gagosian Gallery. The naked young maidens here, shackled to a rock or draped over the oars of a ship (the boatmen bravely stare straight ahead) or riding horses or just standing there with an anaconda wrapped around their bodies are Andromeda, the Sirens, Godiva and Harmonia. The artists include Sargent, Frederic Leighton and Herbert Schmalz, whose "Faithful Unto Death" presents half a dozen or so naked damsels, loosely bound to herms, awaiting lions in the Circus Maximus. Lawrence Alma-Tadema imagines apple-flushed Victorian women soaking in a Roman plunge bath. Fortunately, the show does not stint on genuine porn. Perfume and underwear advertisers today clearly have nothing on the feisty Victorians. The show ends with works by Walter Sickert and Gwen John, artists at the turn of the last century who dispensed with the kinky fantasies of antigravitational breasts and painted what they really saw. Hours and admissions: See above (Michael Kimmelman)

* "FACING THE MASK" and "RECENT ACQUISITIONS: SELECTIONS FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION," Museum for African Art, third floor, 36-01 43rd Avenue, Long Island City, (718) 784-7700 (through March 3). The Museum for African Art, formerly of SoHo, makes the leap to a new home in Long Island City, Queens, with a very beautiful if surveyish show titled "Facing the Mask," which happens to be all about moving. Some of the moving is physical, some psychological and spiritual, and it is embodied in more than 70 stunning masks, no two alike, from across sub-Saharan Africa. Some were used for popular entertainment; others were moral forces incarnate. Their purpose was transport, and they are supplemented here by films of masquerades in action. Also on view is a selection of work from the museum's still small but growing permanent collection. Hours: Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50 for students and seniors (Cotter).

"MOVING PICTURES," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 88th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through Jan. 12). This survey of photography with a small selection of video, film and installation art appended may be the largest exhibition of its kind in a major New York museum. Drawn almost entirely from the Guggenheim's permanent collection, it has a snappy yet unobtrusive design by Hani Rashid and ably surveys the expansion of contemporary art by camera-dependent media from the late 1960's to now. It begins with works by Nam June Paik, Bruce Nauman and Robert Smithson, then moves up the museum's ramp through photographs by Nan Goldin, Cindy Sherman and Andreas Gursky, concluding with video and film by artists like Stan Douglas, Shirin Neshat and Pierre Huyghe. An added attraction is the foam-lined, cavelike video galleries perched at the top of the spiral, which give the show a giddy, Hall of the Mountain King finale that seems to say "onward and upward with video." Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $12; $9 for students and 65+ (Smith)

* "POUSSIN, CLAUDE AND THEIR WORLD: 17TH-CENTURY FRENCH DRAWINGS FROM THE ECOLE DES BEAUX-ARTS, PARIS," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through Dec. 1). Over the centuries the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, the world's oldest surviving art school (founded in 1648), assembled an enormous collection of works to instruct its students in the discipline of drawing, which it considered paramount to their training. Among the holdings, those from the 17th century, the great age of Nicolas Poussin and Claude Lorrain, are especially outstanding. The 71 on display here survey French drawing from 1620 to 1680, when Classicism came to French art, aiming to restore High Renaissance ideals of clarity, order and balance with the Italian painter Raphael as a revered model. The show's emphasis is on the works of Poussin (1594-1665) and Claude (1604-1682), a history painter and a landscapist respectively. But lesser-known masters like Simon Vouet, Eustache Le Sueur and Charles LeBrun are also included. Wicked doings in the Bible, sex in mythology, the ordered schematics of French architecture and the pomp and circumstance of the French court are some of the subjects covered by these drawings, which should send any aficionado to the Frick on the run. Hours and admissions: Tuesday through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; students and 62+, $5 (Glueck).

"WINOGRAND 1964," International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 860-1777 (through Dec. 1). In 1964, the photographer Garry Winogrand crisscrossed America in a slow, black 1957 two-door Ford Fairlaine, taking nearly 20,000 photographs along the way. Here are around 150 of them, most of them never shown before. Some are not terrific. Winogrand was a hit-and-miss artist, and the show could have been edited. But others are great, and together they make a fresh, divinely eccentric portrait of America after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. The resonance with 9/11, though obvious, goes unstated. A poor skeptic, Winogrand clearly saw the fragility and the preciousness of what binds people together. Many of the pictures seem fragile, too: they're fleeting stories sometimes so provisional as to be barely coherent, irreducible, like life, to a simple message. They record the effects of new places -- airports, malls, suburbia -- that Winogrand recognized before other photographers, along with the peculiar new rituals they inspired. In Portland, Ore., he found a shopping mall with a skating rink in it; he updated Norman Rockwell by shooting a towheaded boy in a striped shirt standing in the striped shadow of the awning at a Sandy's Jr. drive-up window. And at Dealey Plaza in Dallas, in front of the Book Depository (a famous picture), he focused on the oglers with their postcards and cameras, avoiding whatever might smack of platitudes or ritual mourning. It's a dark-humored image, typical of Winogrand, almost too good to be true but not cruel or without heart. Winogrand captured how America once again transformed catastrophe into commerce, an inevitable but also strangely redemptive process. Hours and admission: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $9; $6, students and 62+ (Kimmelman).

Galleries: 57th Street

TOLAND GRINNELL, "A Mobile Home and Other Necessities," Mary Boone Gallery, 745 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, (212) 752-2929 (through Oct. 19). The artist goes to even greater lengths than usual to state the obvious, handmaking a 31-piece suite of luggage that has all the comforts of the most luxurious Upper East Side co-op apartment to remind us that we live in an era of material excess. The works have an empty-headed muscle-bound perfection in which message is overwhelmed by medium. But the impeccable pale yellow caning with forest green leather trim should be optioned by Vuitton or Hermes pronto (Smith).

* "THE HEAVENLY TREE GROWS DOWNWARD: SELECTED WORKS BY HARRY SMITH, PHILIP TAAFFE AND FRED TOMASELLI," James Cohan Gallery, 41 West 57th Street, (212) 755-7171 (through Oct. 19). Harry Smith (1923-1991) is best known for his archival recording project "Anthology of American Folk Music." But he was also a filmmaker and an inventive painter. Some of his paintings and early films are shown here, and they reflect his many interests, from alchemy and psychoactive drugs to jazz and modernist art. He is joined in this show by two fine contemporary painters, Philip Taaffe and Fred Tomaselli, who admire his work and, in different ways, share his sensibility. Mr. Taaffe's contribution adds up to a laboratory of new ideas; Mr. Tomaselli shows some of his best collage-paintings to date (Cotter).

SOL LEWITT, "New Wall Drawings," PaceWildenstein Gallery, 32 East 57th Street, (212)421-3292 (through Oct. 12). For Mr. LeWitt, a white wall is a challenge, like a bare stage to a choreographer. At PaceWildenstein he has attacked the pristine walls with bold onslaughts of color, orchestrating red, yellow, blue, purple, orange and green into six continuous geometric drawings that form a spectacular color environment. The most dazzling runs more than 58 feet and is 12 feet high. It consists of bars of different lengths and colors played off against each other lengthwise, crosswise and diagonally on a ground of vivid red. A contrapuntal romp (Glueck).

ALIX PEARLSTEIN, "Episode," Artemis Greenberg Van Doren, 730 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, (212) 445-0444 (through Oct. 5). The basic tensions of family life are the subject of a breakthrough video installation, enacted with comic flair yet emotional accuracy by four able actors who never say a word. With the help of a constantly roving, tilting camera and all-white background, the work has a loopy spatial quality that can even set in motion the viewer who wants to keep up with the action, which is projected on opposite walls (Smith).

Galleries: Chelsea

WILL COTTON, Mary Boone Gallery, 541 West 24th Street, (212) 752-2929 (through Oct. 19). With a dry, thin touch, Mr. Cotton continues to paint giant images of supersweet deserts like flans in a lake of syrup that are more repulsive than mouth-watering. His project might be a comment on a culture of instantaneous gratification. Now he has added to the mix nubile young women, naked or in underwear. Dusted with sugar, drenched in chocolate or smeared with frosting, these misty dream girls loll about in hypoglycemic dazes (Johnson).

ANN CRAVEN, Klemens Gasser & Tanja Grunert Inc., 524 West 19th Street, (212) 807-9494 (throuh Oct. 5). At first glance you might think Ann Craven's paintings take off rather prettily on real creatures. But no, these deer and birds are fakey simulacra, the kinds of wildlife found on greeting cards and kitschy calendars. The deer, or dear, as Ms. Craven prefers to call them, pose fetchingly in green grass; the birds, of mixed ancestry and shrill plumage, perch on branches against blurry floral backgrounds. But this sprightly, deliberately slick artificial aviary goes on too long. After all, there isn't much new in the story of kitsch befouling nature (Glueck).

ROWENA DRING, Elizabeth Dee Gallery, 545 West 20th Street, (212) 924-7545 (through Oct. 5). This young, Amsterdam-based Englishwoman makes Pop-style, photo-based landscapes by a surprising technique. Using a sewing machine and black thread, Ms. Dring produces her pictures by stitching countless pieces of colored fabric to stretched canvases. The effect is more impressive the bigger the size, as in a picture of a forest waterfall that measures 7 by 10 feet. In its expansive, percussive luminosity, it is like a Tiffany stained-glass window (Johnson).

FERUS, Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-1111 (through Oct. 19). A tribute to the life, times and art of Ferus, the far-sighted gallery that was arguably the point of origin of the Los Angeles art scene but that also reflected its artistic moment -- the fertile decade from 1957 to 1967 -- as fully as any New York gallery. Major works by Ed Ruscha, Frank Stella, Ellsworth Kelly, Billy Al Bengston, Robert Irwin, Larry Bell and Jay DeFeo and others make the show a museum-caliber treat (Smith).

* MICHAEL HURSON, Paula Cooper Gallery, 521 West 21st Street, (212) 255-1155 (through Oct. 12). At the heart of this show are seven drawings done from a reproduction of Seurat's painting "Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte." They reiterate the painting's gliding figures and majestic recession of space, while replacing its seamless surface with the quirky, slightly anxious, multitextured intimacy that Mr. Hurson has developed over the years and puts to excellent use here (Smith).

MIKI LEE, Lyons Wier Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 242-6220 (through Oct. 5). It's hard to go wrong with stripes. Miki Lee fills medium-size canvases with carefully painted wiggly stripes in saturated colors. Each contains scores of stripes, no two of which are exactly the same hue. There's nothing deep or surprising about these paintings, but they are easy on the eyes (Johnson).

* ROBERT MELEE, "You Me and Her," Andrew Kreps Gallery, 516 West 20th Street, (212) 741-8849 (through Oct. 5). Picasso had his wives and lovers. William Wegman has his Weimaraners. Robert Melee has his mother. She is the muse of his current show and, as always, an arresting presence: past middle age, partial to Phyllis Diller wigs, Alice Cooper eyeliner and alcohol, she is the subject of photographs and videos notable for their mingling of affection and aggression. They exist in some transcendantly abject universe where inhibitions and animosities fall where they may, where perversity is pleasure and decay a kind of innocence. You may not want to live there, but you won't forget your visit in a hurry (Cotter).

JOAN MITCHELL, HORACE BRISTOL, Robert Miller Gallery, 524 West 26th Street, (212) 366-4774 (through Oct. 12). A selection of works from four decades by the estimable Abstract Expressionist Joan Mitchell includes some especially fine, sensuously gnarly examples from the late 1950's and early 60's. Bristol, an early Life magazine staff photographer, made photographs for the Navy in the 1940's. His clean, romantic, sepia images of planes parked on aircraft carriers or flying in formation and group portraits of sailors on and off the job look more like film stills than journalistic documents. They have an odd resonance now in a time of war anxiety and patriotic agitation (Johnson).

YOSHIYUKI MIURA, Von Lintel Gallery, 555 West 25th Street, (212) 242-0599 (through Oct. 12). Using industrial materials, Mr. Miura makes sculptures as visually gripping as they are physically seductive. The centerpiece here is a circular work consisting of hundreds of vertical steel rods, each with a golden bronze tip, which grow taller as they progress concentrically from the center. The geometric order gives way to shifting, optically pulsating patterns of radiating, glinting gold dots and vibrating black verticals (Johnson).

SCOTT RICHTER, Elizabeth Harris Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 463-9666, (through Oct. 15). Scott Richter piles up pigment on tables or wall plaques in luscious, thick, gooey layers that make the viewer long for a lick. The works need no other justification for their existence than the pure pleasure of paint, yet they do have references, to Pop Art, to Minimalism, to the Hudson River School, to the palettes of different painters admired by Mr. Richter, even to world events. The piece de resistance is a table, "Big Sky," dedicated to Frederic E. Church. It celebrates the romantic tints of the Hudson River School, whose canvases made the American wilderness into gorgeous stage sets. A smooth, shiny, hardened wall of paint sweeps up from the back edge of the table, its nuanced sunset colors shimmering over a flat yellowish-orange ground that ends at the table's front edge in thick encrustations and gobbets of paint. In evokes those sublime landscapes, yet gives new dimensions to paint as its own subject (Glueck).

* JULIA SCHER, "Security by Julia XLV: Security Landscapes"; RICKY SWALLOW, "Tomorrow in Common," Andrea Rosen Gallery, 525 West 24th Street, (212) 627-6000 (through Oct. 12) Ms. Scher's latest installation is like a prison camp in a zany parallel universe. Within a spiral, cyclone fence structure, lights flash, overhead fans spin, computer-driven monitors track viewer movements and speakers broadcast peculiar announcements in a woman's voice: "Your sensate probes are being measured now." Mr. Swallow's remarkable carved wood sculptures -- a tire, a down sleeping bag -- look like actual objects that were turned to wood by a sorcerer (Johnson).

TOSHIKO TAKAEZU, Charles Cowles, 537 West 24th Street, (212) 925-3500 (through Oct. 5). This eminent ceramist is justly celebrated for her enormous pod-shaped vessels that seamlessly combine rugged physicality, expressionistic glazing and classical serenity. The biggest stand about human height and have bulbous profiles and nipple-like protrusions at the top, all of which makes for a certain primal, maternal presence (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

* MISSY STEVENS, "A Year of Change"; PRUE VENABLES, "Objects," Nancy Margolis Gallery, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 343-9523 (through Oct. 5). Using needle, thread and beads, Missy Stevens makes tiny, tightly knit tapestries of riveting optical and material richness. Her images may seem whimsically simple-minded, but as in the poetry of Emily Dickinson, formal ingenuity and heartfelt moods ranging from ecstasy to grief give the work a depth that belies the seemingly naive surface. Ms. Venables's classical serene domestic ceramics nicely complement Ms. Stevens's busy quirkiness (Johnson)

Galleries: Brooklyn

KARL JENSEN, "Pulpit," Five Myles, 558 St. Johns Place, Crown Heights, (718) 783-4438 (through Oct. 6). If the Hell's Angels had a church, their pulpit might look something like Mr. Jensen's spin on ecclesiastical design, which you might call heavy-metal Rococo. With enough ceiling height, his nonfunctional pulpit made of ingeniously cut-up and bolted-together sheets of steel would soar 25 feet. Here it's divided into two parts, focusing on its ingenious systematic construction and semiotic details, including commercial plaques, dangling monkeys and the six two-headed concrete turtles that the whole thing stands on (Johnson).

* MATT MARELLO, "The Pollock Project," Pierogi, 177 North Ninth Street, Williamsburg, (718) 599-2144 (through Oct. 7). This wry yet mythically resonant meditation on the cult of the Dionysian artist features video projections in which the artist has digitally inserted himself into clips of Jackson Pollock painting, the Led Zepplin percussionist John Bonham drumming and the action-movie star Bruce Lee performing with nunchakus. A fourth shows the view from a car driving at night. Actual drumsticks, nunchaku sticks and a paintbrush, all carved from wood found near the site of Pollock's fatal car crash, are displayed in a vitrine like sacred relics (Johnson).

"POP PATRIOTISM," Momenta Art, 72 Berry Street, Williamsburg, (718) 218-8058 (through Oct. 6). This group show satirizes commercial exploitation of post 9/11 patriotism. Thomas Sherrod's lovingly painted teddy bear paints stars and stripes on a dollar sign in the sky; David Opdyke's "Suburbanistan" remaps Afghanistan as a suburban tract; Christy Rupp offers "Taliban Barbie," the real doll in a burka; Heidi Schlatter's video compiles a montage of narcissistic pop stars singing patriotic anthems; and the show's curator, Peter Scott, displays his collection of red-white-and-blue kitsch, including key chains, magazine covers and flip-flop sandals (Johnson).

"YOU'RE JUST A SUMMER LOVE, BUT I'LL REMEMBER YOU WHEN WINTER COMES," Priska C. Juschka Fine Art, 97 North Ninth Street, Williamsburg, (718) 782-4100 (through Oct. 6). The young artists in this larky group exhibition share a downtown sensibility (rooted in this case in Manhattan's Lower East Side); various kinds of friendships; and an anarchic, school's-out-forever aesthetic, which might be described as a post-punk-hippie-grunge hybrid. A retro-60's strain is played out in stained-glass sculptures and painted rainbows. A video by Kid America has the streetwise visual snap of graffiti and the frantic pacing of a television commercial. The art world may be fixated on Well-Made Objects these days, but a high, here-today communal energy is the story here (Cotter).

Other Galleries

KAREN BARTH, Cheryl Pelavin, 13 Jay Street, TriBeCa, (212) 925-9424 (through Oct. 12). Ms. Barth squeegees, smears, puddles and otherwise manipulates paint into lush, layered abstractions. At once spacey and sensuously material, they call to mind Gerhard Richter's abstract paintings but they are unambiguously romantic (Johnson).

Last Chance

MIMI GROSS, "Charm of the Many," Salander O'Reilly Galleries, 20 East 79th Street, (212) 879-6606 (through tomorrow). A painter, sculptor and installation artist as well as a costume and set designer, Ms. Gross has also made likenesses of family, friends, other art worldlings and such. Aside from her refreshingly unslick talent for drawing and modeling with pigment, she has an evocative way of catching her subjects as if they had paused in a conversation with her. What she has done is to make a continuing catalog of the faces that capture her interest, and every face she meets apparently does, to the viewer's pleasure (Glueck).

JENNY HOLZER, "Protect Me From What I Want," Printed Matter, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 925-0325 (through Monday). Ms. Holzer's blunt, insistent sound bites have been buzzing through the collective culture since the early 1980's, conveyed on baseball hats, T-shirts, foam plastic cups and bumper stickers, as well as with nylon stockings and china. This survey thoroughly samples these ephemeral efforts and celebrates her distinctive way with words, filling the premises with Holzer-babble. Its subversive consciousness-raising and sense of apocalyptic foreboding seems freshly pertinent (Smith).

JOSEPH MAIDA, "Interior Portraits," Wallspace, 453 West 17th Street, (212) 675-5804 (through tomorrow). Hanging around the homes of his friends, Mr. Maida captures images of people in relaxed, unposed and unguarded moments. His rich, medium-large color photographs may call to mind Nan Goldin's diaristic imagery, but they lack the alienating, self-conscious bohemianism (Johnson).

* "THE PAINTINGS OF JOAN MITCHELL," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Sunday). The impact of Mitchell's works, especially the later ones (she died of lung cancer 10 years ago, at 66), is so immediately intoxicating that a natural reaction is to distrust the art. Distrust your distrust. Lush, opulent fields of color, seemingly all paradisiacal, contain shades of melancholy that reveal themselves to you after your eyes adjust to their light. Mitchell absorbed the influences of Pollock, Gorky, Kline and de Kooning. There are ferocious paintings of clotted splatters in the 1950's. Then hovering shapes appear in muted green, gray and blue in the 60's. They give way by the early 70's to more vividly colored multipanel paintings in which increasing varieties of shapes and lines jostle. Mitchell's last works, from the 80's and early 90's, push Monet into the late-20th century ecstatically. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $9.50 for students and 62+ (Kimmelman).

GRAPHIC: Photos: A 45-inch mask from Ivory Coast at the Museum for African Art. (The Museum for African Art); "White Sands National Monument" (1964) by Garry Winogrand at the International Center of Photography through Dec. 1. (Center for Creative Photography) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); BASEBALL (75%); RELIGION (68%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (59%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF DESIGN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



724 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Irish Sell Troubled U.S. Bank But MaintainSome Influence 

BYLINE:  By BRIAN LAVERY 

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Allied Irish Banks said today that it would sell its American retail banking subsidiary, Allfirst Financial, to the M&T Bank Corporation of Buffalo for $3.1 billion in cash and stock.
 The deal rids Allied Irish of the subsidiary responsible for a major embarrassment. Seven months ago, Allfirst, based in Baltimore, said it had lost $691.2 million because of improper foreign-exchange trading by John Rusnak, one of its traders. Mr. Rusnak has pleaded not guilty to bank fraud charges and is awaiting trial. 
 Acquiring Allfirst will move M&T up to No. 18 among American banks, with $49 billion in assets and 713 branches from upstate New York to Virginia.
M&T will pay Allied Irish $886 million in cash plus 26.7 million shares, or 22.5 percent, of the combined company. The stake will make Allied Irish the largest shareholder in M&T, eclipsing Warren E. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway, which now has 7 percent.
Allied Irish will get four seats on the board of the combined M&T-Allfirst, and Robert Wilmers, M&T's chairman and chief executive, will get a seat on Allied Irish's board. The two companies described the deal as a strategic partnership and said their corporate cultures matched closely. Both American banks lend largely to business customers.
The deal, which will probably close in the first quarter of 2003, is subject to approval by shareholders of both companies. Merrill Lynch advised Allied Irish on the deal, while Lehman Brothers advised M&T.
Allied Irish's stock, which had fallen nearly 14 percent in the last month, climbed nearly 9 percent today, to 12.5 euros ($12.20) a share in Dublin; it is Ireland's largest company by market capitalization. M&T shares rose 7.3 percent, or $5.42, in New York, closing at $80.11.
Officials at Allied Irish said that the sale was not prompted by the trading scandal, which rocked the Irish markets in February and cut the parent company's 2001 profits in half.
The bank said at that time that Mr. Rusnak, 40, had piled up hidden losses over five years without Allfirst management's noticing. Six Allfirst and Allied Irish executives were dismissed over the affair, and Susan Keating, Allfirst's chairwoman and chief executive, resigned in July.
"The Rusnak affair has had absolutely no impact on this deal," Gary Kennedy, Allied Irish's chief finanncial officer, said in an interview today broadcast on RTE Radio. "Our new partners, M&T, would have seen the Rusnak event as a one-time event and certainly nothing to take into account in terms of the dilution of value." The company said today that Allied Irish's chief executive, Michael Buckley, first approached M&T about a possible deal in October 2001. He gave no hint of it in the weeks after the trading scandal came to light, saying at that time that Allfirst was integral to Allied Irish's American expansion plans. In an April interview, he said he wanted to increase Allfirst's annual profit growth to 8 percent, and that Allfirst would grow through acquisitions.
Over the last two years, Allied Irish and its main rival, the Bank of Ireland, have themselves been spoken of as possible takeover targets for Continental giants like Deutsche Bank or ABN Amro. Allied Irish appeared to shore up its defenses against any hostile takeover today, saying it planned to spend $450 million of the deal's $886 million cash proceeds to buy back its own stock.
Investors reacted positively to news of the deal, which extracts Allied Irish from deep involvement in the American market, where many analysts said it could not compete.
"There is a huge sense of relief that the American strategy has been clarified," said Jim Power, chief economist at Friends First Asset Management in Dublin. Mr. Power said that Allied Irish's minority stake in M&T represented the beginning of a graceful exit from large-scale American operations. (Allied Irish maintains a small independent American presence through its bank for nonprofit organizations, Allied Irish America.)
Seamus Murphy, an analyst with Merrion Capital in Dublin, disagreed, saying that Allied Irish was sustaining its commitment to the United States market, albeit in a different form: Allfirst, he said, now had the power of M&T behind it.
"You have confidence in A.I.B. management restored somewhat," he said. "It makes A.I.B. a more attractive investment proposition." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); APPROVALS (67%) BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: M&T BANK CORP (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); ALLIED IRISH BANKS PLC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ALLIED IRISH BANKS; ALLFIRST FINANCIAL; M&T BANK CORP; BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC 

TICKER: MTB (NYSE) (93%); BRK.B (NYSE) (56%); BRK.A (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%) SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (67%); ROBERT G WILMERS (58%) LAVERY, BRIAN; BUFFETT, WARREN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (88%) IRELAND

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



725 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Minutes Indicate Fed Policy Makers' Concern About Stocks 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers believe that a decline in the stock market could be the catalyst for another rate cut, according to the minutes of the Aug. 13 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee.
 The comment is sure to raise eyebrows on Wall Street, where reading Fed tea leaves is a big business, because it could reignite the debate over how much the stock market figures in Fed policy making. 
 The minutes of the August meeting were released two days after two Fed policy makers dissented from a committee decision to leave the central bank's benchmark interest rate unchanged at a 40-year low of 1.75 percent. 
The dissent led many Fed analysts to conclude that the groundwork has been laid for an interest rate cut at the policy making meeting scheduled for November, if economic data continues to be weak. The comment in the August minutes could be interpreted to mean that a further decline in stocks would also set the stage for a November rate cut, even if the economic data does not get much worse.
Since the spring, when the overall stock market began its decline to a five-year low, some analysts have concluded that Fed policy makers will cut rates if the stock market keeps plunging. They based their analysis on comments from Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and on the aggressive rate cutting when the market was plunging in the beginning of 2001. But the fact that there has been no rate cut undermined this contention.
Fed officials have done their best to distance themselves from the idea of linking policy actions to the performance of the stock market. But the comment in the minutes may make this effort difficult again.
This is the significant sentence in the minutes: "To be sure, a further significant weakening in economic prospects -- for example, that might be associated with additional deterioration in financial markets -- might well call for a policy response, but for now the members viewed the current degree of monetary accommodation as appropriately calibrated to provide the stimulus needed to foster a solid expansion that would bring the economy to fuller resource utilization."
Tony Crescenzi, chief bond market strategist at Miller Tabak & Company, said, "This statement is, in essence, evidence that a 'Greenspan put' is now in place."
"In other words," he added, "if stocks fall, the Fed might act to lower interest rates and thereby support equities."
'Greenspan put' is the market jargon coined to mean that the Fed would step in to stop a steep decline in the stock market.
Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley, said the sentence did not directly link a rate cut to a decline in the stock market. But he did acknowledge that a decline in stocks -- when used as an leading indicator of slowing economic activity -- could justify a rate cut. The Fed, Mr. Berner said, "might infer from what is going on in the financial markets that economic weakness is on the way."
Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG/Hoenig, had a similar interpretation. He said that further stock market declines would have real negative economic consequences. Therefore, Fed policy makers, he said, can say "we are not responding to the market but to the prospect that the economy will be weaker."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan received an honorary knighthood from Queen Elizabeth yesterday in Scotland. With him was his wife, Andrea Mitchell. (Pool Photo by David Cheskin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF GREAT BRITAIN; MITCHELL, ANDREA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SCOTLAND (59%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



726 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Manugistics to Cut Jobs as Sales Decline 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: ROCKVILLE, Md., Sept. 26 

 BODY:
The Manugistics Group, whose software links businesses with their suppliers, said today that it planned to eliminate 10 percent to 12 percent of its work force, or as many as 166 jobs, to pare expenses as sales decline. 
 The company's shares fell as much as 14 percent. The cuts will reduce third-quarter earnings $2 million to $4 million. Manugistics, which eliminated 142 jobs in the fiscal second quarter, forecast savings of $5 million to $7 million a quarter. The company has 1,387 workers, a spokeswoman, Didi Blackwood, said. 
 Manugistics' sales have slipped as customers cut spending on software to connect with suppliers and as competition increases from SAP, Oracle, PeopleSoft and I2 Technologies. The company said its loss in the second quarter ended Aug. 31 widened to $47.7 million, or 68 cents a share, from $21.7 million, or 32 cents, a year earlier. Sales fell 5.2 percent.
"We must show we can make money in both a down and up economy," the chief executive, Greg Owens, said on a conference call. 
Manugistics shares, which have fallen 82 percent in the last year, dropped as low as $3.31 in trading after the announcement. They fell 13 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $3.85. 
The company has been trying to trim costs through job cuts and smaller budgets for sales and product development. Revenue in the second quarter declined to $69.9 million, less than the average $70.8 million analysts polled by Thomson First Call expected. In last year's second quarter, sales were $73.8 million. 
Manugistics said in a statement that sales this period would be "relatively" unchanged from the second quarter. Software sales will rise "slightly." The loss in the current quarter will be smaller, Mr. Owens said. 
Its president, Richard Bergmann, who has been on a personal leave of absence since late June, is leaving the company, Manugistics said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); LABOR FORCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; SALES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: JDA SOFTWARE GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: MANUGISTICS GROUP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: BERGMANN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



727 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Agribusiness Peddles To the Proletariat in Cuba 

BYLINE:  By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: HAVANA, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Capitalism and Communism rubbed shoulders today inside a rambling exhibition hall in a suburb of Havana, where Fidel Castro and nearly 300 American companies set aside four decades of estrangement to kick off the largest American trade show ever on this impoverished island.
 As Mr. Castro meandered through the hall, sipping red wine from California, feeding baby bison from the Midwest and chatting with vendors, American companies hawked everything from M&M's and Sara Lee cake to soy burgers in hope of bringing home new business. 
 At the very least, these farmers and agribusiness giants -- a powerful bloc that has chipped away at a 40-year embargo and persuaded Congress to funnel billions of dollars to the industry -- hope for a public relations victory by showing that one can trade with Cuba, a nearby market with 11 million people to feed. 
The scene in the exhibition hall seemed strangely dissonant. Men dressed like M&M's and cans of Spam drifted past workers who noshed, happily and greedily, on the snacks and drinks offered at the booths. There were boxes of corn flakes, tubs of chocolate ice cream, slices of creamy cake, sausages, cheese, bacon and thick roast beef, all of it a feast to Cuban eyes.
"It is all very, very good," chuckled Benito Barzaga, a worker at the exhibition, a glass of free wine in his hand. "Especially the meat. Sheesh."
He was among the few Cubans allowed to see the show, to which access was restricted to selected officials from industries like the hotel trade that might buy the products.
The show was authorized by the United States government under a two-year-old law that permits American companies to export food and agricultural products to Cuba so long as the sales are made in cash. Sales from the United States to Cuba are still miniscule, but last year they jumped substantially, and this year Cuba is expected to make $135 million in purchases. President Bush opposes lifting the trade embargo before Mr. Castro embraces democracy, and members of his administration have criticized the show.
To underscore the importance of the event, Mr. Castro dropped his usual antipathy toward the United States, donned a navy blue, pin-striped suit and attended the show.
"We simply want to have fair trade, a fair exchange that bears in mind the interests of both parties," Mr. Castro said in a rambling, impromptu speech at an afternoon news conference. "There is only one good basis for lasting, serious trade -- that both parties benefit."
Gesticulating forcefully with his index finger, Mr. Castro explained that trade was not always about profit, something that might come as a surprise to the vendors in the hall. Instead, he remarked, it is sometimes about building relationships and furthering particular interests.
Mr. Castro lauded "heroic Cuban chickens" who work hard to produce eggs under difficult circumstances. Cuban officials had just signed with Radloe Foods LLC to import 30 million eggs for $1.5 million. 
For the Americans in the hall, including a smattering of politicians, the day was as much symbolic as pragmatic. "I never dreamed in my lifetime that I would stand here in the great country of Cuba, and I never dreamed I would see our two flags standing side by side," said Governor Jesse Ventura of Minnesota. "I look forward to this being just the first step in trade relations between the two countries."
Farm state lawmakers and powerful agribusiness executives, including G. Allen Andreas, chief executive of Archer Daniels Midland, who helped inaugurate the show, have pushed hard to ease trade restrictions, arguing that farmers and corporations need access to more markets. 
In 1990, they succeeded in persuading Congress to permit the sale of food and agricultural products to Cuba, despite the opposition of Cuban-Americans and influential Republicans, who argued that the money only helped prop up Mr. Castro. But opponents won a major concession: the sales must be in cash to protect the United States from Cuba's bad credit rating and its tendency to default on loans to other countries.
At first, Mr. Castro opposed the law, saying it was too restrictive. Last year, after a devastating hurricane and a precipitous drop in tourism, he changed his mind. Food and grain trickled into Cuba.
In 2000, Cuba rated last among the 228 countries that buy food and agricultural products from the United States. By the end of this year, Cuba is expected to make $165 million in purchases, jumping to 45th place.
The show alone is expected to reap $30 million for farmers and agribusiness executives, who are here to sign contracts with Alimport, the Cuban government agency in charge of imports. That food will be distributed to hotels, restaurants, schools, hospitals and the military.
"I hope people take home the message that the Cuban market is a fertile area for American companies to do business," said Peter W. Nathan, president of PWN Exhibicon International, which organized the event.
As he petted a bull, Mr. Castro talked to a cattle rancher from Minnesota about how much milk his cows produce and how much feed they require. The Cuban leader, he said, came away impressed. "We could easily increase milk production in Cuba 15 to 20 percent," said Ralph Kaehler, of Kaehler's Homedale Farm Enterprises.
Later Mr. Castro, ringed by security, ambled past stacks of mustard and grape juice and peas, as he shook hands, sampled wine and ate cheese. In his speech later on, he talked about the cornucopia of American products and said Cubans are more than willing to pay premium prices for them because they come from across the Florida Straits. "It's a psychological factor," he said. 
The trade show did not roll into Cuba without controversy.
Otto J. Reich, the assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs, recently expressed his disappointment with the event, and cautioned Mr. Ventura and others traveling to Cuba to steer clear of the island's "sexual tourism." 
Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida wrote a personal letter to Mr. Ventura, asking him not to go to Cuba. But Mr. Ventura said the United States is "not a dictatorship," and he is free to travel to Cuba to help boost business for Minnesota companies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Fidel Castro of Cuba offered milk to a bison yesterday at a food trade show in Havana, featuring nearly 300 American companies. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); ICE CREAM (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (71%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (71%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) ALVAREZ, LIZETTE; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%) CUBA; HAVANA (CUBA)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



728 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
A German Stock Market To Be Dissolved in 2003
Deutsche Borse, which runs the Frankfurt stock exchange, announced that it would close the Neuer Markt -- the technology-related market that is Germany's answer to the Nasdaq -- by the end of 2003.
 In its place, Deutsche Borse plans to establish two new categories of shares. One category will have much more stringent standards of corporate disclosure than were required by the Neuer Markt. World Business, Section W. 

Plea Bargain Seen in Stewart Case
Shares in Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia sank almost 8 percent after reports that prosecutors were close to reaching a plea agreement with Douglas Faneuil, a broker's assistant at Merrill Lynch. He is a central figure in the investigation of Ms. Stewart's sale of stock in ImClone Systems. As part of the agreement, experts said, he will probably testify against Ms. Stewart and others, including Peter E. Bacanovic, her stockbroker. C6.

SBC to Eliminate 11,000 Jobs
SBC Communications said it would cut another 11,000 jobs in the 13 states it serves because of a decline in customer numbers. The announcement will bring the number of job cuts at SBC to 20,000 this year. C6.

Ex-WorldCom Official Pleads Guilty
David F. Myers, the former controller of WorldCom, pleaded guilty to securities fraud charges, saying he had been instructed by senior management to falsify records in what became the largest corporate accounting scandal in American history. C2.

Policy Makers Worry About Stocks
Federal Reserve policy makers believe that a decline in the stock market could be the catalyst for another rate cut, according to the minutes of the Aug. 13 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. The comment could reignite the debate over how much the stock market figures in Fed policy making. C11.

The Dow rose 155.30 points, or 1.98 percent, to 7,997.12. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 15.29 points, or 1.82 percent, at 854.95. And the Nasdaq composite index eased 0.68 point, to 1,221.61. C7.

Orders to factories for big-ticket goods fell much less than expected in August, the Commerce Department said. C7.

Courtney Love Nears Settlement
Courtney Love, the singer turned actress, is close to settling her breach of contract lawsuit with the Universal Music Group, according to a person involved in the negotiations. C2.

An Unlikely Advertising Partner
Crispin Porter & Bogusky, the agency that helped create the "Truth" antismoking campaign, has taken aim at tobacco companies again. But for this effort it has found a most unexpected partner: People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Advertising. C6.

Philip Morris, the cigarette maker, sharply cut its annual profit forecast for the second time this year because of lower-than-expected sales and higher promotional spending. C4.

Ex-Qwest Official to Answer Queries
Philip F. Anschutz, the former chairman of Qwest Communications International, has agreed to be interviewed by investigators for the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Investigators want to learn more about Mr. Anschutz's sale of shares in Qwest on three different occasions in May and June 2001. C4.

Allied Irish Sells U.S. Bank
Allied Irish Banks said it would sell its American retail banking subsidiary, Allfirst Financial, to M&T Bank of Buffalo for $3.1 billion in cash and stock. In the deal, Allied Irish would have a 22.5 percent stake of the combined company. World Business, Section W.

An Effort to Better Labor's Lot
The National Labor Committee, a labor rights group, is pressing companies, including Walt Disney, to upgrade working conditions in Bangladesh. The group and others are starting a push to persuade Congress to enact legislation that would bar imports from sweatshops. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 7,997.12 up 155.30Nasdaq composite -- 1,221.61 down 0.6810-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.77% up 0.01The euro -- $0.9768 down 0.0001The dollar -- 122.65 yen down 0.20 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Martha Stewart shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (94%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TOBACCO MFG (86%); ETHICS (76%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); SCANDALS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); LITIGATION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); TESTIMONY (73%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); ACCOUNTING (71%); RECORD REVENUES (69%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (69%); SALES PROJECTIONS (66%); FACTORY ORDERS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); HISTORY (64%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (62%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); CONTRACTS LAW (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BOERSE AG (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); AT&T INC (69%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (61%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (51%)

TICKER: DB1 (FRA) (91%); T (NYSE) (69%); MSO (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (51%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



729 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: McCall Gets NOW's Endorsement, While Pataki Adds 2 More Unions and a Rap Star 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
Seeking to shore up his standing among traditional Democrats, H. Carl McCall spoke to women supporters today and accepted the endorsement of the National Organization for Women. Gov. George E. Pataki, meanwhile, appeared with a famous rap musician and added yet two more unions to his long list of supporters among labor leaders.
 Mr. McCall, who is trailing the Republican incumbent in polls, tried to rally women to his campaign with speeches that underscored the idea that he had long been a proponent of equal pay for women, legalized abortion and stronger enforcement of antidiscrimination laws. 
 "We are going to shatter the glass ceiling for all New Yorkers," Mr. McCall bellowed as he addressed 300 women at a fund-raiser here. Tonight, former Vice President Al Gore pledged his support at a fund-raiser for the Democratic candidate's campaign.
Analysts say Mr. McCall needs to capture a large percentage of women voters to win in November, but recent polls show him neck and neck with Mr. Pataki among women.
Mr. Pataki, who started his political career as an opponent of abortion, has since the late 1980's been pro-choice and supported other issues, like gun control, that appeal to women voters. In 1998, he carried 60 percent of the women's vote, up from the 46 percent he got in 1994. "Pataki has been particularly adroit at essentially neutralizing any possible gender gap McCall could take advantage of," said Richard Schrader, a Democratic political consultant.
A third-party candidate, Tom Golisano, announced plans today to begin broadcasting a new series of ads on Friday that portray the governor and the Legislature as a captive of special interests, like union leaders, businesses seeking state contracts and casino operators. In the ads, Mr. Golisano, a billionaire who is paying for his own campaign, calls for a ban on contributions from corporations, unions and companies seeking contracts.
"Our government should not be for sale," he says during one of the spots.
Governor Pataki started the day with an endorsement from LL Cool J, a rap star, in front of Michael's restaurant on 55th Street in Manhattan. Later, he was endorsed by the Building and Construction Trades Council, a 200,000-member union, and the 35,000-member Conference of Operating Engineers.
The governor's appearance with the rapper had its awkward moments. Before the endorsement, one of Mr. Pataki's aides handed the rapper a voter registration form. He filled it out on the spot without checking a party affiliation.
Then, as if to prove all politics is local, he explained that he was supporting Mr. Pataki because the governor had helped finance an assisted-living home in southeastern Queens built last year by a friend, the Rev. Floyd Flake. Then he said he also admired Mr. Pataki's selfless style in handling the crisis after the terrorist attacks last year.
"I think the way he stood back and allowed the mayor to really help the city and help us get through that, the way he showed his leadership in that area was wonderful to me," he said.
Mr. McCall had his celebrity boosters, too, at a fund-raising reception at the New York Sheraton Hotel, where he and his allies were in high spirits. As Alan G. Hevesi, the Democratic candidate to succeed him as state comptroller, rattled off a list of glowing adjectives to describe Mr. McCall, Mr. McCall pointed to the lectern and said, "You left out one of the things I wrote."
Mr. Gore, the headliner, said, "A lot of people are wondering what it's going to take to get the economy of this state and this country back on track again." 
Someone in the audience called out, "You as president." Mr. Gore laughed and said, "We're going to start by electing Carl McCall governor."
During his Albany visit, Mr. McCall accused the governor of accepting lower standards of education for schoolchildren, failing to find ways to insure the three million New Yorkers without health insurance and providing no financing for cleaning up toxic waste.
Underlying Mr. McCall's speech was a consistent motif -- that he is a traditional Democrat who cares about such things as anti-discrimination laws and good public education, while Mr. Pataki only pays lip service to those ideals.
"He's trying to rev up his Democratic base," said Lee Miringoff, the director of the Marist College poll. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: H. Carl McCall speaking at a rally with, from left, Al Gore, Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr. and Alan G. Hevesi. At right, Gov. George E. Pataki is endorsed by LL Cool J, center. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EQUAL PAY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICS (76%); ABORTION (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); MUSIC (72%); CASINOS (71%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (70%); GUN CONTROL (70%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (63%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%); TERRORISM (50%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ENDORSEMENTS; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (91%) NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN; CONFERENCE OF OPERATINTG ENGINEERS; BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION TRADE COUNCIL OF GREATER NEW YORK 

PERSON: AL GORE (73%) MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); LL COOL J (RAP SINGER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



730 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Is Seen Ahead by Nose In House Races 

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
With six weeks to go, Republicans appear to hold a slight edge in this year's fight for control of the House, according to interviews with politicians and analysts around the country and examinations of local polls.
 Republicans have about 10 more seats safely in their hands than the Democrats do. So even if they won fewer than half of the approximately 40 races that are truly competitive, they could still keep control of the House. That unusually small number of competitive districts means that the Democrats have fewer opportunities to achieve the net gain of seven seats they need to wrest control. 
 Beyond that, the Democrats have failed so far to realize their hopes of galvanizing voters nationally with domestic issues like the sluggish economy, Social Security or corporate corruption, perhaps because of the dominance of news about Iraq. 
The Democrats' distress over that issue burst into the open on Wednesday when the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle, rebuked President Bush, demanding an apology for a remark that Democrats complained had impugned their commitment to the nation's security.
While members of each party were admonishing the other to keep partisan politics out of discussions about a possible war, Iraq is emerging in polls as a critical issue. Although they are working carefully not to be seen as exploiting it, Republican leaders hope that President Bush's rising approval ratings will provide the coattails for their candidates that most recent presidents have lacked.
The campaign is by no means over. Enough seats are still in play so that the Democrats could recapture the speaker's chair they lost in 1994 for the first time in 40 years -- and the sluggish economy looms over most of them. 
Still, the Democrats would have to win two-thirds to three-fourths of those competitive seats to take control, a task compared to "filling an inside straight" by Charles Cook, editor of the influential, nonpartisan Cook Political Report. He recalled that the Democrats did just that in the Senate races in 2000, capturing almost all the closest races.
Another Washington analyst, Stuart Rothenberg, said, "If the election were held today, I think the Republicans would probably pick up a few seats." Only once since 1934 has a president's party gained House seats in a midterm election. The Democrats did in 1998.
This year's narrowed field emphasizes the importance of every race, and there are some districts where incumbents seem to have no better than an even chance of holding onto their seats. One is Minnesota's Second District, where Representative Bill Luther, a Democrat, is struggling to retain his seat against John Kline, a Republican whose campaign has brought President Bush and his father in to raise money. Another is Maryland's Eighth District, where the Republican incumbent, Constance A. Morella, faces State Senator Chris Van Hollen.
Almost all the campaign advertisements from both parties focus on domestic issues, ones that pollsters think will emphasize differences between candidates in particular districts.. As Representative Thomas M. Davis III of Virginia, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, observed: "There is no one overriding issue. There is a matrix of issues." 
So the focus is district by district. Republicans say that Mr. Luther is the most vulnerable Democrat not facing another incumbent. He and Mr. Kline are running against each other for the third straight election, and they greeted hundreds of voters last weekend in New Prague, a swing voter town settled by Czechs in the late 1800's (but pronounced 'Praig") that was celebrating its -- annual Dozinky (harvest) parade.
Mr. Luther beat Mr. Kline by 5,440 votes two years ago, but judicial redistricting has put him into a district slightly more Republican. President Bush carried the old district with 48 percent of the vote, as Mr. Luther won with 50 percent. The new district voted 51 percent for Mr. Bush.
Just as Republicans held onto the House two years ago with a firewall that enabled them to stem their net losses by winning some Democratic seats, they count on similar victories this fall to hold the House and perhaps increase their current 13-seat majority. (There are 223 Republicans, 209 Democrats, one independent who votes with Democrats, and two vacancies.)
So if imperiled Republicans like Mrs. Morella or Representatives Jim Leach of Iowa and Anne M. Northup of Kentucky lose, Republicans expect to compensate by defeating Democrats like Mr. Luther, Earl Pomeroy in North Dakota and Chet Edwards in Texas, while taking seats vacated by veteran Democrats in Indiana and Maine.
Mr. Davis, whose national Republican committee plans to spend $80 million helping candidates, argues that issues like Iraq, homeland security and defense spending are drowning out any Democratic efforts to make the economy or Social Security an effective issue and "give them a wind at their backs."
Consequently, he said, "If we break even in the tossups, we gain seats."
Representative Nita M. Lowey of New York, his Democratic counterpart, disagrees. "We're feeling very, very strong," she said, planning to spend $35 million. She said that Democrats could hold their own on issues like Iraq and still stress domestic issues. 
"Candidates can walk and chew gum at the same time," Ms. Lowey said. "I don't know any campaign that isn't being fought over Social Security privatization, the failed economy, prescription drugs." 
Those are certainly the issues Democrats are trying to stress, but they have not gained much traction so far in Minnesota' Second District. Mr. Kline said in an interview that he thought his 25-year career in the Marines might help him this time because of the Iraq situation. But his opposition to abortion may come to hurt him in a district that is still mostly the Twin Cities suburbs.
At the harvest parade in New Prague -- part of the 60 percent of the district where neither candidate has run before -- their messages were not political, just introductory: "Hi, Congressman Bill Luther, hope you've heard the name" or "Hello, I'm John Kline, running for Congress, I'd like to shake your hand."
There are certainly other races where issues are more in play. In Northern Maine, Michael Michaud, the Democrat, and Kevin Raye, the Republican, are both emphasizing the feeble local economy. In West Virginia, Democrats are blasting Representative Shelley Moore Capito over the idea of investing Social Security taxes in private accounts. In Indiana, Republicans accuse Jill Long Thompson of being a big spender when she served in the House in the 1990's.
But if race after race seems to depend on local circumstances and personalities, the single strand tying them together is the issue of control of the House. 
Former President George H. W. Bush said at a Kline fund-raiser last Thursday that control of the House may depend on Minnesota, and it was very important to his son that Republicans hold on. He raised more than $100,000 at an event closed to the news media on White House orders. The current President Bush has helped, too, raising $100,000 on July 11 in Minneapolis.
In Maryland, Mr. Van Hollen makes party control central to his run against Mrs. Morella, an eight-term incumbent. After narrowly winning a hard-fought primary over Mark K. Shriver, Mr. Van Hollen urges suburban Washington voters not to be misled by her personal stands but to remember: "The first vote cast by Connie Morella is for the Tom DeLay Republican leadership. And it is a leadership which is working hand in hand with Ashcroft and the Bush administration to take this country in a direction which I think is very out of step with the direction the people of this community would like to see us go."
The Maryland and Minnesota contests have other similarities. Both incumbents have much more money in the bank than their rivals, and both have districts tilted against them by redistricting.
Mrs. Morella, who won in 2000 with 52 percent in a district where Al Gore got 60 percent, was a clear target of Maryland's Democrats, who made her district more unfriendly by adding black voters. 
But the combative, 71-year-old Mrs. Morella takes the new boundaries as an energizing affront. She told a kickoff rally in Rockville that the big turnout meant: "We are sending the appropriate message to Chris Van Hollen and his powerful cronies in Annapolis who decided they were going to redistrict and gerrymander this district so that Morella would quit. Well, I'm not a quitter."
She portrays Mr. Van Hollen, a 43-year-old state legislator effective on issues ranging from the environment to gun control, as a future lackey of the House Democratic leadership, while she bucks her own party. "I have no fear about walking an independent path," she said. 
Though both Mr. Luther and Mrs. Morella are vulnerable, it is always dangerous to underestimate incumbents. Mrs. Morella has been a Democratic target for years. Mr. Luther has been in Republican sights repeatedly -- after he was one of only four Democrats to win a Republican seat against the tide of 1994.
At the parade in New Prague, people seemed to be taking stickers from each candidate in about equal numbers. Carrie Stevens said she was for Mr. Luther, explaining "They gave us more stickers." But she looked about 12.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Bill Luther, a Democrat struggling to retain his seat against Mr. Kline, also campaigned on Saturday at the harvest parade.; John Kline, Republican candidate in Minnesota's Second District, with his wife, Vicki, on Saturday in the harvest parade in New Prague, Minn. (Photographs by Dawn Villella for The New York Times)(pg. A25) Chart: "Competitive House Races"Here is a look at the 47 races considered most competitive by at least one of two leading nonpartisan political analysts. Chart lists the following: STATE/DISTRICTCANDIDATES (Democrat or Republican)COOK POLITICAL REPORTLeaningToss-UpROTHENBERG POLITICAL REPORTLeaningTiltingToss-Up *Incumbent. In some cases, two incumbents face each other because of redistricting. Dashes indicate the state has one at-large district.(pg. A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (54%) ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: JOHN KLINE (78%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); TOM DASCHLE (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) CLYMER, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



731 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Oil Workers Close to Deal With Mexico To Avert Strike 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 26 

 BODY:
President Vicente Fox appeared close to a deal today to end a standoff with Mexico's oil workers, who had threatened a costly strike over wages next week as the government investigates allegations of corruption among their leaders.
 The powerful 80,000-member union said it was close to an agreement on wage increases with the state oil monopoly Pemex, which contributes about a third of Mexican government revenues and is a major oil provider to the United States. "There's supposedly the framework of a deal, but the details have not yet been agreed upon," a union representative said, saying an agreement could be announced as soon as Oct. 3. 
 A scheduled meeting today of Pemex and union officials before a labor arbitration board was postponed until Monday so talks could continue, Pemex said in a statement. The strike deadline is Wednesday.
The union representative declined to say what range of pay increase the two sides were discussing. Originally the union asked for a 15 percent raise, and management offered 5.5 percent. 
Mr. Fox said a salary increase would amount to less than the amount sought by the union but could be around half that. The government has warned a wage increase above 5.5 percent could push Mexico past proposed inflation goals.
Also adding to the push for a deal was the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI. The party, which ruled Mexico for 71 years until it was ousted by Mr. Fox, has close ties with the union. A PRI statement today urged Pemex and the union to resolve things within 48 hours.
Pemex's director, Raul Munoz, said there was "reasonable optimism" that the two sides could reach an agreement.
Mr. Fox's government, swept into office two years ago on promises of an end to decades of insidious corruption, is trying to prosecute three union bosses who are also PRI lawmakers, accusing them of illegally channeling $170 million in Pemex money to the party's presidential election campaign in 2000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); STRIKES (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (94%)

ORGANIZATION: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (90%) FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2002 



732 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Heady Days for Makers of Luxury Vehicles

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Sales of cars are shaky in most of the world's major markets, the United States and Germany are struggling to avoid slipping back into recession and war talk fills the air.
 Yet to judge by the parade of luxury cars making their debut at the Paris motor show this week, one would think the automobile industry was still living in the Roaring Twenties -- or at least the late 90's. 
 In seemingly blithe defiance of economic reality, the industry is stepping up production at the rarefied end of the market: sedans and sport utility vehicles with sticker prices north of $50,000.
The drive for luxury has propelled some companies into making uncharacteristic and extremely risky bets.
Volkswagen is introducing a majestic new sedan, the Phaeton, priced from $55,000 to nearly $100,000, depending on whether customers fancy a 6- or 12-cylinder engine. 
Porsche unveiled a sleek S.U.V., the Cayenne, which starts at $56,000 and soars above $100,000 with a turbocharged engine. It is the first nonsports car in the company's history.
"We know the money is there," said Wendelin Wiedeking, the chairman of Porsche, which is making perhaps the boldest bet. "The question is: Are people going to spend the money?" 
The premium car market, with its faster growth rate and higher profits, has been the industry's sweet spot for a decade. BMW, the most profitable major carmaker, expects sales of luxury cars to grow 4 percent next year, compared with 2 to 3 percent for the whole industry.
Yet the sheer number of new models -- at a time of such economic and political uncertainty -- is raising the specter that the industry will spoil its most reliable stream of profits.
"All these cars were developed during the boom years of the late 1990's, when everybody thought the growth would carry on forever," said Graeme Maxton, an analyst at Autopolis, a consulting firm in London. "They're launching them at a time when the market is turning down."
Executives interviewed here said the car market will either be flat or will rebound modestly next year. But those predictions do not take into account potential disruptions, like a second bout of recession in the United States or military action against Iraq, which could lead to a spike in oil prices.
For all the purveyors of luxury cars to succeed, the market will not only have to grow, but grow robustly.
Executives at DaimlerChrysler estimate that in the core luxury segment -- sedans ranging from $50,000 to $80,000 -- Mercedes-Benz and its rivals will produce 205,000 to 215,000 cars next year. In a good year, they say, sales of such cars range from 150,000 to 175,000.
"There's unprecedented competition in this market," said Johannes Reifenrath, a spokesman for Mercedes.
These numbers do not take into account the upscale S.U.V. market, which increasingly overlaps with traditional luxury cars. BMW and Mercedes each produce more than 100,000 S.U.V.'s a year. BMW assembles its X5 near Spartanburg, S.C., while Mercedes makes the M-Class in Tuscaloosa, Ala.
BMW said this week that it would invest $400 million and hire 400 more workers at the Spartanburg factory, increasing its capacity to 150,000 vehicles a year. BMW also produces the Z4 sports car there.
Starting in 2003, however, BMW will face competition from Porsche as well as Volkswagen, which also introduced an upscale sport utility, the Touareg, at the auto show. The Porsche and VW vehicles share some components, though the Touareg, with a starting price of $38,000, is cheaper.
While the popularity of S.U.V.'s is well documented, some analysts say the new entrants are coming to the party late.
"Everyone has gotten caught up in this fever, but I think it is going to subside," said Christopher Cedergren, the managing director of NexTrend, an automotive research firm in Westwood, Calif. 
The stakes are probably highest for Porsche, a 54-year-old company that built its reputation on a stable of uncompromising sports cars. Mr. Wiedeking, who has run Porsche since 1992, said the Cayenne was the most critical new model in the company's history.
He said there was an opening for Porsche to attract discerning drivers who would consider buying an S.U.V., but only if it had the high performance and safety standards of a luxury car.
With a 450-horsepower engine capable of going 266 kilometers an hour (165 miles an hour), the Cayenne is not likely to be confused with a Ford Explorer. At the same time, some analysts worry that it is too big a leap from Porsche's flagship 911 or its Boxster convertible.
"I'm concerned it will dilute their brand image," Mr. Cedergren said.
Mr. Wiedeking acknowledged that an S.U.V. is a stretch. But he said that the design and engineering were in the best traditions of Porsche, and that the brand was elastic enough to accommodate a new product.
"You can stretch a rubber band, provided you do it slowly," Mr. Wiedeking said.
The same questions of elasticity are being asked about Volkswagen, Germany's largest manufacturer, which hopes to persuade people that its name, "people's car," can be stamped on a $60,000 sedan.
The Phaeton, which went on sale in Europe this summer and will come to the United States next year, is intended to compete with the top sedans sold by Mercedes, BMW and Jaguar. Skeptics say it will also cannibalize VW's Audi division, which rolled out a new version of its A8 luxury sedan this week.
The Phaeton's ambitions are even grander than the Cayenne's. VW hopes the car will lift the status of its entire brand. It has set up a separate sales and marketing team, which hopes to establish the Phaeton's credentials by persuading deluxe hotels to use it as a limousine.
Robert Buchelhofer, director of sales and marketing for Volkswagen's luxury cars, said the company was losing loyal VW owners after they graduated beyond the Passat, a midsize medium-price sedan. "The Phaeton will help us keep many of those customers," he said.
VW hopes to sell 20,000 Phaetons a year, about half in the United States. Mr. Buchelhofer said VW would turn a profit on the car in its first generation, though he would not say how many years that would be.
"The luxury category is not like other markets," Mr. Buchelhofer said. "These are affluent buyers who are less sensitive to changes in their purchasing power than they are to exciting new products."
This, in a nutshell, is the industry's rationale for producing ever-more-expensive cars. Manufacturers seem convinced that the global economy has created an expanding pool of wealthy consumers, whose desire to drive a Mercedes or BMW will not be dented by the ups and downs of their stock portfolios.
"People definitely lost a lot of money on the stock market," said Michael Ganal, head of marketing at BMW. "But we've learned that the key to their economic power is real estate, not stocks." 
BMW has bucked the industry's weak results, selling 19 percent more cars in the first eight months of this year than in the period last year. Sales of Mercedes-Benz were basically flat in the same period.
"There really isn't a wrong time, from an economic perspective, to bring out a luxury vehicle," Mr. Cedergren of NexTrend said. "The Dow is crashing, and Porsche is going to sell more 911's in the United States this year than ever before. Who would have thought it?"
Detroit's Big Three, known for mass-market appeal, have also been busy bolstering their luxury lineups and have been aggressive in expanding into new frontiers, like pickup trucks. General Motors has gone to considerable effort to revamp Cadillac, trying to transform it from a dowdy-but-proud brand for senior citizens into a full-line maker of luxury sedans, sports cars, S.U.V.'s and pickups. The newer Cadillacs, including the Escalade S.U.V. and pickup, feature bold designs that have resonated with rappers and pro athletes and have been featured in the first TV ads to use a Led Zeppelin song as a soundtrack.
The Ford Motor Company, in its turnaround plan announced in January, said its upscale brands -- Volvo, Aston Martin, Jaguar and Land Rover -- would be a cornerstone of future profits, though some analysts have said Ford is overreaching. Ford has also continued to expand its luxury S.U.V. lineup; the new Lincoln Aviator, a slightly smaller version of the Navigator, starts at $40,000.
But while the Big Three have made some strides this year -- Cadillac's sales have increased 18.6 percent through August -- luxury sales have remained strong in the United States largely because of European and Japanese brands. Toyota Motor, whose Lexus brand is the most popular luxury line in the country, is up 7.9 percent this year, through August, while Nissan Motor's revived Infiniti brand, buoyed by the new G35 sedan, is up 20.5 percent, according to the Autodata Corporation. Sales of BMW are up 6.8 percent.
Although the new luxury cars have dizzying sticker prices, analysts point out that the price of automobiles, even expensive ones, has not kept pace with inflation since 1998 because of overproduction.
"What you see is that more and more people can afford luxury cars," said Greg Melich, an auto analyst at Morgan Stanley in London. "Barring a macroshock, that affordability is going to keep going up."
As visitors gawked at the gleaming machines on display here, setting down their canapes and Champagne flutes to sit behind the wheel of the new Bentley or Jaguar, the outside world seemed very far away.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Porsche introduced the Cayenne, inset, at the Paris auto show this week. The Phaeton, left, is Volkswagen's sedan for the $55,000- to-nearly- $100,000 segment of the upscale market. (Photographs by Olivia Gay for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); RECESSION (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); TRADE SHOWS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TRENDS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%) AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; PARIS CAR SHOW; PRODUCTION 

PERSON: WENDELIN WIEDEKING (52%) LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (91%); IRAQ (79%) PARIS (FRANCE)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



733 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Revises Growth Rate Of Economy Up to1.3% 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
The economy grew at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the second quarter, a performance that was slightly stronger than previously thought but still a sharp slowdown from the beginning of the year. 
 The revised figure for gross domestic product, considered the best barometer of the country's economic health, showed that the economy grew a little faster in the April-June quarter than the 1.1 percent rate estimated a month ago, the Commerce Department said today. 
 Gross domestic product measures the total value of goods and services produced in the United States. 
The biggest factor in the upward revision was an improvement in the trade picture, which resulted in the bloated deficit being slightly less of a drag on the economy than previously estimated. 
The trade deficit shaved 1.4 percentage points off second-quarter G.D.P., compared with the reduction of 1.65 percentage points previously reported. Stronger demand for American exports accounted for the improvement. 
Even with the small improvement to second-quarter G.D.P., the economic recovery was struggling with below-par growth, reflecting less vigorous spending by consumers and deep cuts in capital spending on new plants and other buildings by businesses. 
Consumer spending in the second quarter grew at an annual rate of 1.8 percent, a bit weaker than the government previously estimated and considerably less brisk than the 3.1 percent rate seen in the first three months of this year. 
Another report, the consumer confidence survey from the University of Michigan, showed growing pessimism among consumers. The report, which is released only to subscribers, fell to 86.1 from 87.6 in August, according to people who saw the report.
Consumers, whose spending accounts for two-thirds of all economic activity in the United States, grew more cautious in the second quarter as a wave of corporate accounting scandals, a stock market slide and a stagnant job market made people more anxious about the economy's direction. 
Businesses, facing stock market distress and economic uncertainties, cut spending on new factories, office buildings and other structures at a rate of 17.6 percent in the second quarter -- it declined at a 14.2 percent rate in the first quarter. 
The economy's 1.3 percent growth rate in the second quarter was the weakest showing since the third quarter of 2001, when the G.D.P. shrank at a rate of 0.3 percent. 
The Commerce Department report showed that after-tax profit of United States corporations rose at a rate of 1.7 percent in the second quarter, the same as previously estimated, but down from 2 percent in the first quarter. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Real Economic Growth"Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation. 2nd Qtr. FinalTo: +1.3%From: +1.1 Graph shows figures from 1998-2002.(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (73%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (66%); ACCOUNTING (50%); SCANDALS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%) UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



734 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Against Lumber Tariff Is Affirmed 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization affirmed an earlier decision that the United States broke trade rules in the way it calculated a tariff on Canadian lumber.
 The decision follows the Canadian government's challenge of a temporary 19.3 percent tariff the United States imposed last August on $6 billion worth of Canadian pine, spruce and fir boards. 
The United States contended that shipments by sawmills like the Canfor Corporation and Abitibi-Consolidated were subsidized by the Canadian government. 
 Canadian officials said the ruling showed the trade arbiter was leaning against United States protections. The United States said the vote showed that Canada's natural resource subsidies fall under W.T.O. jurisdiction.
The W.T.O. said the duties were improperly based on comparisons between what Canadian provinces charge companies to cut timber on government-owned land and the cost of timber in neighboring states in the United States. The United States would have to show a gap between the cost of timber on government and private land in Canada to prove a subsidy, the W.T.O. said.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (88%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (88%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (88%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (88%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (87%); SAW MILLS (72%) WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); FORESTS AND FORESTRY 

COMPANY: CANFOR CORP (91%); RESOLUTE FOREST PRODUCTS INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

TICKER: CFP (TSX) (91%); RFP (TSX) (91%); RFP (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (91%); NAICS321211 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (91%); SIC2611 PULP MILLS (91%); SIC2435 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD (91%); SIC2421 SAWMILLS & PLANING MILLS, GENERAL (91%); NAICS322122 NEWSPRINT MILLS (91%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



735 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Downtown, A Debate Over Burying West Street 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Almost from the beginning of the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan, one point of near-universal agreement has been that Battery Park City is isolated from the rest of downtown. To rejoin it to the rest of the city, planners have proposed that West Street be buried and covered with a tree-lined promenade.
 But now, as with any major development project in New York City, local opposition has begun to build. Though few so far, a growing number of Battery Park City residents have begun to lobby against a West Street tunnel, saying they fear that a decade-long construction project will further isolate their neighborhood, rather than reconnect it to the rest of Lower Manhattan. 
 The nascent Coalition to Save West Street has raised a discomfiting specter for rebuilding officials: a fight over what could be a centerpiece of the redevelopment of long-blighted areas south of the World Trade Center site. 
"I can't see any way that this would not make it harder to live in Battery Park City," said Joanne Taylor, a resident and one of the organizers of the coalition. "In 1993, after the first bombing of the World Trade Center, West Street was closed and it took forever to get anywhere from down here. This past year, West Street was closed from September to April, and it was a nightmare for us. Now they want us to endure 10 years of construction where we will not be able to drive by car or taxi out of Battery Park City to the rest of the city."
Many rebuilding officials, including some at the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation and at some of the architecture and urban planning firms hired to work on the proposal, say they have not heard much opposition to the West Street tunnel. They point out that more than 70 percent of the participants at two town hall meetings at the Javits Convention Center this summer agreed that it was "very important" to eliminate West Street as a barrier between Battery Park City and the rest of Manhattan.
Those officials who have heard opposition have urged the disgruntled to wait until they see detailed plans, to be presented later this year, before deciding what elements of the tunnel proposals they dislike.
"There has been a heavy majority of people in Lower Manhattan and Battery Park City who believe that West Street is a barrier and it does cut them off," said Andrew Winters, director of design and development at the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the agency that is overseeing the rebuilding effort. 
The opponents, however, believe that to wait for plans is to lose the fight, one that they believe exists mainly because the people overseeing planning for Lower Manhattan do not live there and do not understand the true nature of the area. They say they fear that a buried West Street and surface promenade would not allow adequate access for emergency vehicles to get into southern Battery Park City.
They also express concern that it would restrict residents' ability to easily enter the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel, and to reach the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive via the Battery Park underpass.
Planners who have worked on West Street proposals say the promenade figures in a broader redesign of downtown, one that will increase housing in the area south of Liberty Street between Broadway and West Street. Building a grand promenade would encourage the conversion of lackluster office space in that area to apartments, and could bring the focus of both sides of West Street back toward each other. Currently, they say, most of the buildings in Battery Park City turn their backs on West Street.
Four options are being considered in the redesign of West Street. One option includes no tunnel; rather, it would have more pedestrian bridges over the street than the two that currently exist.
Bill Love, a Battery Park City resident who has spoken out against the tunnel plans at several public meetings, said he believed that "pedestrian bridges are all that's necessary." 
Two pedestrian bridges were in place before Sept. 11; one, linking the World Financial Center to the trade center and its subways, was destroyed in the collapse of the twin towers. But a new overpass has been built at Rector Street, and some plans under consideration envision five or more elevated crossings.
Other Battery Park City residents argue that West Street itself is not so formidable a barrier. "The thousands of tourists who throng to our neighborhood every weekend don't have any problem crossing over it," said John Dellaportas, who put together the coalition's Web site, www.saveweststreet.com.
Two of the other West Street proposals would cover the street only in the area immediately adjacent to the trade center site, in the four blocks from Vesey Street to Liberty Street. One of these plans would build a platform over the roadway, and the other would dig a tunnel to move traffic underground. 
Those plans are not wholly objectionable to some of the 10 coalition members who gathered on a recent evening on the World Financial Center plaza to plot strategy. Still, they say, they fear that even such a short tunnel would worsen traffic from visitors to the trade center site, particularly those who come in buses.
It is the fourth option -- a tunnel from Vesey Street to Battery Park -- that has drawn the most resistance. In part, the objections are short-term, focused on how long it would take to dig and build the tunnel. 
People on both sides make a guess at 10 years and $2 billion for such a project, a disheartening estimate given that the State Transportation Department just finished a multiyear renovation of the street, extending northward to 59th Street. The only way to pay for such a project, some residents say, is to allow for commercial construction above the tunnel.
Madelyn Wils, the chairwoman of Community Board 1, which includes the area, and a member of the development corporation's board, said she could understand the complaints of those who fear such a construction project. "A project that takes 10 years is not going to be looked upon with great admiration," she said. "I feel less empathy for those who just feel they don't want to be connected to the rest of the neighborhoods."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Looking north along West Street from a pedestrian bridge. (Alan Chin for The New York Times) Map of Lower Manhattan highlighting West Street: Four options are being considered for the redesign of West Street. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); TERRORISM (66%); BOMBINGS (66%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; BATTERY PARK CITY (NYC); TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



736 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and W.T.O. Negotiate Drug Access 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
The United States and the World Trade Organization will try to come up with an agreement by year-end on how to give poor countries greater access to drugs to fight AIDS and other diseases, trade officials said today.
 An agreement among W.T.O. members in Doha, Qatar, last year acknowledged that many nations most desperately in need of such medicines lack the means of manufacturing them. 
 Robert Zoellick, the United States trade representative, met today with Supachai Panitchpakdi, the director general of the W.T.O., in his first official trip to Washington since taking the office. Mr. Supachai of Thailand is the first official from a developing nation to lead the international trade organization.
The existing agreement on intellectual property, called Trips, granted the world's poorest nations the right to make low-cost generic versions of patented medicines, while barring those nations from importing drugs from countries like Brazil, South Africa and India.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); GENERIC DRUGS (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (88%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (85%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (72%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (65%) DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: QATAR (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); THAILAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



737 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Earnings News Sends the Dow Sharply Lower

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
After a two-day respite, stocks plunged yesterday as investors were served more earnings disappointments and more weak economic data. The only good news, if it could be called that, was that the three major stock gauges did not fall to new lows.
 The Dow Jones industrial average, off 3.7 percent, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, down 3.2 percent, were pulled lower by negative earnings news from Philip Morris and by a sharp decline in General Electric after two brokerage firms cut their ratings on the company. The Nasdaq index, off 1.8 percent, was weighed down by declines in Microsoft, Intel and Dell Computer. 
 All three gauges were down for the fifth consecutive week and it appears that when the month ends on Monday, the Dow and the Nasdaq will be down for the sixth consecutive month, while the S.&P. 500 index will be off for five of the last six months. 
As for the end of the quarter, the S.& P. 500 index and the Nasdaq are heading for their third consecutive quarterly decline while the Dow is poised for its second.
At the close, the Dow was down 295.67 points, to 7,701.45, just 18.32 points above the four-year low it hit Tuesday. The Dow is down 3.6 percent for the week, and if it closes at the same level on Monday, it would be off 11.1 percent for the month and 16.7 percent for the quarter. That would be the worst September since 1937 and the worst quarter since the 1987 market crash. The S.& P. 500 index was down 27.58, to 827.37. That is a decline of 2.1 percent for the week, 9.7 percent for the month so far and 16.4 percent for the quarter, also its worst quarterly performance since 1987.
The Nasdaq was down 22.45 points, to 1,199.16, just 16.99 points from the six-year low it reached Tuesday. For the week the Nasdaq was down 1.8 percent and would be off 8.8 percent for the month and 18 percent for the quarter. The Nasdaq fell 20.7 percent in the second quarter of this year and 30.7 percent in the third quarter a year ago.
"We have gone from a sense of all-out optimism in March, with the S.& P. at 1,170 and first-quarter growth at 5 percent, to outright fear in July," said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. "And now you get the sense that we have gone from fear to despair."
Yesterday's declines came with the announcement of more earnings disappointments, as the so-called confession season for corporate America moved into full swing. Because more companies usually say that they are going to miss earnings forecasts than beat them, the pessimistic drumbeat can be hard to ignore.
Ignoring the earnings news becomes even more difficult when new data is showing that the economy may be weaker than expected. That threat was especially highlighted this week with the surprise dissent of two Federal Reserve policy makers, who voted for an interest rate cut at the central bank's meeting on Tuesday. While the majority voted to hold rates steady, the dissents sent the signal that some policy makers think the economy is showing disturbing signs of weakness.
In addition, one of the "positive" economic reports for the week, which helped the stock market rally Thursday, was the fact that orders for durable goods declined only 0.6 percent in August, much less than the 3 percent Wall Street forecast.
Yesterday, the University of Michigan reported that its index of consumer confidence fell to 86.1 in September, from 87.6 in August and the fourth consecutive monthly decline.
Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, said in a report yesterday that "repeated shocks to the U.S. economy are delaying the onset of a full-fledged recovery." For that reason he cut his growth forecast for the fourth quarter and first quarter of 2003 to 2.5 percent, from 3.5 percent for the fourth quarter and 4.1 percent for the first quarter. He also trimmed his earnings forecast by 2 percent.
Also weighing on investors is the continued debate over a possible war in Iraq, which drove the price of crude oil over $30 a barrel this week. "I had been thinking that the war is not really having that much impact," Mr. Paulsen of Wells Capital said. "But maybe that thing hanging out there is enough to keep the bearishness alive."
A further rise in the price of oil, economists agree, would put additional drag on the economic recovery, which is already producing very little job growth. Without job growth, it will be harder for consumer spending, which accounts for about two-thirds of economic growth, to keep the economy expanding.
Philip Morris, the tobacco and foods company, said late Thursday that its profits for the year would rise 3 percent to 5 percent, down from a July forecast of 9 percent. 
Wyeth, the drug manufacturer, also said its 2002 profits would fall short of expectations. Philip Morris was down $4.87, or 11.4 percent, to $37.86, while Wyeth was off $7.35, or 19.1 percent, to $31.10.
General Electric stock was down $1.92, or 7.3 percent, to $24.47. On Wednesday, the company said that it would meet its profit forecasts for the third quarter. But in comments made in a Webcast on Thursday, a G.E. executive said that the current economic environment was tougher than the company had expected. The downgrades on stock ratings came yesterday.
Delta Air Lines said that it would have a net loss of about $350 million in the third quarter because travel demand had not rebounded as much as the company expected. Delta, the nation's third-largest airline, also announced that it would eliminate 1,500 flight attendant jobs, or about 9 percent of those jobs. The stock was down $2.81, or 24.4 percent, to $8.69.
In the bond market, interest rates slipped lower, as they usually have done when stocks are falling. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note fell to 3.66 percent in late afternoon trading, from 3.77 percent Thursday. It is just above the 3.65 percent it hit Tuesday, the lowest yield on a government security with a 10-year maturity in more than 40 years, according to the Federal Reserve. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 31/32 , to 105 28/32 . The yield on the Treasury's two-year note fell to a new low of 1.80 percent, from 1.92 percent Thursday.
The decline in longer-term rates has finally pushed 30-year mortgage rates, already at 40-year lows, below 6 percent. The Freddie Mac national average rate on a 30-year mortgage was 5.99 percent for the week ended yesterday, down from 6.05 percent the week before. That should keep the rush to refinance mortgages and to buy new homes going. But analysts have said that this activity, though welcome, will not be enough to produce a robust recovery.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BOND MARKETS (86%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



738 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Seen as Safety Net, 9/11 Program Is Anything But 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
The financial assistance program in New York State that officials described as a kind of ultimate safety net for those who lost their jobs or had their property damaged because of the World Trade Center disaster has given grants to only a small fraction of the people who applied. Indeed, program officials admit they have not even reviewed more than half of the nearly 73,000 requests for aid that they received in recent months.
 Officials involved in the effort, known as the Individual and Family Grant program, said they had approved only 10,100 grants, and had yet to examine about 37,000 applications for emergency help. The average grant they had made was roughly $1,040 -- far short of the nearly $15,000 apiece that state officials had said would be available to applicants. 
 Both those figures -- the number of approvals and the money distributed -- fall below the rate and size of awards made by other states that have run similar joint programs to address emergencies in recent years, according to federal government statistics.
And in a measure of the program's troubles, seven members of New York's Congressional delegation this week beseeched officials with the Federal Emergency Management Agency -- administrators that they have criticized for months, calling them slow and incompetent in their relief efforts -- to take over the grant program's effort because the state is "ill-equipped" and "ill-prepared" to continue. FEMA finances 75 percent of the grants that the state approves.
State officials yesterday defended their performance, saying many of the backlogged requests had come in over the summer. Robert M. Lillpopp, a spokesman for the State Department of Labor, which administers the program, said that it was vital that the department verify the legitimacy of claims. He said the department had reviewed the applications more speedily at first and before the deluge of summer requests. Mr. Lillpopp suggested the criticism from Democratic lawmakers in Washington concerning the program was politically motivated.
A spokesman for Gov. George E. Pataki, who had announced the creation of the program in the weeks after the attack, did not return several calls for comment.
Some people who applied to the state program, however, said they experienced a mix of near-comic confusion and even hostility.
David Katzoff, who lost his personal computer in the collapse of the trade center, said he was erroneously offered a free steam cleaning of his apartment -- on the Upper East Side. When he pointed out the mistake to officials, he said, his application was rejected two weeks later.
Ilona Kloupte, a business analyst who designs software for fixed-income trading operations, received little of what she requested, even though she submitted photographs and receipts of all the personal property that had been destroyed in her Battery Park City apartment.
She said she cut short her search for help after she was asked for a letter from a doctor stating that she wore glasses, as well as a letter from her employer stating that she needed a computer for business.
"I said, 'This is not Bangladesh; this is the United States of America,' " said Ms. Kloupte, recalling a conversation with a Labor Department caseworker. "You are asking people who are financial professionals, who live in New York, who work on Wall Street, to provide written documents that you use your computers for work? What century are they living in?"
The response to victims of the Sept. 11 attacks, including government programs and private charitable efforts, has for a year produced a blend of great generosity, extraordinary effort and repeated problems with inefficiency and duplication.
In a certain sense, the state's program was offered as a kind of antidote to the confusion and frustration wrought by other efforts. Mr. Pataki, in announcing the program, said it was set up for those who felt abandoned, overwhelmed or excluded from the other relief efforts.
Initially, FEMA asked state officials to allow its administrators to run the program, said Brad Gair, FEMA's federal recovery officer in New York. But New York officials declined, confident of their experience handling upstate disasters.
In a Sept. 19, 2001, news release, Linda Angello, the state labor commissioner, said, "The State Labor Department is prepared to take whatever steps necessary to help New Yorkers recover as quickly as possible and return stability to their lives."
In the trade center disaster, the grant program was expected to cover home repairs and the replacement of personal property, along with reimbursement for air purifiers, vacuums and air-conditioners that needed replacing. It would also make grants to help people who had lost their jobs with transportation costs as they sought new employment.
But from the outset, the program had problems, according to applicants and lawmakers. Many applicants have questioned the state's insistence that they be rejected for a loan by the Small Business Administration in order to qualify. Others have complained that the documentation requirements are too onerous, since federal regulations say that "families do not have to provide real or property estimates or receipts."
"Our members have reported very spotty results, and a lot of confusion and miscommunication on the part of the administrators," said Kevin Curnin, a lawyer and co-founder of the From the Ground Up foundation, a coalition of nearly 300 small businesses in Lower Manhattan.
By April, seven months after the attack, the program had received 17,000 requests for assistance, but had granted only 3,500. Then came the summer, when a surge of applicants from Chinatown and other parts of Lower Manhattan sought reimbursement for air purifiers or the replacement of air-conditioners that coughed up dust. Many people were also given inaccurate information, via misleading advertising, that they would receive a new air-conditioner at no cost, Mr. Lillpopp, the Labor Department spokesman, said.
"They found themselves way behind in their ability to process," Mr. Gair, the FEMA official, said of the state's efforts.
As of yesterday, the New York program had offered $10.5 million to applicants, for an average of $1,039 per claim. By contrast, in the 27 different disasters in 23 states in the 2001 fiscal year, similar state-federal efforts averaged $16 million per disaster, and $2,586 per claim, according to federal statistics, with a 55 percent approval rating.
"Of all the problems we've seen in the delivery of aid, the failures of I.F.G. program are really the worst," said Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a Manhattan Democrat.
Recently, FEMA has pitched in to assist by taking over the state grant program's help line, contributing 150 employees and scanning 15,000 receipts and other documents to relieve the backlog of mail that had piled up in Albany. As a result, the grant program program processed 4,000 cases last week.
Two weeks ago, Mr. Pataki requested that the program's deadline of Sept. 30 be extended to Jan. 31. But on Thursday, state and federal officials announced that they had sliced two months off that request, to Nov. 30, because one year had been enough time to get reimbursed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ilona Kloupte, who still cannot live in her apartment, said her experiences with the state's Individual and Family Grant program left her frustrated. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DAMAGES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); STATISTICS (74%); TRENDS (73%); TERRORISM (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (73%)

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



739 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Energy Task Force Dispute Reaches a Federal Court
The dispute between the Bush administration and Congress over the disclosure of records related to the development of the administration's energy policy has reached federal court.
 Judge John D. Bates of Federal District Court in Washington is hearing the case, a fight over which branch of government's claim is paramount: the executive power to keep records confidential or the legislative right to investigate how money is spent. Page A1. 

Bail Is Accepted for Tyco's Ex-Chief
L. Dennis Kozlowski, left, the former chief executive of Tyco who has been charged with looting the company of $600 million, was allowed to remain free after a judge accepted $10 million in bail that was put up by his ex-wife, rejecting arguments that the money had been obtained through criminal activity. Mark Swartz, Tyco's former chief financial officer, was given until Oct. 11 to make bail. C2.

Ratings Lowered on Building Loans
A credit rating agency downgraded $4.5 billion in loans on commercial buildings, mostly in New York, because they were not sufficiently insured against terrorism. But the move was expected and should have little effect on the owners of the buildings or investors. C14.

Report Shows Economic Slowdown
The economy grew at an annual rate of 1.3 percent in the second quarter, a performance that was slightly stronger than previously thought but which still marked a dramatic slowdown from the beginning of the year. C2.

Trans Air Receives Loan Guarantee
American Trans Air said that the federal government had agreed to guarantee most of a $165 million loan it had asked for. The guarantee is part of a Congressional effort to help stabilize the airline industry after Sept. 11. C14.

Congress Hears Ex-Qwest Official
Philip Anschutz, the former chairman of Qwest Communications, talked by telephone with Congressional investigators who are looking into the financial troubles of the company, a spokesman said. The House Energy and Commerce Committee wanted to ask Mr. Anschutz about his sale of Qwest shares. C2.

Ford to Shield Police Car Gas Tanks
Ford Motor agreed to install shields around the gas tanks on 350,000 Crown Victoria police cars after at least a dozen officers were killed in fiery crashes. Ford's agreement to pay for the modifications and to study ways to make the cars safer came after police departments charged that the vehicles are prone to burst into flames in rear-end crashes. C2.

U.S. and Russia to Discuss Energy
Energy executives and government officials from Russia and America will meet next week to discuss energy cooperation at a time when concerns over the safety of world oil supplies have been heightened by the Bush administration's push for action against Iraq. C2.

Delta Doubles Its Projected Loss
Delta Air Lines said it expected to lose about $350 million in the third quarter, nearly twice as much as previously expected, because of sluggish revenue and demand. The announcement, which came a day after Delta told employees it was cutting another 1,500 flight attendant jobs and a trade group warned the industry could lose a record $8 billion this year, sent airline stocks tumbling. Delta shares sank 20.4 percent, or $2.34 a share, to $9.16. C2.

China Approves Equity Stake in Bank
China plans to allow Newbridge Capital, an American private equity firm that specializes in emerging markets, to buy a stake in the Shenzhen Development Bank, a step toward gradually opening China's financial sector to foreigners. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 7,701.45 down 295.67Nasdaq composite -- 1,199.16 down 22.4510-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.66% down 0.11The euro -- $0.9795 up 0.0027The dollar -- 122.84 yen up 0.19 Graph shows Delta Air Lines share prices since Sept. 2001.Yesterday: $8.69(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AIRLINES (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (85%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); CREDIT BUREAUS (67%); TERRORISM (66%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (60%); FIRES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CENTURYLINK INC (66%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (65%); FORD MOTOR CO (65%)

TICKER: CTL (NYSE) (66%); DAL (NYSE) (65%); FORDP (PAR) (65%); F (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (66%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (65%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (65%)

PERSON: PHILIP ANSCHUTZ (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



740 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Dockworkers Locked Out Of West Coast Terminals 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
West Coast port operators shut down cargo terminals from Seattle to Los Angeles tonight, in effect locking out unionized longshoremen. The terminals will remain closed until Sunday morning, company officials said.
 The lockout is the latest volley in a dispute between the companies and the longshoremen's union that could lead to a strike that could undercut an already stumbling national economy. 
 When members of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union showed up for the evening shift tonight, terminal gates were locked and staffed with armed security guards. The organization representing shippers said the 38-hour lockout was intended as a cold shower for the longshoremen. The shippers say work has slowed to a snail's pace since the contract with the longshoremen expired at the beginning of this month.
"This is how the union conducts its negotiations," said Jason Greenwald, a spokesman for Pacific Maritime Association, the operators' umbrella organization. "When the contract comes due, worker productivity plummets. The intent of our action here is to cool things off."
Calling the work slowdown a "strike with pay," Mr. Greenwald said productivity had fallen 25 percent to 90 percent, causing ships to miss their scheduled departure times, disrupting rail schedules and leaving valuable cargo sitting on docks.
The union issued a directive on Thursday for dockworkers to keep "in strict accordance" with safety regulations, but insisted it was a precautionary measure.
"You have more merchandise going through the terminals and the same amount of men handling it," said Steve Stallone, a union spokesman. "I wouldn't call that a slowdown. The companies have instituted the biggest speedup that ever happened, and it's dangerous."
Union officials in the Los Angeles-area harbors said there had been five deaths on the docks in the last five years, a barometer of the rapid pace and unsafe working conditions there.
Mr. Stallone said the lockout was a punitive step since the 10,500 rank-and-file members oppose the companies' demands for new technology on the piers without unionized job guarantees.
Shippers say the current system cannot accommodate the booming volume of cargo that moves through the ports, topping $320 billion last year and making Los Angeles the biggest port in the country. West Coast ports handle more than 40 percent of the nation's seaborne cargo.
"Who's being hurt by the lockout?" Mr. Stallone asked. "The workers will miss two shifts. It's like a little vacation. It's the companies' customers who are taking the hit. The small business people and the American economy as a whole."
Economists warn that if West Coast ports are shut down for more than a week, it would have a devastating effect on the already soft economy and it could throw Asian economies into a tailspin.
The Bush administration has said it is unwilling at this point to step into the negotiations. "We're monitoring this very closely," said Sue Hensley, a spokeswoman for the Department of Labor, repeating what she said on Monday, when shippers also had threatened a lockout.
It is peak season at the terminals because Christmas goods have begun to arrive. Saturdays are considered busy days, meaning that on Saturday at least a billion dollars of merchandise will be sitting on freighters anchored at sea. That could leave companies like automobile manufacturers that rely on so called just-in-time inventories with a crimp in their supply lines.
It remains to be seen how the conflict will be resolved, said Mr. Greenwald of the Pacific Maritime Association, but he promised that the docks would reopen on Sunday morning. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE CARGO HANDLING (92%); LOCKOUTS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (76%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%) STEVEDORING; LOCKOUTS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LONGSHOREMEN'S & WAREHOUSEMEN'S UNION (59%) PACIFIC MARITIME ASSN; INTERNATIONAL LONGSHOREMEN'S & WAREHOUSEMEN'S UNION 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (72%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF); SEATTLE (WASH)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



741 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Despite Big Issues, Primaries Prompted Only 17% to Vote 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Roiling life-and-death issues like war and terrorism and economic concerns were not enough to entice many people to the polls for midterm primaries this year, a new study shows.
 The Committee for the Study of the American Electorate, a nonpartisan group in Washington, found in the study unveiled on Thursday that the percentage of the voting-age population that went to the polls rose slightly this year, reversing a four-decade trend of declining voter participation. Even so, only 17 percent of the voting-age population cast ballots this year in primaries for major statewide offices in 37 states that had primaries for both parties. 
 Four years ago, the figure was 16.8 percent. Although the increase was slight, it was the first since 1966 for elections when the presidency was not at stake. 
The committee said that the increase in participation reflected an unusually high number of tight primary contests and that it came at a time when concerns over war with Iraq and economic problems have raised interest in politics. Still, the researchers noted, almost half the places with statewide primaries this year recorded their lowest turnout rates in history.
"I'm not encouraged," said Curtis Gans, the director of the committee, "because a two-tenths of a percentage point rise is not really significant." The results are "abysmal," he added, "and speak more to the level of disengagement rather than anything about re-engagement."
But Mr. Gans said it could portend a higher turnout in the November general election -- which will see many competitive governors races this year -- than in the 1998 contest, when 35.3 percent of the voting-age population went to the polls. 
He also noted that in two of the general elections in the last 40 years when turnout increased, 1982 and 1992, voters had serious concerns about the economy. Such anxieties generally are bad for the party in the White House, Mr. Gans said. But this year, that may be tempered by the debate over war with Iraq, which he described as so far being a "unifying issue favoring the Republicans."
"War talk tends to push the economy to a lesser or co-equal concern," he said.
Voter turnout has been falling steadily since the mid-1960's, raising concerns among some researchers like Mr. Gans that the trend could increasingly subject the political parties to the influence of extremist, but energized, movements. 
In 1966, according to Mr. Gans's figures, 33.6 percent of the voting-age population went to the polls in the midterm primaries, and almost half voted in November.
Though not encouraging, Mr. Gans's findings may be more optimistic than some other recent studies. 
A poll last month by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press found interest in local races flat, with no difference from four years ago, said Andrew Kohut, the director of the center, who added, "Interest in campaign news was about equal, and the intention to vote was about the same."
"I wouldn't make book on a civic renewal," Mr. Kohut said.
On average, according to Mr. Gans's findings, 9.1 percent of the voting-age population took part in 42 Democratic primaries this year, compared with 7.7 percent in the 38 Republican contests. (The figures do not equal 17 percent because that figure is drawn only from the 37 states that had statewide primaries for both parties this year.)
In the South, three states saw record turnout for Republican midterm primaries: North Carolina, at 6.8 percent of the voting-age population; Georgia, at 8.1 percent; and South Carolina, at 10.1 percent. Mr. Gans said those records were largely the results of the continued flow of voters from the Democratic Party to the Republican Party, a trend since 1965.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "UPDATE -- Primary Voting"A new study finds that turnout increased, but only slightly, in this year's midterm primary elections. Graph tracks average turnout of the voting-age population in states where both major parties held statewide primaries (37 states this year) from 1962 to 2002. (Source: Committee for the Study of the American Electorate)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TRENDS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



742 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; 
A Button for All Occasions, Including Brown vs. Harvard

BYLINE:  By IRA BERKOW

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I., Sept. 26 

 BODY:
For the biggest football game of the year against its staunchest and most bitter foe -- and for the game that could conceivably decide the league championship, even though it is only the second game of the season, for all this you could, in most quarters on the Brown University campus today, cut the tension with, well. . . .
 "Game? There's a game on Saturday? I did hear something. Harvard, right?" said Maceo June, a junior from Manhattan. 
 "I suppose there would be a game," said Kyle Bieneman, a junior from San Francisco. "It's about that time of year, isn't it?" 
And Jessica Gordon, a freshman from Miami, said she would not know which team Brown was playing until the day before the game. That is when the marching band distributes buttons of a disparaging nature that when worn by Brown fans are hoped to unsettle the opposing team. Last week, when Brown visited Towson, in Maryland, the message on the button was: "Got Crabs?"
Gordon's interest centered on the buttons. "I wonder what they're going to come up with for Harvard," she said. (It was recalled that the button for last season's Yale game said: "Is Our Children Learning?" It was based on a quotation from a Yale alumnus, George W. Bush.)
This is the Ivy League, after all, where even the athletes are known to attend class. Go around campus and there is not a single sign posted or flapping from a dormitory window that says big game -- or any game -- on Saturday. 
Penn State, Michigan or Nebraska this is not. Go around Thayer Street, the off-campus center of student activity, and there is no sign of a coming game, not in the window of the College Hill Bookstore, not in the Andreas Restaurant, not in the Garment District, a discount clothing store.
The game will not be televised. And the stone, 77-year-old Brown Stadium, with its cozy bleacher seats along each sideline (there are no end zone accommodations) that seat 20,000, will be, the best estimates have it, about half full for the game, a few thousand more than usually show up when the Bears are home. 
Ah, but go to the Olney-Margolies Athletic Center, where the football offices are, where the team dresses, watches game films and occupies the training room, and it is a horse of a different color.
"It's crazy, the tension is building, the coaches are hollering, 'Beat Crimson,' I can't wait for the game on Saturday," said Tim Cotter, a freshman defensive back from Scranton, Pa. "If we win, it'll be payback time from last year. I had heard about the big rivalry with Harvard before coming to school here, but I didn't know it could reach such a fever pitch."
And the Division I-AA standout receiver Chas Gessner said: "Even with the stadium half full, you'll be able to feel the tension. We'd like to be able to stick it to Harvard. Not only because they've won the last two against us, but because of their, well, attitude. Yes, arrogance. You know -- 'We're Hah-vahd.' But we have a lot of pride at Brown. So those two elements coming together can make for a pretty big collision." 
Gessner, a 6-foot-5, 220-pound history major from Hyattsville, Md., added that a sprinkling of students might recognize him on campus, and that even a few wished him luck on Saturday. "But I think athletics is looked down upon by a lot of the students and faculty," he said. "Like we're just jocks, and the football players are meatheads."
Harvard is the defending Ivy League football champion; Brown was third last season, behind Penn.
Harvard and Brown are rated the top two teams in the Ivy League, each with a candidate -- Gessner and receiver Carl Morris of Harvard -- for the Walter Payton Award, presented annually to the top player in Division I-AA football. 
Harvard is 1-0, coming off a 28-24 nonconference victory over Holy Cross. Brown is 0-1, having lost its opener, a nonconference game to Towson, 56-42.
"We're trying to recover from that game," Brown Coach Phil Estes said. "The coaches came back the day after and spent from 8 in the morning on Sunday to about midnight going over game films, and it's been close to the same the rest of the week, figuring out what we have to do to beat Harvard. I need to find out what kind of team we have. I believe we have a very strong team. I feel confident that Towson was not the defining moment of our season."
Linebacker Andrew Gallagher, an economics major from Allentown, Pa., and one of the team captains, was recruited by Harvard and Brown, and chose Brown because, he said, "The atmosphere was more congenial."
"It seemed the Harvard people were just trying to sell you the name," he continued. "And around campus, it's true that there may not be a huge interest in football, but I think everyone wants to beat Harvard -- in anything."
This will be the 102nd meeting in football between these two universities, dating from 1893, with Harvard holding a 71-28-2 advantage. Both teams have long and, in many cases, distinguished football histories. Brown, it happened, was the first team to play in an official Rose Bowl, in 1916. It had such outstanding players as running back Fritz Pollard, who became the first African-American professional football coach, in the 1920's; a quarterback and defensive back in the late 1940's named Joe Paterno (he still shares a team interception record); and Steve Jordan, Brown '82, a six-time All-Pro tight end for the Minnesota Vikings.
It is probably true that interest in football has declined in the Ivy League in the last 20 years or so, since the Ivy League was pushed from I-A and forced to accept a more or less minor league designation of I-AA. But for some, the passion in Ivy League football remains great, and pranks still abound.
A 1978 Brown alumnus, Dr. Marc Siegel, an associate professor at New York University Medical Center, recalls the year that Brown students stole the huge, six-foot-high drum from the Harvard marching band and drove back on Interstate 95 in a truck, gleefully beating the drum all the way. In retaliation, Siegel said, he heard that some Harvards sneaked into a Brown anatomy lab and stole an arm from a cadaver, went back up I-95, put a quarter for the toll in the hand of their acquisition, and left the amazed tollkeeper holding the unattached limb.
Oh, and the Brown button slogan for Harvard on Saturday is, "I received HONORS for WEARING this button," a swipe at the grade inflation of which Harvard recently has been accused.
Once again, it is getting down and dirty when the Harvards and the Browns clash.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Brown University band allows fans to wear its poison-pen humor with pride for each football game. (pg. D1); A Brown runner managing to break into the clear against Harvard in the 1952 Ivy League football season. The 102nd meeting of the two teams will be this afternoon. (Brown University); Linebacker Andrew Gallagher is one of the Bears' captains this season. (Brown University)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); CHILDREN (70%); BOOKSTORES (62%); RESTAURANTS (62%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (97%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); CHICAGO BEARS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



743 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: World Financial Officials Back New Debt Framework 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
The United States and the world's other leading industrial countries moved tonight to assuage global anxieties by declaring their willingness to help countries caught up in economic turmoil, mentioning both Brazil and Argentina as examples.
 In a statement issued by the finance ministers from the Group of Seven industrial countries, following a meeting here this evening, the countries acknowledged that some countries face "considerable challenges" and said they would support those who adopt strong policies to restore growth. 
 The statement also highlighted how worried the United States and others have become about the fragility of the world economy. And it reflected a renewed emphasis by the Bush administration on addressing the problems in poorer countries. 
The group emphatically praised Brazil, where investors have become increasingly panicked about the likelihood of a leftist victory in next month's presidential election. Brazil received a $30 billion loan package last month from the International Monetary Fund, but its currency has been sinking badly in the last few days.
But the finance ministers, led by Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, also voiced surprisingly warm support for Argentina, which has defaulted on more than $100 billion in loans and been widely criticized for failing to fix its fiscal problems.
" We welcome Brazil's continued commitment to sound policies and are ready to support Argentina, through the I.M.F., in the context of a sustainable program," the countries said tonight.
The communique fits into a broader pattern by the Bush administration to view the problems of developing countries as not only economic issues but also as part of a national security strategy, a marked departure in tone from the administration's initial tough-love approach.
Earlier this evening, Mr. O'Neill and the finance ministers from other industrial countries endorsed an important new international legal framework to help nearly bankrupt countries renegotiate loans with their creditors.
Under the plan, which will be endorsed publicly on Saturday, a country in financial trouble would be able to enter something akin to a bankruptcy proceeding. The key change is that a country could re-negotiate its loans if it wins approval from a majority of its creditors, and dissenting creditors would be required to go along.
At least part of the plan is fiercely opposed by big international banks like Citigroup and J. P. Morgan Chase, which fear being forced to renegotiate billions of dollars in loans they have made throughout Latin America, Africa and Asia. 
Under the plan, to be endorsed publicly on Saturday, a country in financial trouble would be able to enter something akin to a bankruptcy proceeding. The major change is that a country can renegotiate its loans if it wins approval from a majority of its creditors. At the moment, common practice allows any one dissenter to stop such renegotiations. 
The meetings, which began today, were organized mostly by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. They have drawn together financial officials and bankers from around the world.
They have also drawn thousands of protesters, and the police arrested 649 of them today, mainly on charges of disrupting traffic or holding demonstrations without a permit.
The protests had been widely expected. Some organizers had said they planned to "shut down" Washington today, but the crowds that showed up were smaller and more subdued than many had predicted.
The protesters, organized by a group called the Anti-Capitalist Convergence, marched and rode bicycles to a park several blocks from the White House. Carrying signs with messages like "End Corporate Greed" and "Drop Bush Not Bombs," their ranks included antiwar protesters, self-avowed anarchists and even a small, enthusiastic group of pagans.
Though some protesters openly hoped to disrupt normal business here, they were far outnumbered by the police. There was little violence, but security was so tight that police officers quickly began arresting people for holding rallies without a permit or disrupting traffic.
"It was a herding of cattle," said David Stewart, a 24-year-old protester who attended several events but was not arrested.
Between the large police presence and a relatively small turnout of less than 2,000 protesters, the demonstrations had far less effect on Washington businesses than the fact that thousands of workers stayed home to avoid possible trouble. 
But thousands of other protesters planned a series of other events on Saturday. Those have been organized by a broad array of environmentalists, labor unions and groups that view the World Bank and the monetary fund as agents of large multinational corporations.
Leaders organizing those events, many under a group called Mobilization for Global Justice, have registered most of their events with the police in advance and have vowed to keep their rallies nonviolent.
Inside the heavily barricaded buildings of the monetary fund and the World Bank, financial leaders focused heavily on the growing problems in Latin America. Argentina, which has already defaulted on more than $100 billion in loans, remains stalled in its pleas for more lenience from the fund. 
In Brazil, which accounts for 40 percent of the Latin American economy, the national currency has hit its lowest point since the fund offered a $30 billion bailout package last month.
There were far more signs of disagreement than agreement at the meetings. Rich and poor countries are increasingly at odds over what has come to be called the "Washington consensus," an American-style prescription for economic development under which financial assistance is focused on countries that support open markets, deregulation and prudent fiscal policies.
The World Bank stepped up its criticism of the United States and Europe on trade policy, accusing both of causing immense damage to poor countries by maintaining high barriers to agricultural imports.
The meetings are taking place at a time when economic anxiety runs high in many corners of the world. The global economy remains weak, stock markets are buried in pessimism, oil prices are rising amid fear of an American attack on Iraq and trade protectionism is on the rise.
The Bush administration, though occupied with its campaign against terrorists and with its efforts to topple Saddam Hussein in Iraq, is nonetheless devoting greater attention to the economic distress of poor countries.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demonstrators partially disrobed near a Gap store in Washington yesterday on the first day of meetings of international financial officials. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); APPROVALS (65%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) GROUP OF SEVEN; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; O'NEILL, PAUL (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (95%); ARGENTINA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) ARGENTINA; BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



744 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Ratings of Building Loans Fall on Insurance Worries 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
A leading credit rating agency said late yesterday that it had downgraded the ratings on $4.5 billion in loans on some of the most prominent office buildings in New York City because the buildings were not adequately insured against terrorism.
 But some bond traders said the decision was likely to have little effect on the owners of the buildings or investors. The traders said the market had been expecting the downgrades since the agency, Moody's Investors Service, expressed concerns about the lack of terrorism coverage at the end of May. 
 "These properties have been trading as if they were going to be downgraded for some time," said John B. Levy, the president of John B. Levy & Company, a real estate investment bank in Richmond, Va. "I don't think you'll see much movement in prices because of these downgrades." 
Moody's indicated that most of the loans that were downgraded were on buildings in New York. But it said loans on the the Bank of America tower in Seattle were also downgraded. Loans on office buildings and hotels in many other cities -- that were among pools of loans dominated by New York buildings -- were also downgraded. The downgrades ranged from one to three notches, but all remained within Moody's investment-grade categories.
Among those downgraded in New York were loans on Rockefeller Center, the Conde Nast Building at 4 Times Square, the headquarters of Citigroup on East 53rd Street and the Marriott Marquis Hotel in Times Square.
The downgrades reflect increased concerns by Moody's over the decision by the insurance industry to withdraw coverage for terrorism after the attacks on the World Trade Center a little more than a year ago.
Moody's said that even though security had been improved at some buildings and that they had obtained at least some terrorism insurance, the risk they faced was "incompatible with the highest levels of Moody's ratings."
The agency has taken the action as the White House and the insurance, banking and real estate industries are pressing Congress to provide assistance that would enable insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage at greatly reduced risk.
Both the House and the Senate have adopted legislation on terrorism coverage, but their solutions are radically different. The Senate would have the government pay most of the costs of a terrorist attack in excess of $10 billion while the House provides for long-term loans to insurers rather than an outright grant.
Before the attacks, which cost the insurance industry an estimated $50 billion, insurers had regarded terrorism in the United States as a remote possibility. They had provided terrorism coverage at no charge.
A few weeks after the attacks, some insurers began offering terrorism coverage in limited amounts at very high prices. More insurers have jumped in to take advantage of the high prices. But there is still not enough terrorism coverage to meet demand, and many businesses that could get coverage are unwilling to pay the price. 
The Bush administration and the industries that have been lobbying for help contend that the lack of terrorism coverage has been a drag on the economy. But they have been unable to muster evidence to prove their point.
In recent weeks, the Real Estate Roundtable, a trade group in Washington, has said that more than $10 billion in real estate deals have been delayed or canceled because of the terrorism insurance issue. But many others said that they thought that the insurance was one of many reasons blocking the projects.
"Everyone in the real estate business would certainly like it if we had government backing for terrorism insurance," Mr. Levy said. "But, that being said, the market is kind of going along without it."
As evidence of the strength of the real estate market, Mr. Levy said, more than $240 million in bonds were sold this week in a refinancing of an office tower in Midtown Manhattan. He said that many bonds had been sold involving packages of dozens of buildings, but that the $240 million deal was the first since the September attacks in which bonds were sold on a single building.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); BOND MARKETS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; INSURANCE; CREDIT; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE 

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%) SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



745 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Russia and U.S. to Discuss Collaborative Oil Ventures 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Energy executives and government officials from Russia and the United States will meet in Houston next week to discuss energy cooperation at a time when concerns over the safety of world oil supplies have been heightened by the Bush administration's push for action against Iraq.
 The conference is expected to include a who's who of leaders of the Russian oil industry as well as executives from American energy companies. The secretary of commerce, Donald L. Evans, and the secretary of the Treasury, Paul H. O'Neill, are also scheduled to take part. 
 The conference, a product of the summit meeting between President Bush and President Putin in May, was originally seen as a step to cement the new relationship between the countries after the terror attacks of Sept. 11. But it has taken on added significance since, as the United States seeks international support for a drive to oust Iraq's president, Saddam Hussein. 
Those efforts have set oil markets on edge: crude prices have risen 27 percent since mid-June. And the possibility of warfare that could disrupt oil supplies from the Persian Gulf has thrown a spotlight on the growing importance of Russian oil. 
The Russian companies say they will use the conference to propose projects that would bring more Russian oil more rapidly to world markets, especially the United States. Right now, almost the only export routes open to substantial shipments of Russian oil lead to Western Europe.
"The whole idea is to see whether Russia can become a marketer and a supplier of crude oil to the U.S.," said Simon Kukes, president of Tyumen Oil, Russia's fourth-largest producer. "It could reduce reliance of the U.S. on OPEC and lead to more stability in supply."
American officials have frequently mentioned Russia as a growing world energy supplier, as tensions have risen in the Middle East. Russian output has grown by about 7 percent annually in recent years, and now stands at 7.7 million barrels a day, comparable to that of Saudi Arabia, though Russia consumes about half of its production domestically. 
Speaking to reporters by telephone on Thursday, Mr. Evans said Russia was "a major contributor to the global energy supply, and I expect it to grow."
Mr. Evans would not say whether Russian business interests in Iraq would be a topic at the conference. But Russian companies say it ought to be. Russia has been one of Iraq's biggest trading partners since the United Nations allowed Iraq to start trading oil for food in 1996. Russian companies want assurances from Washington that an American-backed post-Hussein government will honor their contracts with the current regime.
"Everyone is just marking off their territory," said one influential Russian businessman, referring to Russian companies in Iraq. "It's a smart strategy -- signing contracts to get a head start."
Even so, few people here are confident that Russian companies will be able to return to choice projects in Iraq quickly after military action.
"No one here believes that the Americans will be able to install relative order soon," said Sergei Karaganov, the chairman of the board of the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy. "Very few people here are pro-Hussein. He is seen as a dictator and dangerous. But the cure looks more dangerous than the sickness."
Russian companies have said they can supply 10 percent of the United States' demand for imported crude, a figure many analysts dismiss as too optimistic. Indeed, most oil analysts say Russian exports could not offset a major disruption in flows from the Middle East, by far the world's largest oil-producing region.
Still, Russian output is growing, and companies need new markets since demand is stagnant in their existing markets in Europe.
The Russian industry hopes to reach 9.5 million barrels a day by 2010, and will need to expand export facilities extensively to handle the oil. The cramped pipeline network will have to be expanded, and new deepwater ports built to accommodate the supertankers used in the trans-Atlantic oil trade.
The Russian oil companies, led by Lukoil, the biggest producer, will tell the conference of a plan to build 930 miles of pipeline and new loading facilities in the northern port city of Murmansk as a new route for exports to North America.
"American companies could supply services and equipment and share financing costs for this project," said Gennady Krasovsky, a Lukoil spokesman. "This pipeline means more supplies for American consumers, and gives Russia more outlets for its crude."
But the Murmansk project will take years to complete, according to Mr. Kukes, who has called for more immediate steps. He said that international commodity exchanges could help by listing prices for Russia's benchmark oil grade, known as Urals (after the Russian mountain range), and the United States could help by leasing international oil storage facilities to Russian oil companies.
Russian politicians have applauded the new energy rapport between Moscow and Washington as a counterweight to OPEC. Russia is not a member of the cartel, and has sometimes defied the cartel's demands that it limit its exports in the interest of higher prices. 
"The ultimate goal of American and Russian energy cooperation is tearing down the OPEC monopoly," Grigory A. Yavlinsky, the leader of the liberal Yabloko Party, said in an interview. It will, he said, "take away the stick that they are using to terrorize everyone."
Russia's energy sector has only begun to attract a flow of foreign investment after years of unstable economics and bureaucratic hurdles, and there are few signs that major commercial deals will be struck at the conference. But the interest level is rising on both sides.
ChevronTexaco's chief executive, David O'Reilly, was in Moscow this week to survey energy opportunities in Russia. A spokesman for Russia's energy minister said ChevronTexaco had been invited to participate in developing new reserves in Eastern Siberia and the Russian Far East. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PIPELINES; SHORTAGES 

COMPANY: TNK-BP LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA; EVANS, DONALD L (SEC); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) TEXAS, USA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%) RUSSIA; HOUSTON (TEX); IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



746 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Beating Them To the Prewar 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Daniel Webster's ideas haven't held this much sway in the White House for a century and a half.
 But last week, when the White House was defending President Bush's new strategy of "pre-emption," the great orator's thinking about self-defense -- or at least a carefully selected slice of it -- was suddenly being thrown around the White House press room. 
 "Anticipatory self-defense is not a new concept," Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, told reporters the other day as she was explaining why pre-emption was replacing containment and deterrence as the foundation of American defense policy and serving as the justification for striking Iraq before Iraq strikes. "You know, Daniel Webster actually wrote a very famous defense of anticipatory self-defense," she said.
He did, but under circumstances Ms. Rice, a former Stanford University provost, might not want to delve into too deeply. President Bush, of course, employs the term to gin up support for a strike against Iraq before it could put weapons of mass destruction to use. Secretary of State Webster, in contrast, was attempting to calm down Americans demanding another war with Britain -- while chastising the British for not exhausting diplomatic alternatives before burning a civilian American steamboat on the Niagara River. 
It was only the latest example of how history, definitions and defense doctrines are being twisted to fit the Iraq debate. In its rush to convince Congress and the United Nations of the need to act quickly, the Bush administration has bandied about some very different concepts -- pre-emption, preventive war and Ms. Rice's "anticipatory self-defense" (a phrase Webster never used) -- as if they were the same thing. Experts in the field say they are not.
"There's a standard distinction here, and a very important one," said Michael Walzer, whose 1977 work "Just and Unjust Wars" has remained a staple of undergraduate courses on international conflicts. "Condoleezza Rice says we don't have to wait to be attacked; that's true," said Professor Walzer, now at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J. "But you do have to wait until you are about to be attacked."
As the debate has matured in recent days, Vice President Dick Cheney has crumpled the concepts together with the ringing phrase that the cost of inaction may be greater than the cost of action. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell has insisted there is nothing new here: American history, he suggests, is full of both pre-emptive and preventive military action. But his critics and purists about language offer another explanation: the fuzziness is deliberate. After all, it is hard to argue that Iraq is going to strike us in hours or days when Saddam Hussein has possessed chemical and biological weapons for years, and the British said this week that he is two to five years from having a nuclear device. Thus, attacking Iraq doesn't quite fit under the classic definition of pre-emptive self-defense.
Yet taking out his weapons, to say nothing of knocking off Mr. Hussein himself to make sure they are not rebuilt, more closely resembles preventive war. And that is a problem for the administration, because history and international law have frowned upon preventive war. It has often been used as an excuse for naked aggression.
Daniel Webster gave his own definition of a justifiable pre-emptive action. In 1837 a group of insurgents from Canada who wanted to overthrow British rule teamed up with some Americans eager to repeat the American Revolution on Canadian soil. In what can only be described as a half-baked scheme, they fired some cannonballs across the Niagara River, supplied by a steamboat called the Caroline. The Royal Navy burned it -- an act of pre-emption -- when it was docked on the American side of the river. One man died, but dramatic tales of far greater casualties (including victims swept over Niagara Falls) appeared in American newspapers.
It was five years and a new presidential administration before Webster and his British counterpart tamped it all down, settling the northern border of Maine along the way. In the series of diplomatic exchanges, Webster wrote that striking first against an enemy was acceptable only when the necessity of that self-defense is instant, overwhelming, and leaving no choice of means, and no moment for deliberation."
That is the definition Ms. Rice was alluding to, and the White House insists that the Webster definition applies to this day. But is the Iraqi threat instant? Is it overwhelming? And one question being asked at the United Nations this week: Is there really no moment for deliberation?
A legal adviser in the White House insists Webster's elements are present in the Iraq confrontation. The threat is overwhelming, because his weapons could be used against American allies, including Israel, or slipped to a terrorist for delivery here.
"The only area where we take a slightly more expansive view is in the definition of 'instant,' " the official said. "It's a growing threat, and by the time it becomes an instant threat it's too late."
To other scholars, though, Iraq looks less like a pre-emptive strike and more like a preventive war. And there the classic example is one the White House is unlikely to cite with approval: Dec. 7, 1941. Every schoolchild in Japan is taught that the United States-led embargo on Japan was slowly killing the country's economy and undermining its ability to defend itself. That's why Japan has kept a museum celebrating the heroes of Pearl Harbor.
The logic goes something like this, says Graham Allison of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. "I may some day have a war with you, and right now I'm strong, and you're not. So I'm going to have the war now. That, of course, was Japan's thinking, and in candid moments some Japanese scholars say -- off the record -- that the country's big mistake was waiting too long." But Mr. Allison notes that historically, preventive war has been regarded as illegitimate, because if countries act simply because rivals are getting relatively stronger, you end up having a lot of wars.
The other logic for preventive war, he notes, is reducing casualties. "The Israelis figured that in 1967, if they went first, they could blunt the consequences," he said. That mirrors Mr. Cheney's logic. 
Distinctions between preventive and pre-emption are not likely to slow down President Bush as he heads toward a confrontation with Baghdad. Time and again, he and his aides have argued that the old definitions of war don't apply. Terrorists don't send off the kind of classic warning signals -- massing troops on the border, for example -- that made it so much easier to detect an imminent attack in the past. 
What the White House seems to desire is a a new category, something halfway between pre-emptive action and preventive war. With one caveat: In Iraq's case they want to blend in a touch of regime change -- Washington's polite phrase for overthrowing a government -- so that they only have to do this once. As Professor Walzer notes, "That's what makes this neither pre-emptive nor preventive." 
Unfortunately, Daniel Webster didn't go there.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Japanese view the attack on Pearl Harbor as self-defense because a United States embargo was hurting Japan. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); HISTORY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); WORLD WAR II (66%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); RICE, CONDOLEEZZA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



747 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: President Fox Trying to Avert Oil Strike Throughout Mexico 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
President Vicente Fox, in one of the bitterest battles of his political life, worked today to stave off a strike at the government-run energy company, Pemex, the leading supplier of foreign oil to the United States.
 A walkout would cripple Mexico's economy and damage Mr. Fox's sometimes star-crossed presidency. 
 The 80,000-member oil workers union says it only wants a 15 percent pay increase. But Mr. Fox says the issue is slush funds, not salaries. He says he is "being blackmailed" by the union in its effort to protect its leader from corruption charges. 
For decades, political graft at Pemex greased the political machinery of Mexico. The union, founded along with Pemex in 1938, fed money and power to the Institutional Revolutionary Party, the PRI, which ruled for seven decades until Mr. Fox won election two years ago.
Now Mr. Fox's government is trying to prosecute the union's chief, Carlos Romero Deschamps, a PRI senator, and two other officials on charges that they helped funnel tens of millions of dollars from Pemex to the party before the elections in 2000.
The union, which has never gone on strike, is using all of its political muscle to stop that prosecution and prevent its leader from being stripped of the immunity he enjoys as a member of Congress.
A strike could shut every oil well, every refinery and every gas station in Mexico. Fox administration officials put the potential costs at $1.8 billion a day. Fears of a walkout helped push the peso to a four-year low against the dollar this week.
Pemex has been the leading supplier of oil to the United States in recent months, surpassing Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and Canada. It also provides all of Mexico's natural gas, nearly three-quarters of its electricity and more than a third of the money to run the government.
"Mexico is what is at stake," said Labor Minister Carlos Abascal.
So, in many ways, is Mr. Fox's presidency. He has staked much of his political reputation on rooting out corruption and reforming Mexico's economy, especially in the fields of oil, natural gas, electricity and transportation. 
While he has made significant strides in fighting chicanery, he has folded under pressure from his many opponents in Congress, where the PRI holds a plurality.
Chances are he will win this one. Public opinion polls show overwhelming support for him in the battle with the union and his anticorruption efforts against its leaders. That has compelled the PRI's leading politician, Roberto Madrazo, to warn publicly against the political and economic consequences of the strike.
As it now stands, many union members, too, are against the walkout, which is set for 12:01 a.m. Wednesday.
The United States has weighed in, supporting Mr. Fox's "attempts to root out corruption in Mexico, both in public and private sectors, to put an end to the impunity long enjoyed by corrupt officials," said the State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher.
The accused say the corruption charges, which have inevitably been called "Pemexgate," are a political witch hunt. Rogelio Montemayor, director of Pemex from December 1999 to December 2000 and the second leading suspect, has fled to Texas and defied Mr. Fox's government to extradite him. 
Mr. Romero Deschamps, the union leader, is trying to stop a congressional committee from stripping him of his immunity from prosecution.
Fox administration officials say the case rests largely on secret testimony by two campaign workers now in a federal witness protection program. The workers are said to have sworn that they withdrew tens of millions of dollars of Pemex money from a bank account held by the oil workers union in the weeks before the elections in 2000.
Luis de la Calle, an under secretary in Mr. Fox's Economy Ministry until April, said the way President Fox handled the case might affect Mexico's short-term economic stability, redefine relations between the president and his opposition and possibly determine who holds power in Congress after midterm elections in July.
"The government has no choice but to pursue the case now," Mr. de la Calle said. "If President Fox manages to avert the strike and continue with the prosecution on solid legal grounds, Pemexgate might become a turning point" in his presidency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); STRIKES (71%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LABOR; STRIKES 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (95%)

ORGANIZATION: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (94%) WEINER, TIM; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



748 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: The Jack Welch War Plan 

BYLINE:  By FRANK RICH; E-mail: frankrich@nytimes.com

 BODY:
You had to sympathize with poor Tom Daschle when he erupted on the floor of the Senate this week. After months of playing Clark Kent to George W. Bush's Superman, the guy looked as if he were about to become unhinged.
 Sure, the majority leader had a valid point. The president was wrong to say that the Democrat-controlled Senate is "not interested in the security of the American people" when everyone knows that Democrats care every bit as much about our security as Republicans do, patriotically ranking it second in importance only to their own job security. But Mr. Daschle's real frustration is his inability to change the subject of the national conversation. As the election nears, the Democrats want to talk about the economy, and every time they try, Mr. Bush drowns it out with "Iraq," a word so overpowering it can make grown Americans forget that their pensions are in the toilet. 
 What Mr. Daschle and the rest of his incoherent party have failed to articulate (along with so much else) is that this presidency is all of one consistent piece, whether it is managing our money or managing a war. Now, as pre-9/11, it reflects the C.E.O. ethos of the 1990's bubble at least as abundantly as the previous administration did the promiscuous 1960's. Two weeks before his inauguration, Mr. Bush invited Jack Welch, Ken Lay and a bevy of C.E.O.'s down to Texas, and he has always run the White House by the cardinal rules in their playbook. A chief executive can do no wrong. The directors (for which read Republicans in Congress) and outside directors (that would be the Democrats) are expected to give him a blank check and question nothing, including the accounting, while the grateful shareholders (the benighted voters) watch their portfolios bulge.
Now that we know that this model was a sham, with even Mr. Welch's General Electric under scrutiny for fiscal sleight of hand, you would think the Bush administration might revisit it. But instead it is following a discredited modus operandi more slavishly than ever, even as it prepares to fight a new war. "There is a fine line between arrogance and self-confidence," said Mr. Welch in "Jack: Straight From the Gut," his Bushian-titled memoir. "Arrogance is a killer." Mr. Bush and the C.E.O.'s around him seem as oblivious to this maxim as the C.E.O. who coined it.
The "fuzzy math" of this White House's tax cut and budget projections, chronicled by my colleague Paul Krugman from the start, is compounded daily rather than corrected. When we poor shareholders worry too loudly about our growing economic pain, the administration's antidote to our woes is not more honesty in bookkeeping but Ken Lay-style cheerleading. This month Mr. Bush's S.E.C. chief, Harvey Pitt, went so far as to tell Americans it is "more than safe" to get back in the market -- as the Dow plummeted for its sixth consecutive month. It's the same pitch Mr. Lay offered his employees in an e-mail -- "I want to assure you that I have never felt better about the prospects for the company" -- on the day Jeffrey Skilling resigned as chief executive in anticipation of Enron's collapse.
But this administration no longer cooks the books merely on fiscal matters. Disinformation has become ubiquitous, even in the government's allegedly empirical scientific data on public health. The annual federal report on air pollution trends published this month simply eliminated its usual (and no doubt troubling) section on global warming, much as accountants at Andersen might have cleaned up a balance sheet by hiding an unprofitable division. At the Department of Health and Human Services, The Washington Post reported last week, expert committees are being "retired" before they can present data that might contradict the president's views on medical matters -- much as naysaying Wall Street analysts were sidelined in favor of boosters who could be counted on to flog dogs like WorldCom or Pets.com right until they imploded. 
It's when such dishonesty extends to the war on terrorism, though, that you appreciate just how much a killer arrogance can be. Even with little White House cooperation in its inquiry, this month's Congressional intelligence hearings presented a chilling portrait of the administration's efforts to cover up its pre-9/11 lassitude about terrorist threats. Exhibit A was Condoleezza Rice's pronouncement from last May: "I don't think anybody could have predicted that these people would take an airplane and slam it into the World Trade Center . . . that they would try to use an airplane as a missile, a hijacked airplane as a missile." In fact, the committee reported, U.S. intelligence had picked up a dozen plots of a similar sort, over a period from 1994 to pre-9/11 2001, with some of them specifically mentioning the World Trade Center and the White House as potential targets. In the weeks before the attack the C.I.A. learned that in Afghanistan "everyone is talking about an impending attack." 
The past cannot be undone, and the intelligence committee found no smoking gun to suggest that the administration could have prevented the horror. But as we ready our own attack on Saddam Hussein, that's not the issue. What we need to know now is if any of these catastrophic failings in preparedness have been corrected in the year-plus since. The Congressional report says that Al Qaeda learns from its mistakes, flexibly adjusting its organization and plans. Do we?
While the administration says yes, the factual backup is again fuzzy. Certainly it's hard to be reassured by anything said or done by John Ashcroft, who in May 2001 testified to the Senate that "our No. 1 goal is the prevention of terrorist acts." We now know that he was just putting us on. On Sept. 10, 2001, he refused a F.B.I. budget request to add 149 field agents, 200 analysts and 54 translators to its counterterrorism effort. He did so despite the fact, unearthed by Congressional investigators, that the F.B.I. then had only one analyst monitoring Al Qaeda. 
The attorney general drives liberals crazy with his assaults on civil liberties, but we do have courts to sort that out (as they are already doing). What's truly frightening about Mr. Ashcroft is his incompetence. Even as we learned this week that the Justice Department's prosecutors are so sloppy that they mistakenly turned over 48 classified F.B.I. reports to Zacarias Moussaoui, Seymour Hersh reported in The New Yorker that the attorney general may have blown our chance to get useful Qaeda information out of Mr. Moussaoui by mismanaging his prosecution. 
Nor is there any evidence that our intelligence operations have been repaired over the past year. Coordination between the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. remains so spotty that as of the 9/11 anniversary Congress still had not received an updated, cross-agency accounting of Iraq's nuclear, chemical and biological arms capabilities. The administration's conflicting accounts of Saddam Hussein's nuclear prowess and his alleged links to Al Qaeda change by the day. "The dots are there for all to connect," said Donald Rumsfeld last week; this week Ms. Rice's spokeswoman said: "Have we connected those dots? No." 
Is our information about other, possibly even graver terrorist threats just as slipshod? Like it or not, we have a new, pre-emptive defense policy built on the principle that we strike the bad guys before they hit us. But how can it be executed if our intelligence is too inconsistent to determine which bad guys are first on the horizon? As Hezbollah militants mobilize in Lebanon and non-fuzzy math suggests that more Qaeda operatives are in Iran than Iraq, we have chosen a first-strike target, however thuggish, that may be tangential to the stateless, itinerant Islamic terrorism of the youthful Mohamed Atta generation.
But there's no point in debating that now. We are already on our way to Baghdad. It's our C.E.O.'s choice as the most profitable target for the next fiscal year, and we are assured that it will go better than some other C.E.O. pet projects, like Dick Cheney's "win-win" Halliburton-Dresser merger. What's more, it is cost free: the chief White House economic adviser, Lawrence Lindsey, said it won't even dent that fine economy the president keeps telling us he is so optimistic about. Maybe there will be some price in blood, but the battle plans leaked daily from the Pentagon never seem to offer any casualty projections, reassuringly enough.
Mr. Daschle and his fellow outside directors, meanwhile, have their own politically profitable business plan, to be executed as soon as they sign off on the war resolution. They will be all too happy to let Al Gore worry about Iraq in San Francisco, or wherever he is, while they whip up election-eve fears about something truly scary, like Social Security.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (74%); BUDGETS (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); TAX LAW (63%); BUDGET FORECASTS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); TOM DASCHLE (90%); JACK WELCH (89%); FRANK RICH (59%); PAUL KRUGMAN (53%) RICH, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



749 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE DEMOCRATS; 
Liberals Object To Bush Policy On Iraq Attack

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Liberal Democrats, led by Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, voiced reservations today about giving President Bush a free hand to attack Iraq before a new, tougher set of United Nations inspections is put into effect.
 While their objections could influence the wording, scope and timing of a Congressional resolution, those reservations are not likely to affect the outcome of any Congressional vote. It still appears likely that there will be at least 75 or 80 votes in the Senate to give the president the authority to attack Iraq. 
 At least one high-ranking Democrat, Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, said he planned to offer an amendment to the administration's proposed resolution on Iraq that would support military action only in conjunction with a United Nations force. But Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the minority leader, said such a provision would never be acceptable to the Republicans. 
The four highest-ranking leaders of Congress plan to meet by Monday afternoon to map out the resolution's course through the House and Senate over the next two weeks. A spokesman for Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate Democratic leader, said the Senate would probably put aside the stalled legislation on a domestic security department -- which is now essentially under a Republican filibuster -- until the resolution on Iraq is settled.
In a speech at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Washington, Senator Kennedy, still his party's most prominent liberal standard-bearer, said the White House had not made the case for a pre-emptive war.
"I do not accept the idea that trying other alternatives is either futile or perilous, that the risks of waiting are greater than the risk of war," Mr. Kennedy said, invoking his brother's restraint during the Cuban missile crisis. "Indeed, in launching a war against Iraq now, the United States may precipitate the very threat that we are intent on preventing -- weapons of mass destruction in the hands of terrorists."
Mr. Kennedy's position, in which he is joined by colleagues like Mr. Levin, Dianne Feinstein of California and Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, complicates the task of Mr. Daschle. He and other Democratic leaders had hoped to move the resolution quickly through the Senate to focus on his party's core message highlighting economic distress before the November midterm elections. But now Mr. Daschle's office expects more than 50 speeches on the resolution after it is formally introduced early next week, meaning that a vote may not take place until late in the week of Oct. 7. Many of those speeches will probably come from dissenting Democrats, and several of the most vocal opponents may introduce amendments to change or narrow the wording that the White House wants in the resolution.
The ultimate outcome of a resolution in the Senate is not in doubt, and the White House's language will be easily approved in the Republican-controlled House. But Mr. Daschle's stated desire to include as many Democrats as possible in the final vote means continued tinkering with the draft resolution issued by the White House late on Thursday, which itself has been changed to limit action to Iraq after complaints that an earlier draft was too broad.
During political appearances today, President Bush said he hoped the United Nations would force Saddam Hussein to comply with its resolutions, but he used tough language condemning him. "I'm willing to give peace a chance to work," Mr. Bush said at a political fund-raiser today in downtown Denver. "I want the United Nations to work. I want him to do what he said he would do.
"But for the sake of our future," Mr. Bush continued, "now's the time, now's the time. For the sake of your children's future, we must make sure this madman never has the capacity to hurt us with a nuclear weapon, or to use the stockpiles of anthrax that we know he has, or VX, the biological weapons which he possesses."
Republicans, meanwhile, warned that there was a limit to their patience if Democrats dragged out the resolution process.
"The Senate would look very bad if we wind up with a long amendment process that maybe leads to no conclusion and once again the Senate collapses in a pool of inability to produce anything," Mr. Lott said. "That is a danger. And there are those right now -- from what I hear from some of the Democrats, that would be fine with them. You know, they're willing to do anything to try to prevent the president of the United States having the basic authority he needs to deal with a dangerous threat to the American people."
Mr. Lott has said he was not willing to change the resolution much beyond the new language issued by the White House this week. But several senators said they were still unhappy with the draft, particularly because it would authorize unilateral action if the United Nations does not join an attack. Such an approach gives the United Nations an incentive not to join, Mr. Levin said, because other nations know the United States will do the job if they stand back.
"It's still a go-it-alone approach that lets the U.N. off the hook," said Mr. Levin, chairman of the Armed Services Committee. "We want the U.N. to be credible, so we should tell the world why it is so important that we act in concert." Having done so, he said, the United States could then come back and authorize unilateral action if the United Nations still fails to act.
Mr. Levin is planning to introduce language in the Senate that would authorize military action as part of a broader United Nations force. Mr. Kennedy's aides say he is not planning to write an amendment, but his speech today shored up the left wing of a party that has been reluctant to challenge Mr. Bush on national security policy.
Senate officials say there are probably 8 to 10 other Democratic senators who feel as Mr. Levin and Mr. Kennedy do, and who would probably vote against a resolution unless it is substantially changed. Another group of Democrats will probably vote for the resolution after some minor changes, and a third group, including many Southern Democrats, would be willing to support the president's language. Almost all Republicans are considered likely to support the president's draft, although a handful of moderates may want some wording changes.
Republicans made it clear today that they would strongly oppose the kinds of changes being asked by the liberals, in either the Senate or the House.
"Senator Kennedy offered the most thorough and cohesive argument for complacency so far," said Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the Republican whip. "The U.S. seeks broad support in the war on terror, but subcontracting our national security to the United Nations, as Senator Kennedy recommends, would be a foolish blunder."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Edward M. Kennedy yesterday before giving a speech critical of President Bush's policy toward Iraq. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); LIBERALISM (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); RANKINGS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TED KENNEDY (90%); TOM DASCHLE (78%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (59%); TRENT LOTT (58%); CARL LEVIN (58%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%) FIRESTONE, DAVID; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



750 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: VOICES; 
Increased Attention on Iraq Is Raising Anxieties, Too

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Okla., Sept. 27 

 BODY:
Carol Larkin, 51, is a Republican who served in the Navy and voted for President Bush, but do not get her started about a war with Iraq. "No, no, no," she said emphatically. "I think if we're going to be in Afghanistan, we need to finish that up. Why open two cans of worms when we can't close the first one?"
 Gesturing out the window at a town that offers gloomy evidence of the nation's economic slump, Ms. Larkin added that the main problem is at home. Working at a loan company, she hears daily from clients who cannot meet their payments because of layoffs and says she wonders why Mr. Bush is not talking more about that. 
 She does not have to go far to find a debate. Her friend and co-worker Kim Smith, 35, agrees that the economy is troubled, but unlike Ms. Larkin, she said she believes taking immediate action against Iraq is necessary to finish a job left undone by the Persian Gulf war. "If we had done our job then, would we be where we are now?" Ms. Smith asked. 
In places far from Washington's increasingly partisan war debate, Iraq is on the minds of ordinary people. The results of dozens of interviews conducted this week across the country suggest that the Bush administration is succeeding in focusing public attention on Iraq, though the president's election-year call for war is also raising anxiety and fear, even among many people who agree with him. 
The ailing economy, which Democrats believe is a potent issue in their quest to take control of Congress, was regarded by many people as a subject interwoven with the Iraq debate. Some people worried that a war could further destabilize the stock market, but others countered that past wars had resuscitated the economy. Many people agreed that the likelihood of war was one more factor leaving investors skittish. 
"A new part of my business is fear management, and Iraq comes up a lot," said Michael Johnson, 24, an investment adviser who was buying a sandwich in downtown Denver today as antiwar protesters and bystanders awaited the arrival of Mr. Bush at a Republican campaign rally. "My business used to involve telling people how best to invest their money, and now that's secondary to taking fear out of investing."
The sense of fear also extended beyond the economy, as some people groping with the uncertainties of the world after Sept. 11 expressed doubts about whether the country could emerge from Iraq with a clean victory, despite the military's technological prowess. "My biggest concern is that we won't be successful," said Paul Foltz, 49, who lives in Indiana but works in downtown Chicago.
"We already proved that when we did it in the past," he said, drawing comparisons with the earlier war against Iraq and its president, Saddam Hussein. "Once again we'll end up bombing children's hospitals, and he'll still end up getting away." 
But Mr. Bush's resolve in pushing for action appealed to many people, including some Democrats who had voted for Al Gore in the 2000 presidential election. Dan Ernst, 30, a graduate student who lives in Brookline, Mass., said efforts by Mr. Hussein to acquire nuclear weapons and circumvent international scrutiny more than justified action to remove him.
Mr. Ernst said politicians should have a healthy debate, but he said he was disappointed in Mr. Gore's speech this week criticizing Mr. Bush's Iraq policy.
"Gore revealed himself as a disappointment, an opportunist willing to put the world's interest at stake for his own political existence," Mr. Ernst said. "I think he's just creating an opposing viewpoint so he doesn't fade out of the political scene. It's sad to me, and I voted for Gore."
Here in Ottawa County, along the borders of Kansas and Missouri in roughly the geographic center of the country, voters divided almost evenly in 2000 between Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore, with Mr. Gore carrying the county by a fraction of a percentage point. Interviews along aging Main Street in Miami (pronounced my-AM-uh) elicited a range of opinion, from steadfast support for military action to outright opposition. Some people accused the president of escalating war talk as an election-year distraction from the ailing economy. Others said the United States must remove Mr. Hussein to ensure security in the future.
The talk, though, was often more personal than partisan. Patty Rose, 47, a legal secretary, said that she did not want a war with Iraq, and that the Mr. Bush should continue to focus on Al Qaeda. Three of her children are in the military, including a 26-year-old daughter who is an Air Force sergeant just returned from three months in Afghanistan and the Middle East. Mrs. Rose worries about what would happen to her 5-year-old granddaughter if her mother returned to the Middle East for war and did not come back.
"I just worry about her all the time," Mrs. Rose said of her granddaughter.
Mrs. Rose's boss, Richard D. James, 43, staunchly supports action against Iraq, even though he admits he worries about his own two sons, ages 19 and 22, and the possibility that the draft may be reinstated or that they may enlist.
"I think there is a generation that believes that a war will be fought with push buttons and bombs dropped from airplanes and that there won't be a need for 18-year-old ground troops," said Mr. James, a lawyer and a Republican. "I disagree with that. I think it will be fought with 18-year-old kids with rifles with knives on the ends of them."
Still, Mr. James said delaying action against Mr. Hussein would solve nothing. "The timing is never right," he said. "What will they accomplish if we wait? If we wait five more years in the future, he's got a better ability to defend himself, and it's some other dad with infantry-age sons."
Once a manufacturing hub, Ottawa County has one of the state's highest unemployment rates, which has left some people here resentful.
"Everybody is broke and getting broker," said Jerry Orcutt, 65, who operates a store, Discount Jewelry. "People come in here all the time, and they haven't got $20. They want to sell their coins or their rings so they can get their diaper money or gas money."
Mr. Orcutt predicted that an Iraqi war would spike gasoline prices and further harm the economy. "Now those big shots who want to go to war, they should go over there and shoot," he said. "But they send the little guy."
Brent Brassfield, 44, a district manager for a shoe store chain, agreed. "I feel like the middle class built this country, does most of the work, pays most of the taxes -- and there seems to be no relief for the middle class," he said.
Of the president, Mr. Brassfield, a Democrat, added, "You wouldn't see him so anxious to go to war if the economy was better."
A few doors away at a bookstore and coffee shop with no customers inside, Lynn Walsh, 42, who voted for Mr. Bush, conceded that she did not follow the fine points of the political debate that closely. She is one of about 20 women who formed an investment club three years ago and have seen their original $11,000 stake halved by the stock market slide, yet she said she remained optimistic about the economy. What worries her, though, is the prospect of a war, which she said makes her "heartsick."
Ms. Walsh said she and her husband have lately been reading Civil War history, including tales of the march of General Sherman through the South. She recalled a passage about Sherman imploring his men to fight, saying, "Charge, men, charge, for God's sake, charge."
"This is how many years ago?" Ms. Walsh said. "And here is Bush pretty much saying the same thing: Go and charge men, charge."

GRAPHIC: Photos: DIFFERENCE OF OPINION -- Kim Smith, left, and Carol Larkin, co-workers in Miami, Okla., disagree about immediate action against Iraq. Ms. Larkin says the economy is more important; Ms. Smith thinks a job is undone. (Evan Semon for The New York Times); PLAYING POLITICS -- Dan Ernst, 30, a graduate student in Brookline, Mass., says that Iraq policy needs to be debated but that Al Gore's criticism of President Bush this week was opportunism. (Jodi Hilton for The New York Times); IT'S STILL THE ECONOMY -- Jerry Orcutt, who buys and sells used jewelry and coins in Miami, Okla., fears the economic fallout of a war in Iraq. "Everybody is broke and getting broker," he said. (Evan Semon for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); LAYOFFS (70%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (66%) PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (58%) YARDLEY, JIM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); GULF STATES (58%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



751 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL; 
Investor Group Purchases Celtics

BYLINE:  By FOX BUTTERFIELD

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
In a surprise move, the storied Boston Celtics were sold today for $360 million to a partnership that includes executives at two local investment firms.
 The primary new owners are Wycliffe K. Grousbeck of Highland Capital Partners, a venture capital company, and Stephen Pagliuca, a managing director of Bain Capital, a private equity and leveraged buyout firm. One of Bain Capital's former executives is Mitt Romney, who is now running as the Republican candidate for governor of Massachusetts. 
 The new owners also include Grousbeck's father, H. Irving Grousbeck, who was a co-founder of Continental Cablevision. The new owners said they intended to bring in more partners. 
Today's sale was announced by Paul Gaston, whose father, Donald F. Gaston, bought the Celtics 19 years ago for $18 million. The Gaston family owns a majority of the Celtics, a publicly held company traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Most of the other investors, whose shares were included in the purchase price, are fans who own a share or two that they may put on their wall for sentimental reasons.
The sale of the Celtics, the most decorated franchise in N.B.A. history with 16 championships, is subject to league approval. The Celtics are the second professional team in Boston to be sold in the past year; the Red Sox were sold last December as part of a $700 million deal.
In the 1990's, the Celtics fell on hard times. But in earlier years they dominated the N.B.A. year after year, led first by Coach Red Auerbach and with Hall of Famers like Bob Cousy, Bill Russell, Larry Bird and Kevin McHale.
The negotiations for the sale were such a well-kept secret that Pagliuca said at a news conference this afternoon at the Celtics' practice facility in Waltham, Mass., that he told his wife about it only this morning. 
Pagliuca and Wycliffe Grousbeck, who attended the hastily arranged news conference, described themselves as lifelong Celtics fans. Grousbeck said he was so excited about the purchase that he felt "like the tooth fairy" had come to visit him.
Pagliuca said he did not envision any major changes in the Celtics for this season. "We have a fantastic management team in place, all the way down from the general manager to the head coach," Pagliuca said.
Jim O'Brien, the Celtics' coach, who led them to the Eastern Conference finals last season before losing to the Nets, watched the news conference from the balcony of the practice center. 
Some fans questioned the purchase price of $360 million.
"I just don't understand the economics," said Stephen Doran, a lifelong fan who lives in suburban Hingham, Mass. "If it's just a fantasy thing, that ship passed a long time ago."
Unlike most N.B.A. and other professional sports teams, the Celtics do not own the arena in which they play, the Fleet Center. It is owned by the Boston Bruins, who are in turn owned by the Delaware North Corporation, and the Bruins receive all the revenue from concessions, parking and advertising at the Fleet Center.
So the Celtics' only sources of revenue are their ticket prices, already among the highest in the N.B.A., and their share of local and national television contracts.
But Larry Moulter, a sports consultant who helped arrange the construction of the Fleet Center to replace the old Boston Garden, said the new owners might have seen some advantages. The Celtics do not pay any rent for their lease at the Fleet Center, their cash flow is good and the N.B.A. is in good shape with no labor disputes on the horizon.
Moreover, Moulter said, Commissioner David Stern envisions turning the N.B.A. into a global franchise in a few years, which could greatly increase the worth of current teams.
Moulter suggested that the sale to the new owners might also benefit the Celtics and their fans because Gaston was very bottom-line oriented. After the end of last season, he was unwilling to re-sign one of the Celtics' most valuable players, forward Rodney Rogers, because the signing might have forced the team to pay the league's luxury tax.
Instead, the Celtics traded for another big man, Vin Baker of the Seattle SuperSonics. In the process, they traded away their point guard, Kenny Anderson. Rogers, meanwhile, signed with the Nets.
M. L. Carr, a player on the Celtics' last championship team, in 1986, and later their coach and general manager, said of Gaston, "Paul is smiling all the way to the bank.
"He has always looked at the Celtics as a business," Carr said on the local radio station WEEI, "and now he cashes out at this number." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HIGHLAND CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON CELTICS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (82%); BOSTON RED SOX (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (76%); JAMES J O'BRIEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



752 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

White House Proposal Puts Onus on Iraq
The Bush administration has drafted a plan that essentially declares that Iraq has already violated its obligations to the United Nations and authorizes the use of military force if Iraq interferes with weapons inspections, according to European and American officials. A1

Palestinians Rally in Gaza
Israel acknowledged that a strike had failed to kill its intended target, a bombmaker for Hamas. Chanting for vengeance, thousands of Palestinians rallied in Gaza. Meanwhile, Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, remained under siege in Ramallah. A3

Curfew on Palestinians
Israel placed a total curfew on the Palestinians in Hebron in order to allow thousands of Jews to make the annual pilgrimage to the Tomb of the Patriarchs, revered by Jews and Muslims as the burial place of Abraham. There was violence, and some felt the week's tourism was a needless provocation. A3

Afghan Warlords Fight Again
Fighting has broken out between rival commanders in a mountainous area in northern Afghanistan, just weeks after the main factions agreed to disarm their men and prevent further clashes. Security officials played down the incident, saying it was a local dispute and denying reports of any casualties. Reuters reported that 17 people were killed. A11

Mexico's Oil Union Crisis
President Vicente Fox of Mexico worked to stave off a strike at the state-run energy company, Pemex, which is the leading supplier of foreign oil to the United States. A walkout would cripple the economy and damage Mr. Fox's often troubled presidency. A4

Brazilian Candidate Confident
Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, the favorite in presidential elections in Brazil, saw his chances further strengthened when a faction of a crucial political party in Rio de Janeiro state threw its weight behind his left-wing campaign, abandoning the ruling party's candidate. A7

Deadly Ferry Accident
More than 760 are feared dead after an ocean ferry capsized off West Africa in a fierce gale. Searches recovered 88 bodies and reported seeing others trapped inside the hull. Only 32 survivors were reported. A8

NATIONAL A12-15

Liberals Are Reluctant To Back Bush's Iraq Policy
Liberal Democrats, led by Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, voiced reservations about giving President Bush a free hand to attack Iraq before a new, tougher set of United Nations inspections is put into effect. A1

Cheney and Congress in Court
A federal judge heard arguments from lawyers for Vice President Dick Cheney and Congress's General Accounting Office over which branch of government's claim is paramount: the executive power to keep records confidential or the legislative right to investigate how public money is spent. A1

Salmon Deaths Provoke Anger
The death of more than 10,000 chinook salmon has pressured the Bush administration to release emergency water to fish trapped in warm, shallow pools of the Klamath River, reversing a six-month-old decision that favored farmers. A1

Arguing Over Wiretaps
The Justice Department has accused the nation's super-secret wiretap court of improperly trying to "micromanage" the workings of the executive branch, possibly in violation of the Constitution. A11

New Rules Grant Fetus Rights
The Bush administration issued final rules allowing states to define a fetus as a child eligible for government-subsidized health care. A13

Western Ports Under Lockout
West Coast port operators shut down cargo terminals from Seattle to Los Angeles, in effect locking out unionized longshoremen. A15

Boston Church Secures Loan
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston secured a $12.5 million mortgage loan from the Knights of Columbus in an effort to maintain its daily operations and charitable organizations. A12

Beliefs A15

SCIENCE/HEALTH

West Nile Virus in Breast Milk
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said that women with documented West Nile virus infections may wish to consult with their doctors about breast-feeding after traces of the virus were found in the breast milk of a new mother. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

9/11 Assistance Program Flooded by Applications
The Individual and Family Assistance program, described by officials as a safety net for those who lost their jobs or had their property damaged as a result of the World Trade Center disaster, has given grants to only a fraction of the people who applied. Program officials say they have not even reviewed more than half of the nearly 73,000 requests for aid they have received. A1

Kennedy Shuttle Train Derails
A futuristic three-car elevated train, the precursor of a $1.9 billion automated light rail system that is expected to carry 32 million air travelers a year to and from Kennedy International Airport, derailed on a test run, killing its operator. A1

Street Plan Faces Opposition
Planners have proposed that West Street should be buried and covered with a tree-lined pedestrian promenade. But a growing number of Battery Park City residents fear that a decade-long construction project will isolate their neighborhood. B1

ARTS & IDEAS B7-16

SPORTS D1-7

Pressure on Augusta Continues
The National Council of Women's Organizations sent letters to seven members of Augusta National Golf Club to press the club, the host of the Masters, to admit women by next year. D3

Boxer Disputes Test Result
The executive director of the Nevada Athletic Commission said that Fernando Vargas, left, the two-time junior middleweight champion, had tested positive for a steroid after his loss to Oscar De La Hoya two weeks ago. Vargas disputed the claim. D6

OBITUARIES A18

Warren E. Burnett
A whiskey-swigging, Shakespeare-quoting Texas lawyer who achieved near-legendary status by defending the powerless, he was 75. A18

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Sharp Drop in Stock Prices
Stocks plunged as investors were served earnings disappointments and weak economic data. The Dow was down 295.67 points, or 3.7 percent, to 7,701.45. C1

Vegas Casino to Go Online
MGM Mirage plans to start an Internet casino, the first American casino to offer table games to gamblers on home computers. C1

Former Tyco Chief Makes Bail
L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former Tyco International chief executive charged with looting $600 million from the company, was allowed to remain free while awaiting trial after a judge accepted $10 million in bail put up by his ex-wife. C2

Salomon Seeks Settlement
Officials from Salomon Smith Barney met enforcement staff members at the Securities and Exchange Commission to propose a settlement of the investigation of conflicts of interest between analysts and investment bankers. C1

Russians Coming to Discuss Oil
American and Russian energy officials will meet in Houston next week to discuss energy cooperation as concern over world oil supplies rise with the possibility of a war against Iraq. C2

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: More than one option on Iraq; giving the designers a chance; the schools' new carrot; read this slowly.

Column: Frank Rich.

Bridge B15
TV Listings B16
Crossword B12
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); INSPECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HAMAS (76%); MEN (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ACCOUNTING (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); WATER RIGHTS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); RELIGION (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (67%); JUDGES (63%); FERRIES (62%); LAWYERS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); HAMAS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); TED KENNEDY (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (50%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (76%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); BRAZIL (93%); MEXICO (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



753 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Mrs. Clinton Isn't Focus Of Inquiry, U.S.O.C. Says 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WILSON 

 BODY:
The United States Olympic Committee yesterday clarified the scope of its review of a conversation between Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and a member of the organization's site selection committee, emphasizing that Senator Clinton is not under investigation.
 Rather, the organization is reviewing whether the conversation was the result of an improper act by the bid committee for New York City, said Mike Moran, a spokesman for the United States Olympic Committee. 
 "Our scope of interest is with the bid committee alone. Not with Mrs. Clinton," Mr. Moran said. 
Also yesterday, the Olympic committee said that it had erred in stating that the selection committee member, Anita DeFrantz, had talked with Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, about San Francisco's bid for the 2012 Summer Games.
"Senator Feinstein has not spoken to Ms. DeFrantz about the choice of an Olympic city," said Howard Gantman, a Feinstein spokesman. "She has not spoken to Ms. DeFrantz at all, nor to anyone on the Olympic selection committee." 
Bid committees on both coasts are tiptoeing around strict new rules of proper contact between prospective Olympic cities and the people who decide where the Olympics will be held. The clarifications yesterday followed news accounts that said Mrs. Clinton was under investigation.
"We do not investigate United States senators," Mr. Moran said. "The only thing we're looking at," he said, was whether there were "any improper activities by the bid committee."
Contact is restricted between a city's bid committee and the Olympic officials who vote on host cities.
Senator Clinton invited Ms. DeFrantz to the special joint meeting of Congress in New York City on Sept. 6, and made the case for holding the 2012 Summer Games in the city as she and Ms. DeFrantz rode to Federal Hall together.
This week, questions were raised as to whether the pitch was inappropriate. Mr. Moran said it was not. "The only concern we have is if the bid committee is somehow involved in this," Mr. Moran said.
A spokeswoman for Mrs. Clinton, Karen Dunn, said the senator was unaware of the rules restricting contact with members of the Olympic committee. Mrs. Clinton's office has said she invited Ms. DeFrantz at the request of Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, who was a founder of NYC2012, the city's bid committee.
Laz Benitez, a spokesman for NYC2012, said he could not comment.
The Olympic committee is also looking into whether Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg violated its rules banning cities from promoting their Olympic campaigns by speaking about his desire for New York City to play host to the Games while he was in Greece last week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%) OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIC GAMES (2012) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (95%) UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (88%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) WILSON, MICHAEL; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (58%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002 



754 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 111

LENGTH: 2323 words

HEADLINE: CARS; 
Toward A More Perfect Accord

BYLINE:  By Jamie Kitman; Jamie Kitman is the New York bureau chief of Automobile magazine.

 BODY:
Not long ago, officials of the American Honda Motor Company summoned a handful of automotive journalists, under conditions of relative secrecy, to a remote and sparsely populated town along Ohio's Muskingum River for an advance drive in the new 2003 Honda Accord. Holed up between test drives in a country inn, the captive audience braved the blizzard of technical facts and demographic insight that blankets all car debuts. Then came some brandspeak and a Power Point presentation that painstakingly reviewed the Accord's sales history, particularly relative to the Toyota Camry. 
 The big news was that last year the Accord snatched the title of America's top-selling passenger car back from Toyota. Honda sold 414,718 Accords to Camry's 390,449. What's more, the Honda marketing bosses hastened to point out, if you subtracted discounted-to-the-point-of-profitless fleet sales to car rental agencies, you would find that Accord had actually beaten Camry throughout most of the 1990's. As for private citizens spending their own money, the Honda team concluded triumphantly, the Accord was No. 1, 9 years out of the last 10. 
 Whether or not you agree with Honda's math, the most popular American family car is now, and has been for some time, a Japanese transplant -- a Japanese model assembled in a Japanese-owned plant according to time-honored Japanese industrial principles, but designed to American tastes and built by American workers on American soil. 
Honda and Toyota and Nissan have so completely filled the family-sedan niche that among them they now operate 13 full assembly plants in North America and control 23 percent of the American market. And because the competition among them is so fierce, they are now making cars that are not only a great value for their price, but are also so well engineered that they perform as well as significantly more expensive cars.
To understand how the Accord became America's best-selling family car, you first need to understand what has happened to the American-built American family car. Last year, Americans bought close to 20 million cars. Chevrolet sold 900,000 new cars, and 208,000 of them were Impalas, their largest sedan. (Compare this with the 1.7 million full-size Chevrolets sold in 1965, when the market was about half the size.) Sales of all seven of Ford's car models last year taken together also failed to crack the million mark.
These sales numbers reflect the wholesale shift in the habits of the American car buyer that has taken place in the past two decades -- the explosive growth in S.U.V. sales, the steady rise of pickup trucks as personal transportation and the emergence of the minivan in the 1980's. As S.U.V.'s and pickups piled up record profits for domestic carmakers in the 1990's, there was no clear incentive for the Big Three to invest in building a better sedan. With few exceptions, Detroit diverted resources to the development of ever-pricier, ever-more-appealing S.U.V.'s and pickups, keeping profits buoyant even as overall market share was falling. G.M.'s U.S. market share has dropped most precipitously, to nearly half of what it was in 1980. Yet executives say that sacrificing market share for profits is their preferred business strategy.
Long before the American makers had ever thought of using the words "sport" and "utility" together, Asian brands were fighting to capture a piece of the American car market. Arriving on these shores in the late 1950's and early 1960's with some less-than-stellar offerings, the Japanese firms, with no brand heritage to fall back on, languished initially. The first step to selling cars in America, they soon discovered, was to build reliable ones at prices lower than American car buyers expected. The second step was to anticipate the needs of the American driver. "They started at the bottom," says Daniel Gorrell, a vice president of Strategic Vision Inc., a San Diego-based market research firm that does business with many auto companies. "But they did some things right and got lucky. The baby boomers, the largest car-buying cohort ever, were just starting their car-buying lives when Honda arrived, and the more educated were drawn to them because of attributes like their small engines and their environmental stance." Finally, Honda invested over the long haul, cutting fewer corners and patiently working toward a future where the cost of developing and building better products would be rewarded with higher sales.
"They established a reputation among a core group of owners who are very concerned with having a vehicle they can trust," Gorrell says. "These are people who are not into cars, per se, but they seek reliability and assurance. They may have passion, but their passion resides elsewhere than their car."
More than a quarter-century has passed since the first Honda Accord touched down in 1976. A smaller and altogether more humble car than the 2003 model, the original Accord nonetheless marked a bold step for Honda, being a size- and luxury-class up from the subcompact Civic, which made its debut in 1973. 
Before the introduction of the Civic, Honda was known here only as a maker of small motorcycles. Its automotive efforts before the Civic were tentative: too puny, too buzzy and too fragile for most American motorists. 
The Civic, by contrast, was a sturdy small car that provided unexpected spaciousness in a clever package. It stood out in a small-car universe of Old World VW Beetles, occasionally exploding Ford Pintos and often self-destructing Chevy Vegas. Inexpensive and hugely economical on gas, it arrived on the market just in time for the 1973 energy crisis, then sold beyond expectations and, to boot, met in advance many of the coming emissions regulations that Detroit was fighting at the time. The Civic established Honda as a maverick maker of fine, environmentally sensitive automobiles.
If the Civic represented quality, reliability and thrift, the Accord added sophistication. Americans took quickly to the car, and in November 1982, Honda built its first North American plant in Marysville, Ohio, the sole purpose of which was to assemble Accords. Employing 5,800 people today, the 3.5-million-square-foot facility represents a $2.3 billion investment for Honda and is capable of turning out an impressive 440,000 Accord coupes and sedans each year, as well as the related Acura 3.2 TL and CL. A Honda factory in East Liberty, Ohio, can build 240,000 Civics each year, while a plant in Alliston, Ontario, produces Honda Odyssey minivans and the Honda Pilot and Acura MDX S.U.V. More North American factories seem a certainty.
Essential to Honda's success has been its relentless refinement of a basic formula: make a space-efficient, front-wheel-drive sedan with its motor mounted sideways (a design first employed in the Austin Mini in 1959 and popularized in America by the Volkswagen Rabbit) to free up as much room as possible for passengers. 
The first Accord was available only as a two-door hatchback. Two years later, a four-door version with a real backseat and a traditional trunk was introduced. This model was to become the heart of the Accord line.
Minimalism, an elegant lightness, nothing larger than it has to be -- these are the basic Honda precepts. By American standards the first Accord was small, but Honda learned quickly that size does matter here. Each succeeding generation of Accord -- the 2003 model is the seventh -- has grown slightly larger (or roomier in the interior) to better please American tastes while maintaining an overall minimalist design. 
But the car has not just been made lower, longer and wider. Each new generation is safer, faster, cleaner and more economical than the previous version. The 2003 Accord, for example, has a standard antilock braking system now, even in its lowliest iteration, the $15,800 DX model. "For Honda," says Jim Hall, an industry analyst with AutoPacific Inc., in Southfield, Mich., "the Accord was the top of their passenger-car line. It was their Cadillac Deville. Just as G.M. wouldn't skimp on the Deville, Honda wasn't going to skimp on the Accord. It's that attitude that led to the car they have now."
By contrast, the Chevrolet Cavalier, a fairly fuel-efficient car, has been significantly redesigned only once since 1982. Despite a low list price of $14,900, G.M. has for years been forced to offer a rebate on the Cavalier to keep it selling in volume, which it must do to help the company meet government Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards while it continues to sell large volumes of thirsty trucks and sport utility vehicles. During this same period, the Accord has been back to the drawing board for total makeovers six times. 
"The Accord started out as a Civic on steroids," Hall says. "Honda, if they wanted to, couldn't have built a traditional midsize car in those early years -- it wasn't in their tool kit. But the Accord's strength is that it has always been the odd man out, a tad smaller on the outside than the Camry and a lot smaller than the domestics, and that kept it out of direct competition. It was able to evolve into just the kind of midsize car people want." 
Charlie Baker, a former Saturn and Pontiac engineer, is the chief project engineer of the new Accord and the first American to be put in charge of a worldwide product by a major Japanese car company. In the Accord's success, he finds vindication of Honda's engineering philosophy, known within the company as the Honda Way. 
In the 1980's, while still employed at G.M., Baker met with Shoichiro Irimajiri, a Honda motorcycle engineer who was then in charge of Honda manufacturing in Ohio. "As an engine designer, I was fascinated by Honda and the way they seemed to put all this good, expensive stuff into their engines," Baker said. "I asked him why Honda did things this way, and he said, 'We understand that everyone in the world is going to use a cast crankshaft,' " but Honda used a more expensive forged crankshaft. It sounds like a fine distinction, but it allowed Honda to use smaller bearing journals for less friction, and it also made for a stronger bottom end, which means you can rev the engine higher for more power. " 'We're trying to build the best thing,' Irimajiri said, 'and it's the responsibility of engineering and manufacturing to bring down the cost to an affordable level.' I loved that. And if it ever changed, I'd be out of here."
Though the new Accord tends toward the unobtrusive, even the bland, in its appearance, under the hood it is extremely sophisticated. Honda engineers used high-tech engine parts that require more exotic metallurgy and precise, costly machining. The expense is greater initially, but the payoff is easily perceived. Similarly, Accords employ a more elegant suspension than many of their competitors -- the costly, four-wheel, all-independent, double-wishbone system found in racing cars.
In order to protect its market share from other Japanese and Korean companies that are also building very good cars very efficiently (a pressure that European companies don't feel), Honda has managed to do all of this while keeping the vehicle's sticker price low. While it may not be as aesthetically pleasing as Volkswagen's (considerably more expensive) Passat (which has become something of a car of the moment among the upper middle class), the Accord still drives like a much more expensive car.
"It's pretty clear," Baker says, "that if you're going to use traditional technology, you can successfully market traditional S.U.V.'s and trucks at $30,000 and $40,000, and there's money to be made in that. The toughest prospect in the business is making money on small and midsize cars. That's the litmus test of whether you have discipline in cost control. Some of our competitors may think that by eschewing redesigns they're avoiding costs, but we disagree. The Accord was what built Honda, and there is an intensity throughout the company, a focus on retaining Accord's competitiveness."
It's not that American workers can't build a competitive passenger car. Accords, Camrys, Civics, Corollas and a host of other U.S.-built transplants, from Subarus to Nissans to BMW's, prove the contrary.
What may ultimately be troublesome for domestic carmakers is their decisions to pour resources into making ever-larger trucks and S.U.V.'s and to acquire foreign companies in lieu of regaining competitiveness in the car market. Mary Anne Keller, a longtime industry analyst, says that as a result of its choices, the American auto industry is in danger of flat-lining.The 1990's were a gift from God to the American auto industry, and they didn't take advantage of it. They should have made vehicles that were competitive. Instead, the American response has been to do what they always did: make it wider, make it faster, make it heavier. It was almost as though they gave up on cars entirely."
To its credit, Ford brought the Focus to the small-car market. The Focus has been a dynamic success, but it has also been plagued by material defects. For its part, G.M. has seemed content to largely abandon the car end of its business. Its recent purchase of the Korean automaker Daewoo, many analysts observed, amounted to a tacit admission that it couldn't compete with the Koreans at the low end of the market, and so it bought them. Additionally, General Motors recently announced that it will be buying tens of thousands of V-6 engines from Honda for use in G.M. cars in the U.S.
As for Honda, the analyst Daniel Gorrell says: "It's not that they're superior, but they have maintained consistency. As their reputation grew, they didn't drop the ball by lessening quality. They stayed true to their small-engined, engineer-driven philosophy. Are they more intellectual than other automakers? No. Is their business strategy better? No. But they know their niche better than anyone, and they've ridden the tide of success in exactly the right way." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Humble beginnings: The 1976 Accord.; Forever changes: The Accord has undergone no fewer than seven wholesale redesigns, most of them visible only to mechanics. (American Honda Motor Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); FAMILY (89%); SEDANS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); WRITERS (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (75%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (53%) AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (94%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (94%); 7267 (TSE) (94%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%)

PERSON: KITMAN, JAMIE LINCOLN 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



755 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 96

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: CARS; 
You Are What You Drive

BYLINE:  By A.O. Scott; A.O. Scott is a film critic for The Times.

 BODY:
About a year ago, in a burst of patriotism, my wife and I went out and bought a car. Well, yes, it was a Swedish car, but at the time this perfectly ordinary act of conspicuous consumption felt like -- and more to the point, was being widely promoted as -- an act of civic duty. Of course, there was more to the decision than the defense of our way of life. The two of us had arrived, in our mid-30's, at the grassy plateau of adulthood, having acquired over a decade or so all the trappings of that condition: each other, two children, real jobs and 30 years of mortgage debt. But it had been 10 years since our last car: a 1983 Oldsmobile Cutlass, a classic old-lady car passed down from a grandmother, with plush bench seats and a V-6 that accelerated silently and in its own good time.
 Then we moved to New York, perhaps the only American city where car ownership may, in fact, be a folly. One night, an enterprising and highly specialized thief pried off the metal trim around the headlights, leaving our poor Cutlass with a look of popeyed shock. So we retired her to the care of my sister-in-law and joined the New York multitude of weekday subway riders and occasional weekend car renters. 
 But as our oldest child approached school age, a restlessness began to set in, and we started to come up with practical arguments for buying a car of our own. We needed to be able to drive him to school on rainy days, to ferry him to activities in parts of Brooklyn not easily reached by public transportation, to take him and his sister on spontaneous excursions in search of open country or grandparental attention. 
Chiefly, though, we were thinking of ourselves. Without a car, our lives felt incomplete. The decision to buy a new car, however, raised a daunting question: who, exactly, were we? Car ownership in America, at least since World War II, has posed an exquisite and exemplary paradox of consumerism. You are what you drive. Your car is a bold statement of individual identity. But it is, at the same time, a piece of mass-produced, assembly-line goods, marketed not to you alone but to thousands of others like you.
So the question became, What kind of people are we? As we browsed the Web sites and cruised the local parking lots, it seemed we were being offered not only chrome, horsepower and fake wood grain but also the possibility of self-discovery or even self-invention. As we pondered the options -- All-wheel drive? Manual transmission? Sunroof? -- and studied the actuarial tables looking for optimal safety and reliability, we were also trying on fantasy selves. An old commercial used to invite you to "imagine yourself in a Mercury." I couldn't quite manage that, but I did sometimes dream of rolling through Brooklyn in a Lincoln Navigator with tinted windows and a six-CD changer, like a stock-option millionaire or a wannabe hip-hop grandee. I fixated on the ovoid headlamps of the new Mercedes sedans, much in the way I had a few years earlier on ultra-slim, many-buttoned, narrow-lapel suits. In both cases, I knew I could never carry such merchandise off -- much less afford it -- but it was nonetheless tantalizing to dream of the gratuitous sex appeal that owning it would confer.
But of course we were not only -- or not really -- about to express our individual uniqueness but rather our allegiance to a social type. There are, we discovered, red-state cars and blue-state cars, white-collar cars and blue-collar cars, gay cars and straight cars, although there is perpetual disagreement about which are which, and more promiscuous mixing of types than is commonly admitted. Above all, according to an unscientific survey conducted by the "Car Talk" Web site, there are guy cars and chick cars, which basically means Mustangs and Corvettes on one side and Volkswagens on the other. Horsepower versus cuteness of design. And for all I know, as I dreamed of a big V-8, my wife might well have been conjuring images of a new Beetle. Anything to avoid being confused with what, to the naked eye, we so obviously are: a middle-class family whose needs would best be served by a minivan.
When it comes to consumption, in any case, ours is a type that lives by a very strict, if contradictory, code in which certain purchases are required to be not just statements of taste but also indicators of virtue. Consumption should be conspicuously inconspicuous. Thus, in my neighborhood, every utterly special, exceptionally gifted child is strapped into the exact same Maclaren stroller as her peers. The wheels are small and elephant gray, the frame is sturdy aluminum and the seat is available in blue and green tartan plaids. They are uglier than most other strollers, and they cost more, too.
The Maclaren is an ostentatiously unflashy symbol of the owners' responsibility, restraint and good sense. It is, in other words, the Volvo of strollers. Some years ago, the literary critic Stanley Fish published an essay called "The Unbearable Ugliness of Volvos," in which he mocked the fetish among academics and other self-conscious, self-effacing members of the upper middle class for boxy, stiff-driving Scandinavian wagons. You see, these cars say, we don't care about material things, and by the way, we paid as much as we would have for a Mercedes.
In recent years, the Volvo monopoly on virtuous auto consumption has been challenged by super-reliable Japanese imports and, more recently, by the handsome design and improved engineering of the new Volkswagens. An S.U.V., despite my occasional self-reinvention fantasy, was for us out of the question on ideological grounds. We needed a station wagon, of course, because . . . well, we just did. Our choices, as we pondered them, narrowed down to two, which seemed to reflect the two sides of our generational and economic profile. The politically minded, flannel-shirt, organic-food side was embodied in the Subaru Outback; the more hedonistic, J. Crew, goat-cheese-and-olive-oil side by the Volkswagen Passat. As we wandered the brownstone-lined streets, it seemed that nearly every car we saw was one or another of these, which meant that whatever we did we would be just like everybody else. So we bought a Volvo. 
With cars as with real estate, it is absolutely imperative to be able to brag about the deal you got. You would think this would be tricky, given the laws of the marketplace, but really it is a matter of psychology and of proportion. I am happy to report that as my wife was filling out the final papers, the salesman said, "Boy, we practically gave you this thing," but I am also obliged to report that if I had had my way, we would have given him a lot more for it.
Luckily, I was not actually the one buying the car, since I have no talent for bargaining. Though I pride myself on a certain skepticism about marketing hype -- I mean, I drive a Volvo, you know -- I abandon it as soon as a guy in a blazer comes up and shakes my hand. My wife does not share this pathology and has the further advantage of hiding, under a demeanor of almost naive open-heartedness, a ferocious determination. So I fled the lot, and before long we were in possession of a shiny 2000 Volvo V40, for which we paid even less than the Consumer Reports wholesale price that arrived in the mail the next day. Because it began life as a floor demo, the car is loaded with irresponsible luxuries we would never have asked for (what kind of people do you take us for?) but nonetheless adore: a sunroof, a CD player and, as part of the sport package, a button near the shifter with the letter S on it that makes you feel really cool after you press it.
The phrase "love affair with the automobile" has always sounded silly to me, but now I find that it accurately describes the last year of my life, which has been dominated, more than I'd care to admit, by a deep and almost shameful infatuation. I spend a decent amount of time driving -- car-pooling, caravaning, sitting in gridlock -- and an indecent amount thinking about it or leafing idly through the owner's manual while I sit in the passenger seat. Climbing in behind the wheel, after the children are securely fastened in their five-point restraints, I feel freer than I do elsewhere, and also more at home. Everything is familiar, self-contained, under control: what I need is in easy reach. The people I care about are all around me. But at the same time, there is something exotic, something not quite me, a feeling of escape, of possibility, of reinvention. Who am I to be snuggled down in this leather seat, surrounded by music, the wind in my hair? Car ownership, I've discovered, feels like a voluptuous, almost sinful thing, even if you take all the requisite steps to guarantee its virtue. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: What becomes a film critic and his Brooklyn-based family the most? For the Scotts, it turns out to be a Volvo. (David Drebin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); CHILDREN (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); CITY LIFE (67%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%); WORLD WAR II (50%) AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: VOLVO AB 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (58%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: SCOTT, A O 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



756 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC: HIGH NOTES; 
Trying His Wings In German Opera

BYLINE:  By ANNE MIDGETTE 

 BODY:
Consider the American baritone Mark Delavan, if only because he seems to be succeeding, as so few do, in making the leap from the New York City Opera across the plaza to the hallowed halls of the Metropolitan. In January, he has Amonasro (in Verdi's "Aida") at the Met; this fall, he is the City Opera's fair-haired boy. Now starring in "Gianni Schicchi" and "Il Tabarro" in a new production of Puccini's "Trittico," he is taking a lead in another new production, of Richard Strauss's "Salome," which returns to the New York State Theater on Tuesday after a hiatus of more than 25 years. 
 Mr. Delavan will sing Jochanaan (John the Baptist), a tough, uncompromising character who spends part of the opera as a disembodied voice coming from a hole in the ground (depending, of course, on how Ian Judge, in his directorial debut at City Opera, chooses to stage it), and part of it as a disembodied head that is on the receiving end of one of the most infamous kisses in opera. 
 Mr. Delavan is somewhat uncompromising as well. He has a big, craggy, rough voice that is imposing without always being impressive; his force-of-nature style of singing sometimes seems to lack the full force of nature, a stone face shot through with veins of silt not yet cleared. But the unevenness is arguably part of what makes it exciting: in an age of automatic, pretty, careful vocal production, you're never quite sure what you're going to get with Mr. Delavan. And there is no denying his compelling stage presence, a growing ability to focus attention on himself with an economy of means.
To date, Mr. Delavan has not sung many roles in the German repertory. His portrayal of the Dutchman in Wagner's "Fliegende Hollander" last spring at the Spoleto Festival U.S.A. was notable; but for the most part he has stuck to the big Italian and French roles. He seems in no rush to develop a German specialty -- he is singing Jochanaan only three times this fall -- but it would seem to be a natural direction for his voice. Stay tuned. ANNE MIDGETTE

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Delavan as the Dutchman at the Spoleto Festival last spring. (William Struhs/Spoleto Festival U.S.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); MUSIC (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); THEATER (74%); FESTIVALS (72%) OPERA 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY OPERA 

PERSON: DELAVAN, MARK; MIDGETTE, ANNE; STRAUSS, RICHARD (1864-1949) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: SALOME (OPERA) 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



757 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: DANCE; 
In Partnering a Ballet, the Orchestra Must Also Dance

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW GUREWITSCH 

 BODY:
IT was the sort of clash that takes you straight back to first principles. Three summers ago, the dancers of the Maryinsky Theater in Russia's Imperial capital of St. Petersburg were ready to dance George Balanchine's neo-Classical masterpiece "Symphony in C" at the White Nights Festival. The work, set to a Georges Bizet score, was still quite new to them.
 At a final run-through with Gianandrea Noseda, the company's principal guest conductor, everyone made a troublesome discovery. Mr. Noseda, who had played Bizet's symphony before in concert but never for dancers, was taking the music at the speeds specified in the score. But the dancers were used to hearing it played at slower speeds, at which they could more easily keep up with the steps. According to the buzz backstage, swords were crossed and a sort of compromise was reached. Maybe so. But at the performance, Mr. Noseda flew ahead at the tempos he believes in, the dancers took wing on the extra jolt of adrenalin and the performance was thrilling, rather than correct or academic (read "boring"). Balanchine, I'm sure, would have approved. 
 No one goes to the ballet for the conductor. But conductors matter. 
Balanchine, whose views on dance continue to dominate our thinking nearly 20 years after his death, put music on a pedestal. He insisted that choreography must first of all serve the composer: hence his ballets are called by their scores rather than more fanciful titles ("Tchaikovsky Piano Concerto No. 2," "Stravinsky Violin Concerto," "Gounod Symphony").
Musicians, as a species, cannot bear to drag. You run out of steam. Pitch sags. Things fall apart. But in lobbying for Mr. Noseda to slow down, the Maryinsky dancers were merely invoking an ancient privilege of dictating tempo, composer be damned. Dancers -- especially ballerinas of the old Russian school, especially when cast as Giselle or Odette, the Swan Queen -- love to take their time, hanging on to their arabesques until the music simply expires.
Balanchine had no patience for this sort of thing. Like hoofers on Broadway (where he also did some memorable work in his time), Balanchine dancers were expected to pick up their feet and keep the pulse racing. Tempo, unlike such other musical fundamentals as pitch and rhythm, is not an absolute but something inherently flexible. It must "breathe."
Dance must breathe, too. Deliberate exceptions notwithstanding (Paul Taylor working to recordings by the Andrews Sisters, Twyla Tharp to those of Frank Sinatra, Merce Cunningham matching movement and music at random), the natural partner of live dancing is live music. Last fall, in a performance of Balanchine's "Scotch Symphony" at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, dance lovers cringed to see proteges of Suzanne Farrell, Balanchine's greatest muse, strive bravely and then throw up their hands as a defective tape of the Mendelssohn score sputtered and died. An extreme case, to be sure, and living musicians can run into trouble, too. But in ballet, canned music remains, in general, a solution of last resort. Dancers need musicians -- one at least, usually the conductor -- who can see them.
In their attitude to music, modern-dance choreographers are decidedly School of Balanchine. True, they, too, have set dances to recordings. But mostly they respect the principle that music and dance must breathe together. Even in the leanest times, their dancers have enjoyed the "luxury" of performing to live music. It was telling that for the Mostly Mozart Festival performances of "L'Allegro, il Penseroso ed il Moderato" at Lincoln Center last month, the Mark Morris Dance Group shared equal billing with the conductor Nicholas McGegan, the Philharmonia Orchestra of San Francisco, the soloists and the chorus.
And why not? "L'Allegro," Mr. Morris's magnum opus, is danced to a complete Handel oratorio. The musicians are full-fledged partners in the venture, not mere accompanists. And when Mr. McGegan -- taking the last of the solo bows -- gestured for orchestra and singers (still in the pit) to rise, the audience responded with the loudest cheer of the night. 
But such recognition is rare. And the question arises: Given other options, what conductor would choose to conduct ballet? Very few. The portly bon vivant Robert Irving, for eons Balanchine's musical director at the New York City Ballet, was one who claimed to love such work. An owner of racehorses and a devotee of physical beauty, he once explained that he would much rather watch dancers (sleek and beautiful) than opera singers (clumsy and overfed).
Mr. McGegan is of a similar mind. "Playing for the Mark Morris Dance Group is as much fun as you can have legally and in public," he said by phone from San Francisco shortly before "L'Allegro," all but crackling with glee.
The link between musical impulse and movement, he says, is especially crucial in the Baroque period, which is his specialty. "So much of Baroque music is based on dance," he said. "It's wonderful actually to see that. Playing dances for people who are dancing is a very different experience. The musicians actually play better. They can feel it."
The orchestra of the Maryinksy Theater -- still best known internationally (as are the theater's other component ensembles) by the name of Kirov, after a Stalinist official of evil memory who met a bad end -- is accustomed to playing for dancers, no less than for opera singers, and as the main attraction in its own right on concert stages all over the world. Under the leadership of the conductor Valery Gergiev, the orchestra has emerged in the last decade as one of the foremost theatrical and symphonic ensembles in the world.
INTERNATIONAL superstar that he is, Mr. Gergiev has himself been known to conduct ballet performances for his company's dancers. But he also took his orchestra to the stage of Carnegie Hall for a complete concert performance of Tchaikovsky's "Nutcracker" in 1998, sometimes at tempos that took even a listener's breath away. Heaven knows how the dancers would have managed. In the mind's eye, they were beyond compare.
As for Bizet's symphony, this is music the Maryinsky orchestra members probably never saw on their stands until Balanchine's ballet entered the dancers' repertory. "Confronted with my insistence on respecting Bizet's metronome markings, which Balanchine surely knew," Mr. Noseda wrote in a recent e-mail recalling the White Nights "Symphony in C," "there was a bit of an argument on the theme, 'What is more important? The choreography or the music?' "
"Assuring everyone of my respect for the choreography and my love for the dancers," Mr. Noseda continued, "but at the same time defending the musical qualities, which are the basis on which the choreography was created, I persuaded the dancers to dance at a tempo markedly quicker, also because I was conscious of their extremely high technical proficiency. I think the result was as surprising to me as it was to them. I'm convinced that cooperation between the art forms of music and dancing -- informed by equal respect for both -- is the secret of an excellent result."
For a visiting New Yorker watching from out front, the performance was no less astonishing: a recreation of the spirit of the New York City Ballet in the age of Balanchine himself. Back then, certain pedants would fault the corps de ballet on its lack of the sort of uniformity that is characteristic of the Rockettes or a military drill. Truth? The Maryinsky fell a little short in this department. But a certain "raggedness" was a price Balanchine willingly paid in exchange for the elan and vitality of each dancer on the stage. At curtain calls at the Maryinsky, the dancers were positively on air. Each one of them seemed to have grown an inch.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 27, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 29 about the role of conductors in ballet referred incorrectly to choreographers who use live music during their companies' performances, even in lean economic times. The reference was to Mark Morris, not to all modern-dance choreographers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Mark Morris Dance Group performing "L'Allegro, il Penseroso ed il Moderato" at the Brooklyn Academy of Music's Opera House last year. (Stephanie Berger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); DANCERS (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); THEATER (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); FESTIVALS (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); APPROVALS (69%) DANCING; MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: MARYINSKY THEATER; PHILHARMONIA ORCHESTRA 

PERSON: GUREWITSCH, MATTHEW; GERGIEV, VALERY; NOSEDA, GIANANDREA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (65%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



758 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
Telling the Truth From Inside Indian Country

BYLINE:  By JOSHUA BROCKMAN 

DATELINE: TAOS, N.M. 

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH American Indians have played a prominent role in Hollywood movies, the reality of Indian country has rarely made it to the screen. Chris Eyre, with two new projects offering genuine, and sometimes raw, portraits of Indian life today, is helping Hollywood catch up.
 His new film, "Skins," which opened on Friday, was shot entirely on the Pine Ridge reservation in South Dakota and depicts alcoholism and violence in scenes that could be from a fly-on-the-wall documentary, or perhaps an episode of "Cops." 
 "I'm not interested in making movies about historical Indians, because there's no value in that," Mr. Eyre, 33, said at a screening of "Skins" last spring at the Taos Talking Picture Festival. "The only thing you get in making period pieces about Indians is guilt. I'm interested in doing what non-Indian filmmakers can't do, which is portray contemporary Indians." 
Mr. Eyre's previous feature, "Smoke Signals" (1998), won the Filmmakers Trophy at the Sundance festival and was the first movie by an American Indian director to be nationally released. In November his film of the Tony Hillerman novel "Skinwalkers," from Mr. Hillerman's popular series about the Navajo tribal policemen Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn, will be the first American story shown as part of PBS's "Mystery!"
"Chris has a very well-rounded sensibility in terms of business and storytelling," said Bird Runningwater, a consultant to the Native American program at the Sundance Institute, which Mr. Eyre attended in 1995. "He knows good stories. He really gives complexity and depth to Native characters that he directs and brings to the screen. Couple that with a knowledge of how the movie world works."
Mr. Eyre is not the only Indian filmmaker taking on subjects like alcohol abuse, murder, domestic violence and homosexuality. Zacharias Kunuk's "Fast Runner," released in June, and Sherman Alexie's "Business of Fancydancing," which is to open on Oct. 18, are also attacking the longstanding Hollywood cliches. 
"They want the wise old grandfathers and they want the visions and they want the drunks," said Mr. Alexie, 35, the writer and filmmaker who adapted the screenplay for "Smoke Signals" from his own short stories. "But they don't want lawyers, doctors, construction workers, or members of A.A."
Even contemporary Hollywood depictions of Indians -- in a well-meaning film like "Dances With Wolves," for instance -- are based on the old images, said Elizabeth Weatherford, head of the film and video center of the Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian. "Always, the Hollywood films perceived the Indians as other," she said. "The big difference is right there: Hollywood perceived its audiences as non-Native."
Mr. Eyre's goal is to recast the Indian experience with the Indian audience in mind. 
"I'm talking about owning our image and debunking what we all grew up understanding from John Ford and John Wayne about movie Indians," said Mr. Eyre, whose soft voice and casual appearance (Hawaiian shirt and sneakers) belied the intensity that emerged when he talked about his mission. "The only thing that has been more detrimental to Indians than religion has been John Ford movies."
To make sure that "Skins" would be available to Indians, and responsive to their concerns, Mr. Eyre and First Look Pictures staged what they called the "Rolling Rez Tour." Free screenings of the movie, before its theatrical release, were held at several Indian communities around the country, including Pine Ridge.
"Self-representation of Indians in cinema is one of the last cinematic frontiers left," Mr. Eyre said. "We are in an infancy of illustrating to the world who it is that we are."
"Skins," which is based on a novel by Adrian C. Louis (the screenplay is by Jennifer D. Lyne), focuses on two brothers on the Pine Ridge reservation who are struggling to keep their boyhood promise to look out for each other. Mogie Yellow Lodge (Graham Greene), a highly decorated Vietnam veteran, is a chronic alcoholic. His younger brother, Rudy (Eric Schweig), is a tribal cop. Rudy, frustrated with his job and inspired by his encounter with Iktomi, a Lakota trickster spirit, becomes a closet vigilante. He intends to strike a blow against the booming alcohol trade in nearby Whiteclay, Neb., where Mogie quenches his thirst, but the plan backfires and nearly kills Mogie.
Mr. Eyre is drawn to stories that depict what he calls the "home drama." A Cheyenne-Arapaho, he was adopted by a white family and grew up in Klamath Falls, Ore. (He found his biological family seven years ago in Washington state.) He earned a master's degree from New York University's film school in 1996, and lives with his wife, a member of the Oglala Lakota, and daughter near Rapid City, S.D.
The Pine Ridge reservation, which is not far from Mr. Eyre's home, has long been a flashpoint in the struggle for Indian rights. Once home to Crazy Horse, Red Cloud and Black Elk, the reservation was the site of the 1890 Wounded Knee massacre and the 1973 Wounded Knee takeover and siege. Today, the reservation is in one of the poorest counties in the United States and has an 88 percent unemployment rate and high rates of alcoholism.
"I made the movie because I wanted to humanize a social untouchable," Mr. Eyre said. "I wanted to put a face to the alcoholics that people see in Gallup, N.M., or any reservation border town in this country. My contention was always that these people out there are somebody's father, brother, or their uncle -- they're not just people to be disregarded. I think Indians understand that. Non-Indians seem to think that they're bums." 
At the same time, "Skins" departs from "Smoke Signals," a road movie that Mr. Eyre called "pan-Indian," by focusing on one reservation. One thing that makes an Indian movie genuine, Mr. Eyre said, is drawing on the linguistic, cultural and religious elements specific to a tribe, in this case the Oglala Sioux.
"Skins" openly confronts the brutality of reservation life. In a chilling scene, Verdell Weasel Tail (Gary Farmer), a drinking buddy of Mogie's, dies of a heart attack after his foot gets caught in a bear trap set near a home to keep thieves away. The woman whose husband set the trap expresses no remorse when Rudy comes to investigate: "Don't try and make us feel guilty. It's not our fault that big old drunk got stuck in that trap."
When Mogie's son Herbie finds him in a drunken stupor on Herbie's 18th birthday, Mogie, who has no idea what day it is, apologizes. In a moment of acuity Mogie recalls that his own father -- also an alcoholic -- never remembered birthdays either.
But humor flows through the direst scenes. At a tense moment when Rudy admits that he has been meting out vigilante justice, Mogie tries to enlist him in a project to blow the nose off of George Washington at nearby Mount Rushmore. When Rudy asks where Mogie gets these ideas, Mogie holds up his beer can and shakes it.
" 'Skins' is about the ability to laugh in the worst circumstances because you have to," Mr. Eyre said. "Humor is painful sometimes, and that's what makes it funnier. That's really the mark of an Indian movie, the humor."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eric Schewig, left, and Graham Greene in "Skins."; Chris Eyre filming "Skins" on the Pine Ridge Reservation. "The only thing you get in making period pieces about Indians is guilt," he says. (Photographs by First Look Pictures)(pg. 15); Evan Adams, left, and Adam Beach in Chris Eyre's 1998 film, "Smoke Signals." (Miramax Films)(pg. 16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (87%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (71%); WRITERS (71%) MOTION PICTURES; INDIANS, AMERICAN 

PERSON: EYRE, CHRIS; BROCKMAN, JOSHUA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: SKINS (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



759 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2181 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
The Scenery, Though, He Won't Chew

BYLINE:  By FRANZ LIDZ; Franz Lidz is a senior writer at Sports Illustrated and the author of "Unstrung Heroes." He writes frequently about film.

DATELINE: MALIBU, Calif. 

 BODY:
P . G. WODEHOUSE once described a character as looking like a Welsh rarebit about to come to the height of its fever, and it is this very cheese dish at an acute stage of meltdown that Anthony Hopkins's face now resembles.
 Every two minutes for the last half-hour, the soft air of his Malibu beach house has been rent with the brrrring! of a telephone. Every two minutes Mr. Hopkins has dutifully picked up the receiver and said, "Hello." And every two minutes the receiver cocked to his ear has emitted a shrill, metallic crrrrr! Someone is trying to send him him a fax. 
 Alas, Mr. Hopkins does not own a fax machine. Hence, the Welsh rarebit. 
A master of simmering restraint, this 64-year-old Welsh actor stands at attention, a frosty twinkle in his dead blue eyes. He doesn't blink. "I've worked hard at distilling my work to a more economic form," he says with a kind of pinched elegance. "Over the years, I've become fairly adept at performing little still parts."
Clocking in at 21 minutes, the littlest of his still parts was undoubtedly that of Hannibal Lecter, the voracious mass murderer he essayed in the 1991 thriller "Silence of the Lambs." The M.O. of that brilliant shrink was eating patients when they ceased to interest him. Of one victim, he famously sighed, "His therapy was going nowhere."
Mr. Hopkins achieved a certain perverse poignancy (and won an Oscar) by informing Hannibal the Cannibal with demonic charm, a sense of wounded innocence and an insinuating drawl that crossed Truman Capote with Katharine Hepburn. "There's love in Hannibal, but no pity," says Mr. Hopkins. "His tragedy is that he'll never escape the colossal horror of his inner world."
Now Sir Anthony -- he was knighted in 1993 -- reprises the role for the second time in "Red Dragon," a "Silence of the Lambs" prequel that its director, Brett Ratner, calls "a heartfelt story about a serial killer." Unlike the rococo campiness of last year's "Hannibal" -- Mr. Hopkins gave new meaning to "brain food" by performing neurosurgery with sizzling skillet and rare white Burgundy at hand -- the prevailing mood of the new release is studied gloom.
"Red Dragon," which opens on Friday, is actually the second film to be based on the Thomas Harris novel of the same name. In the original, Michael Mann's "Manhunter" (1986), Lecter was played by another actor trained in the British theater, Brian Cox.
Mr. Hopkins's take is eerily serene, sinister and hypnotic. Even straitjacketed, his face imprisoned in a grotesque hockey mask, he seems perfectly capable of talking you into swallowing your tongue.
"Tony brought a coiled intensity to his scenes in 'Red Dragon,' " Mr. Ratner says. "Lecter is now a vicious, violent man full of blazing rage. In one scene, Tony is so angry and tortured that you can see tears in his eyes."
It's unclear whether Mr. Hopkins regards doing this interview as torture, though he conspicuously consults his watch every 53 seconds or so. In spite of the endless fax interruptions, he's as attentive and unfailingly polite as the repressed butler he played in "Remains of the Day" (1993).
So commanding is Mr. Hopkins's quietude that at times he seems to be following the advice an actor-friend gave him on what makes a good manservant: when he's in the room, the room is emptier.
The twice-divorced Mr. Hopkins -- his second marriage, to Jennifer Lynton, ended in April after 29 years -- shares his beach house with two grand pianos. "The ocean is my backyard," he says, pounding out a Chopin prelude on a Bosendorfer in his living room.
Portraits of malevolent gamecocks stare down from the kitchen walls, but the kitchen counters are somewhat disappointingly bare. There's not a fava bean or a bottle of chianti in sight.
"I seriously considered turning 'Red Dragon' down," Mr. Hopkins says. "I'd done the cutesy stuff twice, and the jokes had worn thin. I wanted to move on. I had no desire to be Fava Bean Man again."
That changed when the producer Dino de Laurentiis leaned on him. In his expressively mangled English, Mr. de Laurentiis recalls: "I told Tony that Brett Ratner is very enthusiasm and wants to do this film with you desperate. I told him, 'It's go if you say yes.' "
Mr. Hopkins said: "And if I don't?"
"Well then, I don't know what we going to do," Mr. de Laurentiis says he replied. "Please, listen to Brett."
Mr. Hopkins listened.
Mr. Ratner says: "I won Tony over by explaining what I love about the character. I said: 'I love that I'm afraid of you. I love being terrified of you.' "
In a recent Internet poll, Mr. Hopkins's Lecter was voted the scariest psychopath in screen history -- not too surprising if you consider that the monstrously beguiling creation was stitched together from parts of filmdom's greatest fiends.
"Like Dracula, Hannibal Lecter has a pronounced taste for human blood," David Skal wrote in "The Monster Show: A Cultural History of Horror." "Like Frankenstein, he is a brilliant but mad scientist; he has two personalities, like Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, both civilized and savage; and like some sideshow super-geek, he is held and exhibited in a succession of zoolike enclosures."
As a boy in Port Talbot, a grim South Wales steel town, Mr. Hopkins wasn't much of a horror fan. "Boris and Bela were fun to watch, but they were more entertaining than frightening," he says. "I remember seeing 'King Kong' and laughing at it."
The only film he found remotely creepy was "Moss Rose," a 1947 Edwardian Gothic about a chorus girl who blackmails her way into an English country estate. As the mad matriarch, Ethel Barrymore was no unobtrusive loony: she made a meal of it. "Now that was scary," Mr. Hopkins says.
His "useless and thoroughly confusing childhood" was as unremarkable as your average triple-ax murderer's. Born Philip Anthony Hopkins, the only child of a baker, he was, by his own account, a clumsy, chunky lad, rotten at school and everything else.
"I was a poor learner, which left me open to ridicule and gave me an inferiority complex," he has said. "I grew up absolutely convinced I was stupid." His only real talent was for drinking India ink, which impressed his school chums but not his teachers.
In desperation, his parents sent him off to a posh boarding school, where the headmaster told him he was "hopeless" and he developed a "sheer contempt for authority." He stumbled into acting at 17 with a Y.M.C.A. group (his one line: "Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth"), studied in London at the Royal Academy and, in 1965, joined Laurence Olivier's National Theater.
His big break came while understudying Olivier in Strindberg's "Dance of Death." When Olivier was hospitalized with appendicitis, he later wrote, Mr. Hopkins "walked away with the part of Edgar like a cat with a mouse between its teeth."
A self-described "antisocial moron," Mr. Hopkins was prone to churlishness and boozing. In 1969, he walked out on his first wife, Petronella Barker, and their 14-month-old daughter, Abigail, now 35 and a film actress. Four years later, he walked out on a production of "Macbeth" at the National.
"I'd begun to loathe acting in the classical theater," Mr. Hopkins says. He resurfaced to acclaim in the 1974 Broadway production of "Equus." Hollywood came calling, and he settled there the next year. But his disposition didn't improve until he stopped drinking, cold, on Dec. 29, 1975, after waking up in a Phoenix hotel room with no memory of having driven from Los Angeles. It was two days before his 38th birthday. 
STILL, he continued to spiral downward, at times sitting at home for hours without saying a word. He'd climb in his car and cruise aimlessly for days: once he went on a drive and didn't return for two months. "If there is someone fighting within you, it makes your life unbearable," he says. "Anger has to be converted into something else or it destroys you."
During a 10-year stint in L.A., Mr. Hopkins made lots of money and so many dodgy movies -- least notably "International Velvet," "Audrey Rose" and "Change of Seasons," in which he shared a hot tub with Bo Derek -- that it's hard to imagine what roles he turned down. There were triumphs, too, in film ("The Elephant Man," "The Bounty") and in television, where he excelled at playing madmen and grotesques. He won Emmys for his turns as Hitler and Bruno Hauptmann, the kidnapper of the Lindbergh baby. But somehow, the promise didn't quite ignite into stardom.
After embracing Alcoholics Anonymous, Mr. Hopkins returned to England in the mid-1980's with his second wife, Ms. Lynton. He rebuilt his career with stunning stage work: in David Henry Hwang's "M. Butterfly," he played a French diplomat seduced and traduced by the talents of a Chinese performer; he did the lead in "King Lear"; he won the London Theater Association's award for best actor with his portrayal of a scabrous newspaper tycoon in David Hare and Howard Brenton's "Pravda."
Then came Hannibal, and everything changed. Merchant and Ivory tapped Mr. Hopkins for "Howards End" and "Remains of the Day," for which he received his second best-actor nomination. For the 1995 film biography "Nixon," Oliver Stone cast him in the lead. "Nixon was the greatest challenge of my career," Mr. Hopkins says. The hunted, haunted portrayal earned him his third Oscar nomination. (His most recent was a nomination for best supporting actor, for playing John Quincy Adams in Steven Spielberg's "Amistad.")
Two years ago, in an L.A. courthouse, Mr. Hopkins pledged allegiance to the American flag. Though Sir Anthony retains his British citizenship and title, Fleet Street tabloids branded him "Hannibal Traitor" and "Hannibal Defector" and quoted a scandalized Port Talbot postmaster: "Sir Anthony is always harping on about his Welshness, but when the chips are down he decides to go away. To be honest, I think he is a hypocrite."
Upon hearing this, Mr. Hopkins throws up his hands. "I am a simple man from a meat-and-potatoes background," he says. "I moved to La-La Land because, at heart, I am a beach bum." Bumming around, he reckons, has helped him conquer "a psychological state of self-destructive mayhem." 
So what becalms a legend most? "Lear learned compassion," he says. "It melted him and thawed him out."
Not long ago Mr. Hopkins watched a documentary on the pianist Vladimir Horowitz. "At one point Horowitz takes off his jacket and plays this very complex, discordant piece -- Scriabin, I believe," he says. "When it was over, he got up, crossed to the sofa and asked his wife what she thought.
" 'Well,' she said, 'you're the devil.' And he said, 'Yeah.' At the age of 81, he was the devil.
"At that moment, I thought, 'There's a devil side to Horowitz, a dark side, a big shadow side, because of his prodigious genius.' He had gone through a patch of depression so severe that for many years he didn't play. I thought, 'That must not be too easy to live with.' "
Now crustily cruising into a triumphant old age, this once dark and stormy knight claims work no longer engulfs him. "It's a job -- nothing more," Mr. Hopkins says. "I don't take it home. People are slightly astonished or may be offended by my rather mundane approach to it all, or what seems to be mundane. I try to explain it's what I do and that I'm not any of these people I play. I just interpret, and I really don't know how it works. Maybe that makes me a very shallow actor."
So what is Mr. Hopkins's idea of hell?
The icy blue eyes suddenly look sharp enough to pierce glass. "Hell, for me, would be a wet Wednesday afternoon at the Old Vic," he says. "Other actors would be onstage reciting verse, and I'd be standing in the wings in wrinkled tights, thinking, 'Oh, God, another endless production' for the rest of eternity."

'Hamlet' to Lecter
Since 1960, Anthony Hopkins has appeared in (or narrated) nearly 100 movies, including many made for television. Here is a selected list of feature films and his roles.

THE HUMAN STAIN (2003) Classics professor with a lifelong secret.

THE DEVIL AND DANIEL WEBSTER (2002) Writer who sells his soul to the devil.

RED DRAGON (2002) Hannibal Lecter.

BAD COMPANY (2002) C.I.A. agent.

HEARTS IN ATLANTIS (2001) Man with extraordinary powers.

HANNIBAL (2001) Hannibal Lecter.

HOW THE GRINCH STOLE CHRISTMAS (2000) Narrator.

TITUS (1999) Titus Andronicus.

SIEGFRIED AND ROY: THE MAGIC BOX (1999) Narrator.

INSTINCT (1999) Renegade anthropologist.

MEET JOE BLACK (1998) Tycoon.

THE MASK OF ZORRO (1998) Don Diego de la Vega/Zorro.

AMISTAD (1997) John Quincy Adams.

THE EDGE (1997) Stranded billionaire.

SURVIVING PICASSO (1996) Pablo Picasso.

NIXON (1995) Richard M. Nixon.

LEGENDS OF THE FALL (1994) Retired Army colonel and patriarch.

THE ROAD TO WELLVILLE (1994) Eccentric nutritionist.

SHADOWLANDS (1993) The writer C. S. Lewis.

THE REMAINS OF THE DAY (1993) Butler.

HOWARDS END (1992) Patriarch and British tycoon.

THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS (1991) Hannibal Lecter.

84 CHARING CROSS ROAD (1986) Frank Doel, British book seller.

THE BOUNTY (1984) Captain Bligh.

THE ELEPHANT MAN (1980) Dr. Frederick Treves.

ALL CREATURES GREAT AND SMALL (1974) Veterinarian.

HAMLET (1969) Claudius.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anthony Hopkins near his home in Malibu. Even his voracious madman, Hannibal Lecter, shows a certain elegant restraint. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter once again, in "Red Dragon." (Glen Wilson/Universal Studios)(pg. 24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); CELEBRITIES (73%); FILM (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (70%); MURDER (68%); HOMICIDE (68%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (66%) MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: HOPKINS, ANTHONY; LIDZ, FRANZ 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: RED DRAGON (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



760 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/East 93rd Street Between Madison and Park Avenues; 
Where City's Stately Mansions Made a Last Stand

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
THE world changed forever -- after the stock market crash of 1929. And one of the biggest changes was the end of the era of large mansions on the Upper East Side, as even the richest families found irresistible the convenience and economy of apartment living. But on 93rd Street between Madison and Park Avenues, several families sought to make a last stand of elegance. Now new owners are taking over two of the mansions.
 This block of 93rd was nearly empty in 1888 when its oldest buildings went up, the row houses at 57 and 61 East 93rd. Then in 1891 came the small apartment buildings at 62 to 72 East 93rd. In 1900 the developer Frederick Kilpatrick built the more expansive Alamo apartment building at 55 East 93rd, which offered apartments of 5 to 12 rooms. 
 By this time the block had filled up with other modest buildings, hardly the company that the mansions' builders, who were filtering up Fifth Avenue, would like to keep. One big house did go up on the northwest corner of 93rd and Park, built in 1917 by the financier Francis F. Palmer and designed by Delano & Aldrich, but the nearly cubic Georgian-style house related to the growing stature of Park Avenue, not to 93rd Street. 
Down in Murray Hill, the banker George F. Baker, head of National City Bank and one of the richest men in the country, was fighting apartment and loft developers who sought to build high-rises that would overshadow his mansion at Madison near 39th. Baker, who oversaw a family complex that included a house for his in-laws, the Loews, faced the unpleasant prospect of buying up parcel after parcel as other householders fled to Midtown and farther north.
He kept on, but the younger generation did not. In 1927, George F. Baker Jr. left the Murray Hill enclave and bought the old Palmer mansion at 93rd and Park. The younger Baker brought back Delano & Aldrich to add a ballroom to the main houseand to design a smaller house at 67 East 93rd and a garage at 69 East 93rd, all in complementary style. 
The son's uptown defection spread, and in 1930 his sister and brother-in-law, Florence and William Goadby Loew, bought the properties at 54 to 58 East 93rd, They retained Walker & Gillette to design a sumptuous, Regency-style limestone house at 56 East 93rd, with a distinctive, inward-curving facade. Building records indicate it was for "the owner, his wife and 16 servants." 
In the same year, Virginia Vanderbilt, divorced in 1927 from William K. Vanderbilt Jr., bought the buildings at 60 to 64 East 93rd Street. To replace them, she had the architect John Russell Pope design a French classic house of 51 rooms. It is likely that Mrs. Vanderbilt was more than just casually friendly with the Bakers and the Loews. In 1920 she gave a dinner at her Fifth Avenue mansion for the Loews' daughter, Evelyn. 
The "new residential colony," as The New York Times put it in 1930, ran counter to the decline of the large private house in New York, and that year marked the last boom for such dwellings. Plans for five in all of Manhattan were filed at the Department of Buildings that year, and the few built after the Depression never again rivaled the precrash versions. 
A fourth big house was scheduled for the block in 1930. The old buildings at 66 to 68 East 93rd were bought by the songwriter Irving Berlin, who also had a connection to Mrs. Vanderbilt. His wife was the former Ellin Mackay, and her grandfather, John W. Mackay, had been a partner in Nevada silver operations with Mrs. Vanderbilt's father, James Fair.
Berlin intended also to build a house, but the deepening Depression ended his plans. "Money came up a lot the summer after the Crash," his daughter, Mary Ellin Barrett, recalled in her book, "Irving Berlin: A Daughter's Memoir" (Knopf, 1994). The Berlins did not file plans for the house, and Mrs. Barrett says she does not know if they even hired an architect; they remained living in the Warwick Hotel on West 54th Street.
The Loew and Vanderbilt houses were completed in 1931, the same year that George F. Baker Sr. died in his Murray Hill house, and both Baker Jr. and Mrs. Vanderbilt bought other adjacent properties to protect their home sites. The aspirations of these millionaires brought others to the block, like the architect William H. Russell, who remodeled the front of 65 East 93rd Street in the Art Deco style for his own occupancy. But the golden age of mansions on East 93rd Street was brief; Virginia Vanderbilt died in 1935, Florence Loew in 1936 and George F. Baker Jr. in 1937.
Those with different ideas arrived, among them Jan Ruhtenberg, a Latvian-born modernist architect who had studied with Mies van der Rohe. Ruhtenberg stripped down the old brownstone at 57 East 93rd. In 1937 the magazine Architectural Forum praised the removal of plaster from the interior brick walls, which "gained three inches of valuable space in the entry and provided a richly textured surface in the studio which shows off the severe furniture to great advantage." 
The smaller houses were cut up into apartments. In 1938 one tenant in Russell's Art Deco house, which had been converted to apartments, was Diana Vreeland. She had just begun her American fashion career at Harper's Bazaar -- later she was to become editor in chief of Vogue. Her purposely outrageous column, "Why Don't You?," made provocative fashion suggestions, including yellow collars "for all your dogs" and a furry elkhide trunk for the back of your car. 
THE biggest houses were harder to carve up. In 1955 the Loew family sold its house to the impresario Billy Rose, still famous for his Aquacades at the 1939-40 New York World's Fair, and in 1958 the Bakers sold their big corner house to the Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia, which still owns it. Irving Berlin did not sell his house site until 1959. The Vanderbilt house later became one of several buildings of the Lycee Francaise de New York.
Edward F. Ulmann, a retired industrialist, owned Baker's smaller house in the 1970's and 1980's, and recalled it with affection. "Although I hadn't been brought up in modest circumstances, it was a revelation to me what a genius William Delano was as far as demanding comfort is concerned," he said. "Everything always fell to hand, the light switches, the outlets, the door handles, they were always where you wanted them. 
"There was an entire floor for the servants, not way up in the roof but inserted invisibly above the ground floor. The trunk room was beautifully fitted out with cedar slats to keep your trunks off the floor. 
"In the dining room you never had the smell of food because the kitchen was in the basement -- in fact it took me several years to discover we even had a kitchen. There was a bank of freezers in the basement that wouldn't have surprised the captain of the Q.E.II." 
Both Mr. Ulmann's house and the Baker garage are now owned by the investor and house collector Richard H. Jenrette. 
Now a huge barricade runs in front of the old Loew house for the Spence School, which bought the building in 1999 and is altering it for school use. Samuel White, the architect in charge of the work, said the Loews' varied interiors -- from Jacobean to Art Deco -- are in storage and will be reinstalled.
Next door in the old Vanderbilt mansion, the students of the Lycee Francaise are still at work, but the school has sold the building to Carlton Hobbs, a London antiques dealer. The school will occupy the building until its new campus at 75th and York is finished. So the latest chapter in the history of this block of New York's last mansions will not be completed for a few more years.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Right: the old Loew, left, and Vanderbilt mansions, in about 1990. Above, the Loew and Vanderbilt houses, at right of photo, under construction in 1931. (Top: Municipal Archives; bottom: Christopher Gray) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%) MANSIONS 

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (54%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SPENCE SCHOOL; LYCEE FRANCAIS DE NEW YORK 

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER; JENRETTE, RICHARD H; ULMANN, EDWARD F; BAKER, GEORGE F JR; HOBBS, CARLTON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



761 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
Restoring Neighborhoods by Renovating Eyesores

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

 BODY:
THE best way to turn around a neighborhood on the skids is the hardest way, at least according to the experience of one nonprofit development company using an innovative approach in Orange and East Orange.
 "What we've learned you have to do," said Patrick Morrissey, director of the Hands group, "is take the biggest eyesore on a block -- the messiest, most awful building where the police get called all the time and the neighbors don't even want to walk past it on the street -- take it, get control of it and transform it into a house that sends a positive message about what's going on in that neighborhood." 
 Hands, formerly known as Housing and Neighborhood Development Services Inc., was founded in 1986 by members of the clergy and community leaders who said they wanted to see Orange -- population 32,000 -- and East Orange -- population 77,000 -- "remain good places to raise a family." 
Both towns have long had very low rates of homeownership, currently 26 percent in Orange, 28 percent in East Orange, compared with a statewide average of 67 percent. Both towns also have about 19 percent of households living below the poverty line, compared with a statewide poverty rate of 6.2 percent. 
Nevertheless, both municipalities possess a stock of decent -- or at least salvageable -- housing, plus a goodly number of working families and anchor institutions like hospitals and community colleges.
In any given neighborhood poised between deterioration and revitalization, there are "tipping factors" that determine the direction it goes, said Wayne Meyer, the housing director of Hands. 
"One bad house will send an entire block, or even several blocks, in the wrong direction, toward deterioration and decline," Mr. Meyer said. One bad house can also seriously affect property values, he asserted. Mr. Meyer, a lawyer with 20 years experience in the private real estate world before he joined Hands, estimated that a troubled building generally brings down the value of all homes on the block by 10 percent.
During its first decade, the small staff at Hands -- which has always been countable on fingers -- followed the ordinary path of community developers. It contracted to build new one and two-family homes or rehabilitate raggedy ones when the city handed over title to derelict properties. Then, Hands sold the houses to first-time home buyers. It created a HomeBuyers Club to prepare first-time buyers and organized three neighborhood groups and two citywide coalitions. It provided training for community leaders and worked out partnerships with City Hall, other nonprofits and business groups.
"At some point we realized, however," Mr. Morrissey said, "that to actually save a neighborhood that's in danger of going down, you can't simply add new homes. You have to put the process of decline in reverse."
WHAT Hands came up with is something called "high-impact development for long-term sustainable change." The strategy involves zeroing in on buildings that are in such bad shape that they are contaminating the area and transforming them into model brick-and-mortar "citizens."
Working with a $500,000 grant from the state's Balanced Housing Program -- which approved a similar pilot program in Camden several years ago -- Hands is focusing on properties in Orange's East Ward, stretching along the East Orange border. The East Ward was divided east to west 30 years ago by construction of Interstate 280.
"Give us your worst," Hands essentially asks owners of property in the area, including the city. But getting clear title to the wrecks has proved to be the most difficult part of the process, according to Mr. Morrissey and Mr. Meyer. So difficult, in fact, that Hands cried out for help to the Housing and Community Development Association of New Jersey. Diane Sterner, director of the group, responded by working with Hands to write legislation that will make it easier for municipalities to clear title to properties. The legislation is pending in the State Legislature.
Mr. Meyer tells tales of title searches on abandoned properties or estates that involved sorting claims by dozens of relatives, associates and squatters (tenants who have no leases and do not pay rent). He must do all the sorting and resolving before going to City Hall, he said, because overburdened municipalities are not equipped for such struggles.
"We cleaned up this corner, Hillyer and William," Mr. Morrissey said, standing outside the two-story frame houses there now. "It was the worst corner in the East Ward, so bad you can't believe -- guns, drugs, a brothel in there, everything. We cleaned it up." Mr. Meyer added, "It took forever, because owners had died, and getting the titles was a nightmare."
Currently, Hands is rebuilding a multifamily building at 151 Chapman Street.
"The city made some mistakes in the process of taking over the property," Mr. Morrissey said. "When we pointed it out to the city, it seemed to be low on their priority list to deal with it, and we couldn't take title until the neighborhood group went to City Hall wearing buttons and shouting slogans."
Sarah Bundley, who lives across the street in a three-bedroom home with a neat garden and well-swept sidewalk, had to strain to remember when the building first became derelict. "Let's see, my granddaughter was a baby then, and now she's in high school," she said, "so it's been about 17 years."
Within a few blocks, Hands just completed work on a house at 153 Elm Street. "Every month at the meetings of neighborhood groups, this house and the one next to it were the topic of conversation," he said. The building at 153 Elm was a two-family house, occupied by several tenants whose rent was paid by the federal Section 8 housing assistance program. It was abandoned long ago by its owner, and the tenants in turn rented out some of its rooms. The downstairs became a "party room," as Mr. Meyer put it. 
Elizabeth Jackson, who lives down the block in a Hands house she purchased in 1996, called it "worse than an eyesore." She said that about two-thirds of the residents of the block had been there 20 years or more and were obviously committed to their neighborhood -- but felt trapped in their homes by "a lot of young people hanging on the corner, swarming around at night."
The house had fallen into the Hands of a bank in San Diego that held a $110,000 mortgage, collected the subsidized rents but was two years behind on paying taxes. Hands arranged financing to relocate the tenants, rent-paying and otherwise, and totally rehabilitate the building, but could not manage to get the bank to respond.
That required the services of Ms. Jackson, who is not only a community activist now serving on the Hands board, but also a community policing specialist with the Orange Police Department for 20 years. 
She provided copies of the police activity logs showing nightly calls to that address and weekly conference calls with the ward councilman, and these were faxed to the bank. 
"The bank quickly hired an appraiser from Saddle River, who arrived at the house after dark one evening, driving a Lexus," Mr. Meyer recounted. "He gave a kid $10 to watch the car, but never did go inside the house. The place really, really smelled, for one thing. I just gave him the data, and that's how we got the house."
HANDS took ownership of the place for $35,000, made it over into one of the nicest houses on the block, painted it sparkling white and sold it to a man and his family.
Meanwhile, the organization has just managed to acquire title to the troubled house next door and is preparing to do a makeover there. It will be the 62nd house that the group has either built or renovated. 
On the other side of 153, there had been a "For Sale" sign out front during much of the title-search saga. But one day after much of the work had been done at the Hands house, Mr. Morrissey noticed the sign was down and repairmen and painters were at work on the neighboring house. "What's going on?" Mr. Morrissey said he asked the owner when he appeared on the front lawn.
"He says to me, 'Don't you know? They're fixing up that place there, and the whole neighborhood is going to go up.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohammed Momo, with Wayne Meyer of Hands, in front of Mr. Momo's home at 153 Elm Street, Orange. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); FAMILY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); CITIES (72%); POVERTY RATES (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (69%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (69%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (54%); RELIGION (53%) HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

ORGANIZATION: HANDS (ORGN) 

PERSON: MARTIN, ANTOINETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; EAST ORANGE (NJ); ORANGE (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



762 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
Business Founder at 14, Old Hand at 20

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH 

 BODY:
RON LAZAR remembers meeting Gregory Galant three years ago at a Chamber of Commerce dinner in Huntington. Mr. Lazar, a commercial broker in Melville who graduated from Dartmouth College in 1953, didn't realize he was chatting with a poised if precocious member of Huntington High School's class of 2001. Mr. Lazar invited him to attend the next meeting of the chamber committee he chairs on economic development.
 A longtime member of the Huntington chamber, whom Mr. Lazar declined to identify, witnessed their conversation. "He says to me, 'Don't you know you were talking to a high school kid!' " Mr. Lazar recalled. "I guess he meant, 'Don't waste your time.' I ignored him. High school kid or not, Greg was already a businessman. I knew I wasn't wasting my time." 
 Mr. Lazar's opinion was borne out when Mr. Galant (pronounced GAL-ant) showed up at the next committee meeting and volunteered to write a business plan for the group, a task long deferred by the members. Mr. Lazar gave him a shot at it. A week later Mr Galant handed over a thick document explaining the committee's mission and suggesting a detailed plan of action. 
Mr. Lazar was impressed.
Mr. Galant turned 20 on Sept. 10 and earlier this month started his sophomore year at Emory University in Atlanta. He shows no sign of allowing his status as an undergraduate to slow down the growth of his Web development business on Long Island. The business is called Halenet, after the Halesite neighborhood of Huntington where he grew up and where his family still lives. He also remains active in the Huntington chamber, where he continues to meet potential customers and chat up people who may be decades older but who may also need a new Web site.
Age has never been an issue with Mr. Galant, who started his business when he was 14. Over the phone, he is as poised and confident as someone twice his age. In person, he appears years older. Older people sometimes use his youth as an excuse to bargain harder, he said, and peers don't always understand his entrepreneurial drive. It still rankles that his freshman classmates nicknamed him Bill Gates and that clients sometimes balked at signing contracts with a minor.
"I don't think age is important," he said. "What matters is that you understand business. I've been doing Web sites about as long as anybody else. Of course, Web sites haven't been around all that long."
Mr. Galant said that joining the chamber was a wise decision. He sent his check in by mail, so chamber officials did not know the organization had just enrolled the first high school student in its history. 
Somehow, in spite of college classwork and the hours spent building some 30 Web sites last year, Mr. Galant found time to form a new group at the chamber, the Young Professionals Chamber of Commerce, aimed at encouraging youthful entrepreneurship. 
The group's name is something of a misnomer, since the members are high school and college students. "The thing is, they all aspire to become professionals, and the group is there to help them do that," said Linda Mitchell, a former third-grade teacher and former corporate trainer who now works for the chamber.
This year, for the second consecutive year, Mr. Galant helped William Barrett, a retired executive who is a mentor to many young entrepreneurs on the North Shore, run a series of workshops for the chamber, classes that teach entrepreneurial fundamentals to young people.
The workshops' reputation has now blossomed beyond the adolescent set. Among the participants this year were David Engasser, a 30-year-old aspiring graphic artist, and Donna Inocco, an experienced high school business teacher who wanted to pick up some ideas for her own classes.
"How old am I? I'm 19! " Ms. Inocco said, smiling broadly. 
Throughout the eight workshop sessions, Mr. Galant and Mr. Barrett, who is 75, took turns offering suggestions, asking questions and as often as possible assuring the participants that they were making good progress.
The students included Maddie Warlan and Tessa Coneys, both 13, who made scented soap by hand and sold it through Sensations, a gift shop on Main Street in Huntington. Another was William Palumbo, 17, who buys and sells used cars. Matthew Moore and Kevin Rausro, both 16, developed a plan for a business that would provide entertainment at golf tournaments. Eddie Marcucci, 14, helps out at his father's auto detailing business. Derek Schacker, 16, created customized lawn decorations sold through his mother's landscape design business.
One July evening, at one of the last of the workshops, a graduate from last year, Alex Zelenka, returned to share tales of entrepreneurial success. "Like Mr. Barrett says, you can't sit there and hope it happens -- you've got to take action to make it happen," said Mr. Zelenka, 19, who was describing how he creates demand for his landscaping business, now in its second year.
Mr. Galant did not offer himself as an example of teenage entrepreneurship, but he could have. His first paying client was a detective agency in Ramsey, N.J. More business followed. Mr. Galant found himself designing Web sites for government agencies, small local businesses and some nonprofit groups. In 2000 he joined the Long Island Web Developers Guild, submitted one of his Web sites and won an award for it.
He estimates that he will earn $30,000 this year designing Web sites. While paltry by the dot-com standards of several years ago, the amount is hardly insignificant, considering Mr. Galant works part time as a site developer and full time as a student some 700 miles away. The amount, in fact, is probably more than some professional Web developers will make this year. 
The field has thinned out lately, but Mr. Galant said that he, for one, was not lacking for business. He does an increasing amount of what's called back-end work, that is, improving the way a Web site processes information. For this, most of his clients are other Web developers who lack the necessary computer programming skills.
Mr. Galant believes a Web developer's No. 1 task is to create a site that works efficiently. "Many sites fail because they aren't useful," he said. "You take one look and say, 'A designer did this site,' or 'A programmer did this site.' The design is beautiful but serves no purpose. Or the site is filled with movement but gives you no information and doesn't let you really do anything."
Mr. Galant said he focused on the purpose of a given Web site and tried to organize the site around his client's business needs. "A lot of it is common sense," he said.
Aside from the preoccupations with his business, Mr. Galant is sorting out whether to major in business or liberal arts at Emory. He is leaning toward a business major, but his friends at the Chamber of Commerce, including Mr. Lazar, are urging him toward liberal arts.
"He can always return for a master's degree in business later on," Mr. Lazar said.
Of course, when you're 20, "later on" may seem an eternity away.
"I don't know where I'll be in 10 years, let alone 5," Mr. Galant said. "But I'm certain whatever it is will involve technology and that I'll be in business for myself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gregory Galant, now 20 and a sophomore at Emory University, began his own Web company while a student at Huntington High School.; Alex Zelenka, 19, who runs his own landscaping business, spoke at one of Mr. Galant's summer workshops for young entrepreneurs. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (64%); WEB SITES (62%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SMALL BUSINESS; CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (84%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%) GALANT, GREGORY; STRUGATCH, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%) GEORGIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%) HUNTINGTON (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



763 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Connecticut; 
Downtown New Haven's Multifaceted Rehabilitation

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
THREE years ago, New Haven rejected the idea of stimulating its economy by building a one-million-square-foot mall on its waterfront. A lawsuit filed against the city by the Connecticut Post Mall in Milford was a contributing factor.
 "It became clear to us," said New Haven's mayor, John DeStefano Jr., "that you ought to compete in areas where you can win, and so we wrapped our arms around the arts, biosciences and downtown residential development. It was from taking stock of inventory that we figured out what we could do to succeed." 
 The inventory began with Yale University, its investment in upgrading blighted streets and supporting fledgling bioscience companies, its repertory theater, art gallery, center for British art and concert series. The list continued with Long Wharf Theater, New Haven Symphony, Creative Arts Center, Educational Center for the Arts, Shubert Performing Arts Center, Palace Theater, four other colleges and universities, several national historic districts and three local ones -- with architecturally significant restored Victorian homes. 
Henry Fernandez, the city's economic development administrator, has worked for three years toward a five-year goal. In two more years, he said, "we will have rehabilitated the 50-square-block area of downtown New Haven, almost entirely with private money," except for $30 million provided by the state in 2001, of which $13 million has been used for housing redevelopment.
"Recognition of the commercial value of science and research labs," the mayor said, "brought developers who wanted to develop space for them, lawyers who wanted to service them. Retailers took notice of the fact that we have the largest population of 20- to 34-year-olds in the state." 
On a Saturday night, just south of the New Haven Green along Chapel, Temple, Crown and College Streets, there are new restaurants, smart shops, nightclubs, galleries and a sidewalk market several blocks long jammed with residents, suburbanites and some of Yale's 11,000 students. Crime, a major concern, has dropped from 21,000 incidents in 1990 to 10,000 so far this year and murders have declined from 35 in 1990 to 7 so far this year.
At long last, the failed Chapel Square Mall is getting a reprise. Williams Jackson Ewing of Baltimore, which had a leading role in the redevelopment of Grand Central Terminal as well as of Union Station in Washington and numerous other locations, has purchased the property. In partnership with College Street L.L.C. of New Haven and Lubert-Adler, a Philadelphia investment firm, it will help to reposition the mall as a retail, office and market-rate residential complex. "We are in the process of relocating existing tenants and resolving a lawsuit brought by some who don't want to move," said W. Lehr Jackson, a principal in the redevelopment firm.
The ground floor and second floor, with 214,540 square feet of retail and restaurant space now facing inside the building, will open onto Crown, Temple and Church Streets. The office tower above will contain four floors of 44 market-rate apartments, and seven floors become upscale offices. 
Standing on one full block each of Church Street are Macy's and Malley's department stores, both vacant for years. The city is considering moving Gateway Community College from its Long Wharf location into the two stores and joining them across George Street. But the prestigious Long Wharf Theater, whose lease expires in 2007, is considering the two department store blocks for its future home, while the city would prefer that the theater, a hotel and conference center form a complex at the site of the Veterans Memorial Coliseum, scheduled for demolition within a year. Jerry Meyer, president of the theater's board, said, "We voted to negotiate with the city, but we are looking at several sites." 
Meanwhile, Ikea, the Swedish home-furnishings chain, has agreed to buy the Pirelli-Armstrong Tire and Rubber Building at Long Wharf. The building, designed by Marcel Breuer, has state landmark status. "We have submitted applications to the Board of Aldermen and the Planning Commission," Patrick Smith, an Ikea spokesman, said, "and we expect construction to start in the spring of 2003." The rear of the building will be demolished but the landmark facade will remain. A 300,000-square-foot store will be built to the south side of the facade, and the rest of the 19.26-acre property will have parking for 1,336 cars.
One of the city's most beautiful buildings is the former headquarters of the Southern New England Telephone Company at 227 Church Street, which is being converted into 143 luxury apartments by ELK Investors of New York City. Morry Kalimian, a principal in ELK, bought the property some years ago for about $2 million, but delayed renovations until he was assured that the city would build a parking garage on land he owns behind the SNET building.
"You can't charge top rent and not have parking," he said. The studio, one-bedroom and two-bedroom apartments will have hardwood floors, cherry cabinets, granite countertops, cast-iron bathtubs, 10-foot-high ceilings and a washer and dryer in every apartment. 
Another building that was converted to apartments opened in May and is fully occupied. It was developed by College Street L.L.C. and Lubert-Adler. The 187,000- square-foot-building, the former Strouse-Adler girdle factory, was reconfigured into 146 one- and two-bedroom apartments that rent for $900 to $2,950 a month. Young professionals are attracted to its semi-industrial features, including the massive original wood beams supported by steel girders in 20-by-25-foot living rooms with 15-foot-high ceilings and enormous windows. The building contains a fitness room, billiard room and a courtyard garden with a wrought iron gazebo. 
OPPOSITE the southeast corner of the Green, a residential project completed in the 90's transformed a derelict neighborhood into a handsome mix of new and rehabilitated buildings with 350 apartments. It won numerous awards for Herbert S. Newman & Partners of New Haven. 
Mr. Newman, a member of the faculty at Yale's School of Architecture, is now working on rehabilitating an 1860's structure and the contiguous 1928 Woolworth Building, converting the interiors to market-rate studio, one-bedroom and two-bedroom duplex apartments just off the Green. They will contribute to a total of 250 newly redeveloped downtown apartments. The ground floor will be reserved for commercial use, and the facades will be retained to comply with National Historic District rules. 
"Apartments here are at a premium," said Barbara Pearce, co-owner of the H. Pearce Residential Real Estate Company, "and we're still seeing people who bought homes in the mid-80's who can't get back what they paid. The average sale is around $85,000, up from $75,000 two years ago." 
Nevertheless, homes in the $200,000 range sell quickly, according to Nellie Oldenwaelder, manager of Pearce's New Haven office. "Houses at $400,000 and over don't last long," she said, "even though taxes are high. A $400,000 house on a 90-by-200-foot lot is taxed between $9,000 and $10,000." Tax-exempt institutions make up 45 percent of New Haven's real estate, which increases taxes on other property.
Carl Traub, head of Traub & Company, a commercial real estate firm, is concerned about the current redevelopment. "There is a ceaseless demand for apartments, because people want to live here -- there's so much to do. But I have a problem putting a residential building like the SNET conversion in the middle of the city's financial district and converting part of the Chapel Square Mall to apartments when we need office space. I worry about a saturation of residential property." He takes little comfort in the construction of one 60,000-square-foot downtown office building, the city's first speculative commercial building in a decade, at One Audubon Street, developed by the Acorn Group.
With office vacancies well below 10 percent, Richard Guralnick, managing director of Insignia/ESG's New Haven office, noted that "Connecticut Financial Center has some sublet space left by United Illuminating at $30 a foot," although the New Haven norm is high teens to low $20's a square foot. 
Biotechnology, observers say, appears to be the city's new industry. "Graduates coming out of the Yale Medical School start in Science Park" (a Yale-sponsored incubator), Mr. Guralnick said, "then branch out on their own, assisted by Yale and venture capital. The university anticipates six to eight start-ups a year." 
Several mature firms are housed at 300 George Street, a 550,000-square- foot building once owned by Southern New England Telephone that the Winstanley family, which has a privately held real estate firm in Concord, Mass., has repositioned. Bioscience companies in the area include Curagen, Achillion Pharmaceuticals, Molecular Staging, Rib-X Pharmaceuticals, Sopherion Therapeutics, VaxInnate, Bion, Alexion and Genaissance. "They have settled in and around New Haven, but New Haven is the core," Mr. Guralnick said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The former SNET building, left of monument, will have 143 apartments. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) Map of New Haven shows surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CITIES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); ART DEALERS (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); LAWYERS (74%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (71%); THEATER COMPANIES (69%); TRENDS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); RETAILERS (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%) RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOUSING; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR; FERNANDEZ, HENRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW HAVEN (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



764 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Emergency Workers Will Get Tax Breaks 

BYLINE:  By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
THE Towns of Babylon and Huntington have voted to become the first municipalities on Long Island to award a partial property tax exemption to volunteer firefighters and ambulance personnel.
 The action comes at a time when Long Island officials are looking a ways to attract and retain volunteers, who would be crucially important in any terrorist attack. Fire officials in both Nassau and Suffolk said recruits increased after Sept. 11. 
The new exemption, authorized for Suffolk County in just-enacted state legislation introduced by Assemblyman Steve Levy, Democrat of Holbrook, and Senator Caesar Trunzo, Republican of Brentwood, will be a pittance initially, amounting to a saving of only $9 in town taxes for the Babylon volunteers who qualify. 
"I'll buy a pizza or something with it," said Robert Bodenmiller, the chief of the town's East Farmingdale Fire Company, who nonetheless expressed gratitude and applauded the town action.
Mr. Levy said last week that he had filed amendments that would allow Suffolk County and its towns, villages and school districts the option of authorizing property tax exemptions of 10 percent of assessed value for the county's estimated 10,000 firefighters and several thousand ambulance workers. An apparent flaw in the language of the law pinned the exemption to equalization rates, leading to the low amount in Babylon. Mr. Levy said the amendment would correct this. 
A separate law for Nassau will allow the county and its towns, villages and two cities to grant a similar exemption. That measure, introduced by Assemblyman David Sidikman, Democrat of Plainview, and Senator Carl Marcellino, Republican of Oyster Bay. was enacted last month, but it does not extend the exemption option to school districts, Mr. Sidikman's office said. 
Last week, the Democratic majority in the Nassau County Legislature introduced a bill that would allow the estimated 10,000 volunteer firefighters and an unknown number of ambulance workers a 10 percent break on county taxes. David Denenberg, Democrat of Merrick, said the cost to the county would be about $1.2 million, assuming all the volunteers were eligible. A vote could come as early as next month.
Oyster Bay and Hempstead are considering town exemptions. 
To qualify in Suffolk, volunteers must be property owners with at least five years as active members of their local fire departments or volunteer ambulance services. After 20 years' service, the exemption will become lifelong.
Other taxpayers would make up the difference for the exemptions. Mr. Levy said the cost should be measured against the benefits of maintaining Suffolk's 109 volunteer fire departments.
"This is a tax saver in the long run because without incentives, we will have to go to a paid force, which will cost a fortune," he said. If the 10,000 volunteer firefighters earned an average of $50,000 in salary and benefits, maintaining paid departments would cost $500 million a year. 
The exemption is in addition to pension benefits many volunteers accrue under a state law that allows up to $20 a year in credits, multiplied by years of service, or up to $400 a month for a volunteer active for 20 years. Property owners pay for the pensions in taxes collected by fire districts, villages and towns.
Mr. Levy said the new property tax exemption provided a more immediate incentive. "A lot of people don't want to wait until they retire to see a savings," he said. 
Steven Bellone, the Babylon supervisor, said he hoped the town's action would influence other governments and school districts to follow suit. "It's a way to say thank you," he said. "We have to be very thankful we have men and women who are willing to do this."
Robert J. Gaffney, Suffolk's county executive, supports the exemption for the county share of property taxes. Two county legislators have proposed bills to would enact it, but a vote may be delayed until the state law is amended to assure the full 10 percent tax break.
Robert Lipp, the principal economist for the County Legislature's Budget Review Office, said a 10 percent reduction in county taxes would save the average volunteer $85 a year. He said the savings would be only $14 as the law is currently written.
In East Farmingdale, Chief Bodenmiller said that the Babylon action was an indicator that more incentives might be on the way. "It's a start," he said. "But I wish there was something more we could do to give an incentive to young people."
He said pension benefits seemed more of an attraction to volunteers in or near middle age. "These are the people worried about their future and their retirement," he said.
Mr. Bodenmiller said he worried that other taxpayers would feel put-upon by financial incentives for volunteers. "Somebody is going to have to pay for it," he said. "At what point will people say, 'Hey, don't we already pay enough?' " 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (92%); TAX LAW (92%); VOLUNTEERS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); PARAMEDICS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); TERRORISM (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FIRES AND FIREMEN; AMBULANCES; VOLUNTEERS 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) BABYLON (NY); HUNTINGTON (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



765 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2091 words

HEADLINE: Who Slept Here? Well-Preserved Homes Reveal All 

BYLINE:  By R. W. STEVENSON 

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT is a hotbed of historic houses.
 There are 162 houses that have been turned into museums in a state with 169 cities and towns, according to a Web site maintained by the University of Connecticut library. 
 "I think the very DNA of our civilization has been lovingly preserved and cared for in these distinctively American museums," said William Hosley, 46, the executive director of the Antiquarian and Landmarks Society, a Hartford organization that owns and operates nine historic house museums across Connecticut.
Some professionals in the field would qualify this rosy appraisal. The American Association for State and Local History and the National Trust for Historic Preservation sponsored a forum in April 2002 to examine what the participants termed "museum malaise." Having praised house museums as "the bedrock of the American preservation movement," Richard Moe, president of the National Trust said, "The current crop of house museums suffers from a distressing sameness." 
Other participants complained that house museums were too focused on dead, rich white guys and that they shelter "too damn many spinning wheels."
Given ferment in the field, what can we learn from these houses today?
A visit to five historic house museums in Connecticut shows that while you can still find tales about men -- iconic figures like George Washington and Nathan Hale -- historians and community volunteers are creating fresh programs to attract new audiences, vignettes drawn from history studied from the bottom up.
"Everyone you read about in traditional history books depended on people who never made it into those same history books," said Diane Cameron, a historian and researcher with a particular interest in the African-Americans who lived and worked at the three houses comprising the Webb-Deane-Stevens Museum in Wethersfield.
For seven years Ms. Cameron has scoured the scanty records to bring to life these formerly unnoticed people. She and her colleagues have learned enough to put together a tour at Webb-Deane-Stevens Museum that focuses on the lives of 15 different African-Americans in Wethersfield.
"We want to show the enslaved as more than tools," said Ms. Cameron, "to show them as people essential to the houses, the economy, the community, the changing culture, people with their own identities and cultures that helped them survive in new and unimaginable circumstances."
The vigor of the colonial revival movement in the early 20th century helped create today's Webb-Deane-Stevens Museum, where Jennifer Eifrig is the director and Donna Keith Baron is the curator.
In May of 1781, George Washington really did sleep at the Webb House, and you can see the room he stayed in, complete with the wallpaper that was put up in anticipation of his visit.
Washington and his entourage met with the French general Rochambeau, and the two generals and their aides planned the campaign that ended with the defeat of Lord Cornwallis at Yorktown, Va., in October 1781. 
This sort of iconic history was irresistible to the people and organizations driving house restorations a century ago. Wallace Nutting, a pioneer figure in house restoration and other antiquarian pursuits, bought the Webb House in 1914.
The National Society of the Colonial Dames of America in Connecticut bought it from Nutting and later acquired the other two houses that make up the complex.
The Webb House was built in 1752 by Joseph Webb Sr., a Wethersfield merchant who died in 1761, leaving a wife, Mehitabel, six children and a very tangled estate. The widow Webb sought the assistance of Silas Deane, a newly minted lawyer who straightened out her affairs and then married her.
In 1766, Deane built a new house adjacent to the Webb House, a dwelling from which he was very often absent during the years of the American Revolution.
Silas Deane represented Connecticut in both the first and second Continental Congresses, and in 1776 became America's first accredited diplomat, working with Benjamin Franklin and Richard Lee to extract badly needed money and supplies from the French government.
Hubris and carelessness with his accounts apparently brought Deane down. He somehow antagonized the powerful Lee family of Virginia. Rumors about his deployment of funds began to circulate, and letters purportedly written by Deane advocating surrender to the British were published.
Despised as a traitor, Silas Deane died in 1789. In 1842 Congress exonerated him and made partial reparations to his heirs.
The Stevens part of the Webb-Deane-Stevens museum reflects no such skulduggery or feats of derring-do. Isaac Stevens was an up-and-coming saddler, born in Glastonbury Conn., who approached the merchant-class Webb family sometime in 1788 and asked if they would like to sell the building lot next to their house.
Cash in hand prevailed over social snobbery, and Stevens got to build his dream house. He and his descendants lived in the house, a typical late 18th-century Connecticut center hall structure, until 1957.
The Colonial Dames then acquired the house, along with all the things the family had accumulated for nearly two centuries.

Notable Boarders
The Hale Homestead in Coventry, Conn., belongs to the Antiquarian & Landmarks Society, a Hartford group founded in 1936 to "preserve historic properties for the benefit of the people of Connecticut."
Nathan Hale is a dead, white male; there is no doubt about that. The British hanged him as a spy on Sept. 22, 1776, in New York City, after he volunteered to venture behind enemy lines to see what intelligence he could gather.
Did he really say, "I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country?"
An English officer named Montresor was on the spot for the execution and reported that he did.
Hale never lived in the buildings that comprise the Hale Homestead in Coventry, but that does not stop 5,000 people a year from making a pilgrimage to the site. 
"This house was built by Deacon Richard Hale, Nathan's father in 1776, the same year Nathan was working for George Washington as a military scout," said Desiree Mobed, the Homestead's site administrator.
But there is plenty of Nathan at the Hale Homestead. Here you can see his fowling piece hanging above a fireplace. You can also gaze at his signature and a little note he made in the family bible. Upstairs there is a full-length silhouette of a young man incised on the back of an 18th-century door that may be of Nathan Hale. He had seven brothers, five of whom served in the Revolution, so it is impossible to be sure. One of Ms. Mobed's favorite stories about Hale reveals that even though he was only 21 when he was executed, he had a full life.
"After he graduated from Yale he was teaching school in New London Conn.," Ms. Mobed said. "In addition to his paid duties teaching boys he began a school for girls that started at 5:30 in the morning. This was two hours before the boys classes began, and two hours before the girls had to start their day's chores around the house and farm."
Hale not only had the courage to face the hangman with a quote that made him famous forever, he also had the guts to go against the prevailing educational notions of his day that girls did not need book learning.
A New Haven patent lawyer and antiquary named George Dudley Seymour bought the Hale property in 1914. He spent many years and many dollars restoring the Hale Homestead and buying the land around it.
Today, the Hale Homestead is in the middle of a 500-acre tract called the Hale Forest, a Connecticut State Park, which means visitors can get a real taste of what life on an 18th-century farm was like.
"People are always amazed at how little stuff our ancestors had," Ms. Mobed said, "particularly the school children."
The Hale Homestead offers a series of what it calls colonial life ways programs for school and scouting groups. These programs give children a taste of the lifestyles, crafts, foods and work habits on a prosperous country farm in the 18th-century.

A Greek Influence
The Solomon Rockwell house in Winsted, a handsome structure built in 1813 in the prevailing Greek Revival style, typifies the kind of lightly endowed house museum that is run by dedicated volunteers.
The Rockwell House is maintained by the Winchester Historical Society, whose president is William P. Weber, and it shelters some surprising holdings. There is a trove of Civil War memorabilia including weapons, uniforms, letters and other documents that genealogy buffs are free to peruse. On the grounds there is an architecturally significant outhouse built in the full Greek Revival style with columns and other classical details.
The Rockwell House owns a collection of nine 19th-century family portraits, including a cache by the well-known itinerant limner Erastus Salisbury Field. In folk art circles, Field is a big name. He is much collected and his paintings fetch major prices.
In April of 1833, Field painted his way through the contiguous towns of Winsted, Winchester Center and Torrington, polishing off a total of 30 portraits in a two-month sojourn. The Field portraits in the Rockwell House are likenesses of Riley Whiting, his wife, Urania Hoadley Whiting, and several of their children. 
Riley Whiting was a clockmaker, a significant figure at the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. Whiting and other Connecticut clockmakers like Silas Hoadley, Seth Thomas and Eli Terry successfully devised and mass-produced wooden works clocks, beginning at the turn of the 19th century.
This invention brought the price of fairly accurate time keeping down from $60 to $5, just in time for the Industrial Revolution. This was when men and women and boys and girls had to get up at an appointed hour and get to the mill on time or risk dismissal.

Folk Traditions
Connecticut houses built before the American Revolution fall into the vernacular or folk category, rather than deriving from academic architecture.
Vernacular architecture, wrote James Deetz and Patricia Scott Deetz in "The Times of Their Lives, Life, Love and Death In Plymouth Colony," does not come from plans, but is the idea of what a house should be like. This idea is carried in the minds of the people and passed down by word of mouth and example.
In the Plymouth Colony, and in the Connecticut Colony of the 17th and early 18th centuries as well, the archetypal house was the hall-and-parlor house, an idea brought by the settlers from England, where it had been the most common form since the Middle Ages.
As the name states, a hall-and-parlor house generally had two first-floor rooms between a centrally placed chimney, with a fireplace in each. Second-story rooms reflected the plan of the first, each named after the room situated beneath it: hall chamber and parlor chamber.
If an addition was made to this basic plan, it was almost always a third room or lean-to built onto the back of the house, which was used as a kitchen.
In the 17th century, homes were meagerly furnished, by today's standards. Kevin Sweeney, a furniture historian, plumbed the probate inventories of the town of Wethersfield to document exactly what people did own in the way of furniture and accessories.
In 1639, Mr. Sweeney found, Richard Gyldersly of Wethersfield owned two beds, one chest, a box, a small cupboard, a table, a few chairs and some stools. The cupboard held some pewter and brass plates while a few pieces of iron cooking equipment were grouped around the fireplace. These sparse holdings were typical of the times.
One hundred years later a middle class was emerging and consumerism was on the rise. By the late 18th century, an average inventory included three beds, two sets of six chairs each, three to four chests, three or four tables, looking glasses, stands, costly forms like high chests of drawers and desks with bookcases, even tall case clocks with brass works.

Let There Be Preservation!
"Home is the definition of God," Emily Dickinson wrote in an 1879 letter, only three years after the Centennial exhibitions of 1876, a nationwide jamboree that celebrated the American Revolution of 1776 and jump-started an abiding interest in old houses and the people who lived in them.
This was the beginning of historic preservation in the United States, a grass-roots movement that saved hundreds of houses, thousands of artifacts and has helped historians and interested citizens understand the meaning of home across the centuries.
It is a rare Connecticut town that does not proudly support a historical society, frequently quartered in a house built in the 17th, 18th or 19th century.

GRAPHIC: Photos: House museums around Connecticut provide an array of peeks into daily life: above, an upstairs bedroom at the Nathan Hale Homestead; from left, the front door of the Silas Deane House in Wethersfield and details of a spindle staircase inside the museum. Other items include: a rocking horse, circa 1805, at the Rockwell house in Winsted; fire buckets at the Stevens house that bear the owner's name; a daybed at the Deane house; and a Windsor chair designed for writing, circa 1790, at the Hale house in Coventry. (Photographs by Mary Haggerty for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (93%); HISTORY (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); LIBRARIES (72%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); VOLUNTEERS (65%) HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; HALE HOMESTEAD (COVENTRY, CONN); SOLOMON ROCKWELL HOUSE (WINSTED, CONN) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (84%); NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (57%) WEBB-DEAN-STEVENS MUSEUM (WETHERSFIELD, CONN) 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



766 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: Bookkeepers 

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DALEY 

 BODY:
"I'LL tell you something," Bill Goring said. He lowered his voice. "Books breed when you're not there. Leave any two books together in a room, and suddenly there are more of them."
 He estimates that he has probably 10,000 books in the house in Torrington that he shares with his wife, Debby, a medical secretary. 
 "I'm a bookseller," he said. "A perfect occupation for me." 
He is a "left-over hippie," he says, so his library is an esoteric collection of books about politics, the occult, religion, philosophy, combat, weaponry, socialism, and anarchy. He tries to keep them in the library, but they are also on shelves in rooms all over the house and in piles on tables and floor and chairs. "It's a big house," he said.
A not-so-big three-bedroom house in Guilford is home to Nona and Kent Bloomer. He is an author, an architect, and a professor at Yale. She works as a reference librarian at the Guilford public library. Together they own too many books. "We're not very disciplined," she said. "They're in piles all over the house. When we have people over, I have to clear off the dining room table so we can eat."
What to do with the books you own is a sweet problem. Cormac O'Malley is a lawyer who splits his 4,000-book library between his Manhattan apartment and his home on the water in Stonington Borough. 
"I keep all the history here in Connecticut," he said, "and the art stuff, I keep in New York." 
What about books that don't really fit in either category? When his wife, Moira, couldn't find a book entitled "Real Lace," she thought it was lost and bought a replacement.
"You should have asked me," her husband told her. "I knew exactly where it was." He walked over and pulled it off the shelf. "Right here in the Irish-American history section."
If the O'Malleys are challenged with 4,000 books, consider the Connerys: they have over 16,000. 
"A book becomes part of you," said Donald Connery, "and it's impossible to part with one." 
When the Connerys were married in 1950, they each had dozens of books. Then, over the years, he was a foreign correspondent, an author, a legal consultant. She was a special education teacher, a firefighter, and an emergency medical technician. They read books on foreign countries, international affairs, biographies, psychological studies, travelogues, books on sports, volumes of poetry, best-sellers, classics and junky paperbacks. They stored them on shelves, under tables, in boxes in their attics and basements and bedrooms -- and when they moved to their farm in Kent 30 years ago, they kept them in boxes in the barn.
But the tall fieldstone silo stood empty; a solid waste of space, they decided. In 1988, with the help of their son Eric, an architect, the Connerys created a lighthouse of a library, three stories tall, with a staircase spiraling through the center. Then they arranged their books on the shelves by subject matter. First floor: magazines, baseball, media childhood books, economics Broadway; second floor: Russia, Japan, China, India, Europe and American history; third floor: fiction and biographies.
Everybody one has a system. Leslie Singer and Ron Hook live with their two children in Westport in a big house stuffed with beautiful things and hundreds of books. "I tried to categorize them," said Ms. Singer, a designer of women's accessories. "And there is a sort of order to it all. Biographies here, art books there. Books that I use for work are in my studio, but really the books are arranged for the enjoyment of whoever's in the house."
This means a small stack of books carefully chosen for the guest room, according to who will be their weekend guests. It means changing the order of the art books displayed under the glass coffee table and keeping the children's books at a convenient height for six-year-old Andrew and eight-year-old Melina. "I rotate books to keep up with what we're doing or what people are talking about," she said. "Cookbooks, however, are Ron's department."
Ms. Singer's husband, Ron Hook, is a professional chef, formerly of the Doral Saturnia Spa in Miami, so the kitchen is his personal library, as well as his office and where he teaches cooking classes like "Survival Cooking for College Freshman" and private lessons for the more adventurous. Mr. Hook's favorite cookbooks and books and articles on culinary trends are piled up on the counter. Basics and the exotic are shelved in the kitchen bookcase.
Inglis Hale is a Woodbury antiques dealer. Her home is filled with French bowls, silver candlesticks, glass platters and deep-hued vases. Her primary bookcase is an unused staircase. "The encyclopedias are at the top of the stairs. You know, because encyclopedias are lofty. Then come the classics, which I like to reread, and then further down the stairs are a few books on relationships and self-improvement, and the bottom is chock full of quick reference and how-to books -- books I refer to all the time."
Craig Nelson confesses that his books are out of control. Mr. Nelson lives in Warren with his wife, Sandy, and their three children. They built the house about four years ago, and there is a formal library, but books are all over the house. .
His collection is an eclectic reference library on everything from Freemasonry to bird-watching, archaeology, cooking and railroads. It's information he craves, not books; so he has a lot of things that aren't books. There are town brochures and political pamphlets, stapled-together pages, articles from magazines, printed-up sermons, oversized books of maps and tiny paperbacks.
Much of it doesn't fit nicely onto bookshelves, so things are in drawers and file cabinets and boxes and they are piled and stacked and spread out on nearly every available flat surface of the house.
Improbably, he says he knows exactly where everything is. Local schoolchildren often use his library, but he accompanies them through the house because often it is only he who can find what they need. "And I am concerned they won't put it back where it belongs," he said, "because it doesn't look like there's a system -- but there is."
An antiques collector and dealer by trade -- he owns and manages the Village Barn and Gallery in New Preston -- he needs endless bits of information, dates and history.
"I use the Internet as much as I can," he said, "but nothing can take the place of a book. I like that printed piece of paper." Then he smiled and added:" And poetry. I have to read poetry from a book. You can't read poetry off a computer screen!"
Although some makeshift libraries, like Ms. Hale's staircase and Ms. Bloomer's dining room table, are inventions of accident or necessity, some are by design. David Paletsky, of David Paletsy Real Estate in Litchfield, says that he sees a decline in formal libraries in the houses that are selling today. 
"There may be a room which is designated as an office," he said, "but people change rooms to suit the way they live. They would rather create 'book areas' in many rooms rather than have all the books in one place."
M. J. Rose, author of, most recently, a suspense novel called "Flesh Tones," once rented a charming house in Greenwich, but oddly, there was no wall between the homely utilitarian kitchen and the living room. "So we built a bookcase to divide the space," she said. "It served a dual purpose, and we could take it with us when we moved."
Books on shelves, books stacked on the floor, books in baskets and leather boxes: they make a room warm and inviting. Decorators know this and make use of books in their work. 
"We often buy books by the yard to fill walls of bookcases," saidMary Foley, an interior designer in Bethel, "but we also create tableaus, like a still life, on tabletops and counters and shelves: a book, a silver bowl, a heavy round glass votive or a tiny vase of flowers. It's pretty to look at, and it's temporary. It looks like someone is using it, living there."
But what to do with books you have no room for? Books you read and didn't like or used and don't need? Duplicates? Besides the obvious quick-remedies like Goodwill, local libraries, and the book-exchange racks at the train station, book-lovers are getting inventive.
Mr. Nelson found a bookseller who will give him store credit for books for which he has no use. "It works for both of us," Mr. Nelson said.
Louis Mackall, an architect, created the Joshua Cove Book Club, an informal book exchange among the people who work in his Guilford office and a small circle of friends.
For book-lovers everywhere, there is www.BookCrossing.com, an ambitious book-exchange program, kind of like sport fishing, where people can "read and release" a favorite book into the wild. First register the book with www.bookcrossing.com and then release it for someone else to read by leavingit in a conspicuous spot, like a park bench, a restaurant or a coffee shop.
That concept doesn't work for everybody. 
"Oh, you can't get rid of books," Nona Bloomer said. "That's sacrilegious."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A silo, top, on Donald Connery's land in Kent has been converted into a library, holding 16,000 books. Bill Goring, above, says he has about 10,000 books in his Torrington house.; Ron Hook, top, and Leslie Singer use the stack method to store their books in their Westport home. That method includes putting cookbooks on the kitchen countertop and, middle, miniature books in the guest bathroom. Bottom, inside the Connery's silo library. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. 11); Inglis Hale in her Westport home, where an unused staircase holds books. She keeps the encyclopedias at the top, because they are "lofty." (C. M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); BOOKSTORES (73%); HISTORY (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); POETRY (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); PARAMEDICS (60%); RELIGION (55%) INTERIOR DESIGN; SPECIAL SECTIONS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

PERSON: DALEY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



767 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2546 words

HEADLINE: A Number Story 

BYLINE:  By DEBRA NUSSBAUM 

 BODY:
PERHAPS a remedial mathematics course would have helped. Or a sharper look at current events.
 Whatever the solution, the situation is this: New Jersey's public school enrollment is soaring at a rate even the state Department of Education did not predict when it last tallied the numbers in 1998. And with those numbers still growing and no increase in state aid this year, the concerns over crowded classrooms, a shortage of adequate staff and steeper property tax bills are putting the problems in sharper relief. 
 The numbers tell the story:
*When schools opened in Wayne Township this month, there were 8,701 students -- 2,100 more pupils than the suburban community had only seven years ago -- clamoring at the doors. 
*In Greenwich Township, in Warren County, an area that is quickly being transformed from a rural area into a suburb, there were about 350 students in kindergarten through eighth grade six years ago, far fewer than the 900 enrolled today. The school population is growing so rapidly that a week after a new school opened last year, ground was broken on an addition that would double its size.
*In Cherry Hill, where the number of students rose to 11,349 this fall from 10,245 in September 1997, a committee of educators and parents met all summer to figure out how to best cope with the growth in a district where numbers are expected to reach 12,000 in the next few years. Only three years ago, the district took a school building it had converted into administrative offices in the early 1980's and reopened it as a middle school.
*In Washington Township, Mercer County, voters approved a bond issue in 2001 to build a high school in the district, which now sends its students to nearby Lawrence High School. The number of students in elementary and middle school is 1,419, and growing by a rate of 12 to 13 percent a year.
*In Evesham Township -- where the student population in elementary and middle school has grown by 200 students a year for 12 years and is now at 5,500 -- several trailers were used as classrooms until a new school and additions were approved in 1999.
This year, the state estimated the number of public school students at 1,367,431, a jump of more than 30,000 from the 2001-2 school year and up more than 300,000 from 1989.
For the most part, the numbers seem to be going up in the state's suburban districts, where additions as well as entirely new schools are being built, and in the Abbott districts -- the 30 poorest districts -- where enrollment went to 288,318 in 2001 from 278,966 in 1997.
In July 1998, the state Department of Education predicted that enrollment would peak during the 2003-4 school years with 1,196,939 students and that by 2007, that number would drop to about 1.1 million.
"Obviously we're dramatically above those numbers now," said Rich Vespucci, a spokesman for the department. "Those projections are not holding. It's going up 20,000 to 30,000 students a year."
At one time, educators did not think the student population would rise beyond 1.4 million, Mr. Vespucci said. "Obviously if it keeps going like this, we'll exceed 1.4 million. In a state like New Jersey, there are so many variables and factors."
For one thing, there is the boomer echo. The baby boomers were born from 1946 and 1964, overwhelming the nation's schools in the 1950's and 60's. Today, their children are crowding those same hallways and filling new classrooms.
But there is much more. The biggest factor in underestimating the upswing was immigration. Dr. James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, noting that from 1990 to 2000, the state saw a net gain of 400,000 immigrants.
"That's where the projections went awry," Dr. Hughes said.
For now, Dr. Hughes sees the numbers starting to level off -- perhaps with some ups and downs -- and no drastic decline as in the late 1970's and early 80's that led to the closing of many schools.
While the entire state has been affected by immigration, several individual districts have seen their numbers rise because of new housing developments, a turnover of homes from empty nesters to families with children, and movement out of New York and Philadelphia.
Sarah Weissman, who consults with more than 30 districts in the state to help them project enrollment figures, says schools can be affected by new industry moving in the area or a "reputation bump" after favorable reports come out about a district.
Like Dr. Hughes, Ms. Weissman does not see a sharp decline in the number of students in the near future, but she does say that high school enrollment should peak in 2007 or 2008 and then begin to level off or slightly decline.
"The problem every community discusses is how to accommodate this birth peak and not overbuild," she said.
Many districts throughout the state are grappling with that costly calculation right now. Last Tuesday, voters approved $427 million in proposed spending for new construction, additions and renovations -- of which about 25 percent will be paid by the state. In the 27 districts where school spending proposals were being considered, 85 percent of the referendums passed. Since 2000, voters in New Jersey have approved more than $2.72 billion in school bond issues. In 2001, $970 million was approved by voters for school building projects -- representing a significant upswing from 1997 and 1998 when less than $500 million was approved in each of those years. In addition to the money approved last week, voters had already passed $708 million in bond referendums so far this year.
"One of our main concerns is that we don't overbuild," said Paul Harren, the superintendent in Washington Township Public Schools, in Mercer County.
Nonetheless, voters there last December approved a bond issue to build its own high school rather than continue to send students out of district. The high school will open in 2004 in a district that has a total of 1,737 students, with a steady growth of 12 to 13 percent a year.
Of course, like many other educators, Mr. Harren would like more help from the state to deal with the rapid growth.
"We could use a little more understanding in terms of state aid," he said. "It really leaves the burden to the local community."
The situation was so acute in Greenwich Township in Warren County that in December 2000, voters were asked to approve a bond issue for an addition on a school that was still under construction. The Greenwich School opened last September, and ground was broken on the addition one week later.
The district -- which is attracting parents who work in the state's pharmaceutical and software industries as well as those commuting to Manhattan -- has about 900 children in kindergarten through eighth grade and expects the student population to increase by about 300 over the next four years, said the superintendent, Dr. Kevin Brennan.
"It's been very concentrated enrollment growth," said Dr. Brennan. "We've gone as high as 28 to 29 students in a classroom."
The average size is now between 24 and 25, and he hopes to take that to the low 20's when the addition opens next fall.
"It's a horrendous situation for the local taxpayer," Dr. Brennan said. "People say, 'We can only pay so much.' It's a practical issue."
Dr. Brennan, who has been superintendent in Greenwich Township for seven years, put it this way: "It's overwhelming. You drive down the street in the morning, and in the evening there would be houses framed."
Traci King, president of the Parent Teacher Organization in the district, has three children in the schools there and has also witnessed the explosive growth over the past five years.
"You could see the influx of people moving into our community," Ms. King said.
She criticized the state government for freezing state aid at a time when student enrollment was soaring. "You go to the school and there are massive amounts of kids," she said. "The children are the ones who really get hurt by this."
The creeping size of classes has become a thorny issues in many suburban school districts in recent years. And with school budgets stagnant, many districts have had to reduce the number of teachers and classroom aides, resulting in larger classes.
"Right now, with the state budget situation, districts are in a tight bind in being able to afford staff," said Steve Wollmer, a spokesman for the New Jersey Education Association. "Teaching should never be an issue of crowd control."
That is precisely what happened in Haddonfield, in South Jersey, this summer, when parents went to the Board of Education after learning that fifth-grade classes in two schools would have 27 students in a classroom.
According to Dr. Joseph Serico, the assistant superintendent there, enrollment his district has risen to 2,300 students this year from 1,770 students in 1991.
For now the district is in the final stages of completing additions and renovations to its schools after passing a $26 million bond issue two years ago. In addition, the district has brought in a part-time teacher for math so that students can be broken into groups and a language arts specialist to help in the larger classes.
"I think obviously the best thing is small class sizes," said Molly Webb, a parent in the district with a fifth-grade child. 
But Ms. Webb, herself a former teacher, says she thinks it is possible to teach effectively in the higher elementary grades with slightly larger numbers if the students are divided into learning groups. 
"You need strong classroom management," she said.
There is no mystery why some districts are swelling. When a district has a good reputation, people want to be there. In Wayne Township, for example, enrollment has gone up by about 300 students a year for the past seven years for a current total of 8,701 students. 
"People want to come here," said Dr. Richard Linkh, the superintendent, noting that by 2007 he expects 10,000 students. "The real draw is the school system."
Like many districts, Wayne found itself closing school buildings in the early 1980's, and by 1989, the school population was under 6,000. Now the district has put additions on buildings and re-opened one of the closed schools that was being used for office space.
At this point, Dr. Linkh believes growth will level off by about 2010.
Andrew McIlvaine, a former president of school board in Cherry Hill, identified the problem there and in many districts as the "double whammy."
"We have increasing enrollment and aging facilities," said Mr. McIlvaine. "These problems are common to suburban schools in New Jersey."
In Cherry Hill, where the average building age is 35, the issue is not only a shortage of space but also a need to upgrade facilities to keep up with technology.
For now, there is one committee recommendation on the table there to open a third high school that could be a magnet school or a school that all students attend during some part of their high school years by creating flexible spaces to be used for different activities.
Districts going through dramatic enrollment increases will find that the biggest battle is over money for teachers as well as buildings. As Edwina Lee, executive director of the New Jersey School Boards Association, said, schools in the state are "reeling" from the current budget crunch even as they continue to face a growing number of students.
"We do everything before we impact the classroom, but ultimately the classroom will be affected," she said. "Dollars are just not available at the magnitude we need to do the job. It's extremely tough right now. We promise a free public education to all who show up at our door, but it doesn't mean we're prepared."

Schools Were 'Caught by Surprise'
IT is extremely difficult to forecast school enrollment. Just ask James Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers.
Indeed, Dr. James said that the baby boomers -- the people born from 1946 to 1964 who are now 38 to 56 years old -- "caught everybody by surprise."
From 1965 to 1976, birth rates declined, in large part because of birth control, Dr. Hughes explained. In addition, more women began entering the work force and postponing childbirth. In 1957, he explained, an average woman had 3.8 children in this country, but by 1976 that number dropped to 1.7 children.
Then came 1977, and the baby boom echo began. It is not that boomers had so many children, but rather there were a lot of people in their child-producing years at the same time. The schools are now crowded with those children -- along with a large immigrant population that was not anticipated.
In New Jersey, 1.5 million of the state's 8.4 million people are foreign born. From 1990 to 2000, about 400,000 immigrants moved to New Jersey, and first-generation immigrants tend to have a higher birth rate.
But as Dr. Hughes sees it, the school-age population should begin to level off through this decade. "We don't expect the dramatic highs and lows that were seen in our state or the country since 1946."
"The cycles are being muted," he added. "The boom was caused by 15 years of trauma -- Depression and World War II."
Yet while models and patterns suggest that growth is leveling, it is not always easy for districts to predict exact numbers because there is no way of knowing how many empty nesters may sell their homes in a given year, he said.
Rather, he said, there is a better fix on where "the growth zones" are, and that should lead to more accurate predictions.
"There's always some uncertainty," he said. "We can probably do a better job than forecasting the weather."

Most Districts O.K. Projects
DESPITE an economy that is struggling, voters around the state approved 85 percent of the 27 school construction proposals placed before them last week, amounting to $427 million in spending, according to the New Jersey School Boards Association.
"Usually the economy has an impact, so we were happy to see the level of support remained consistent," said Frank Belluscio, a spokesman for the association. "I think the public understands enrollment has increased and schools are operating at capacity."
Since 2000, voters have approved more than $2.72 billion in new construction, renovations and additions. In the past two years, 75 percent of the bond issues considered by the voters have passed.
Members of the School Boards Association have said that a major factor in the passage rate is the Facilities Act passed in 2000, which provided state money for construction.
Here are some of the proposals voted on last Tuesday:
*In Bogota, Bergen County, voters approved $13 million for additions and renovations to two elementary schools. Of that, $3.8 million will be financed by the state.
*In Spotswood, Middlesex County, voters approved more than $15 million for additions and renovations, of which the state will pay $5.4 million.
*In Millburn Township, Essex County, voters approved $18 million for additions and renovations at seven schools, but rejected spending more than $1.3 million to install a synthetic surface on the high school athletic field.
*In Washington Township, Burlington County, voters rejected a $5.6 million proposal to build a new elementary school that would have included community multipurpose space.
There is another round of school bond referendums scheduled for December.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Greenwich Township is changing from a rural enclave to a development-filled suburb. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Last September, a new elementary school, the Greenwich School, above, opened in Greenwich Township, Warren County. A week later, work was started on an addition. "It's a horrendous situation for the local taxpayer," said the district's superintendent, Dr. Kevin Brennan. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SUBURBS (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); SCHOOL BONDS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); BONDS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); PROPERTY TAX (56%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ENROLLMENT 

PERSON: NUSSBAUM, DEBRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



768 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2499 words

HEADLINE: Studios: Many Plans, a Few Completions 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
IN Hollywood on the Hudson, studio development projects have been as ephemeral as images on a screen.
 There seems to be agreement that New York could use more studios. "You've got to keep productions here after the location shooting is done," said Andrew Stern, a senior vice president of the city's Economic Development Corporation specializing in media and entertainment projects. "Large, purpose-built modern stages are one of the missing links in the chain." 
 But the business is so transient -- even a phenomenon like "The Sopranos" operates on a year-to-year basis -- that developers have been unable to offer lenders the assurance of long-term tenants. Until recently, much of the talk about building studios has been just that. 
"There have been so many projects that have come and gone," said Bice C. Wilson of Meridian Design Associates, architects of studio projects that have come and gone, that may be coming and that have just arrived. "Studios look like a cool thing to do. But they don't make a lot of money."
Given the skepticism about studio ballyhoo, David S. Steiner and Douglas C. Steiner of the Steiner Equities Group have kept a fairly low public profile even while driving hundreds of pilings at the Brooklyn Navy Yard for the first of two buildings in their 11-stage Steiner Studios project. They see no advantage in raising expectations yet. "Most people's acceptance of the realization of a project is when the walls are up," said Lou Madigan, president of Steiner Studios. That should occur by the end of the year, he said, with the first stages available in late 2003.
What construction there has been usually involves reclaiming existing spaces for specific shows, rather than a general tenancy. On Sept. 18, for instance, CNN inaugurated its new street-level studio for the program "American Morning with Paula Zahn" within a former bank branch at the base of the Time & Life Building, on the Avenue of the Americas, at 51st Street.
"CNN's always had a big presence here but I think it's great to have a new studio," Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg told Ms. Zahn at the start of the show, before he snipped a ribbon with oversized scissors.
There may be a few more ribbons to snip in coming years. CNN will build studios at AOL Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle for "NewsNight with Aaron Brown" and "Lou Dobbs Moneyline," designed by Kostow Greenwood Architects, who are also working on a renovation of NBC space at 30 Rockefeller Plaza.
The Hearst Corporation may build a studio in the new headquarters it is planning at Eighth Avenue and 57th Street, which could be used by any of its 29 television stations as a New York location.
And Meridian Design is working on revised plans for the $350 million Studio City New York on 11th Avenue, between 44th and 45th Streets. This 15-story, 700,000-square-foot structure would have five permanent studios. More than half the building could be used as production support space, including offices. Richard Benowitz is the managing general partner of a development group that includes Lehman Brothers, Hines, Pacifica Venture Partners and the Picket-Benowitz Group.
As if to underscore the vicissitudes of studio development, however, on the same day the mayor cut the ribbon for CNN, the Economic Development Corporation cut off talks with investors planning studios at the former Navy home port on the Stapleton waterfront in Staten Island. The investors, including the actor Danny Aiello, Marlowe R. Walker and Robert E. DiMilia, had already converted a vast refrigeration shed at the home port -- formerly used by Arnie's Bagelicious Bagels -- into a 110-by-120-foot sound stage where the independent movie "Max and Grace" is being filmed. Recognizing that studios alone would not be profitable, the investors envisioned a larger complex, designed by Bastien & Associates.
"Our proposal is for hotels, shops, marinas, office space and restaurants to make money and support the studios," Mr. Aiello said as he led a tour of the sound stage a day before the city effectively upended the plans. Subsidized this way, he said, Stapleton could compete with productions going to nonunionized states and Canada. "One of my dreams," Mr. Aiello said, "is to relocate production back where it belongs."
The partners had secured a six-month occupancy permit for two buildings on the final day of the Giuliani administration. They said they spent $2 million to build the first studio, hoping this would persuade city officials to lengthen their term and expand their control of the site. The occupancy permit was extended under the Bloomberg administration but will lapse on Oct. 31, effectively evicting Mr. Aiello's group.
The city said only that it had ended discussions "based on information received from the Department of Investigation with respect to a participant in the negotiations." Mr. Walker volunteered in an interview that one of his sons, Marlowe R. Walker 3rd, had been convicted of conspiracy to commit stock fraud, while insisting that his son was not a partner in or owner of the project.
Instead, he and Mr. Aiello asserted that city officials were seeking an excuse to remove them from involvement in the home port. They said last week that they still held out the hope of enticing a Paramount movie production to Stapleton Studios before the October deadline and that its arrival might persuade city officials to extend their term. But at best, Mr. Aiello conceded, "We're in maybe a limbo stage."
City officials had no further comment.
WHETHER their particular development formula would have made economic sense may never be tested. But it acknowledged the inability of studios themselves to attract conventional real estate financing.
The Steiners, based in Roseland, N.J., are getting around this problem by paying for their $150 million development up front and getting financing later, Mr. Madigan said. They are leasing the 15-acre site for 70 years from the Brooklyn Navy Yard Corporation at a rate that steps up over time to $5 a square foot. The city is committed to making $28 million in road, sewer and other infrastructure improvements, which would have to be made in any case to attract large-scale development to the 264-acre yard.
Foundation work began in August 2001, was halted Sept. 11 and resumed in March, having survived a change in mayoral administrations and opposition from the Hasidic community of Williamsburg, which worries about the potentially corrupting influence of a movie studio in its midst.
The first structure is to have 285,000 square feet of space and six studios; one of which, at 27,000 square feet, is to be the largest sound stage in the Northeast, Mr. Madigan said. (That distinction is currently held by Stage E, the 26,000-square foot "Big House" at Kaufman Astoria Studios in Astoria, Queens.) The second building, which is to be developed a year or two later with 200,000 square feet of space, is to have five studios, one with 42,000 square feet, the largest outside Hollywood.
Design duties have been divided between Richard Dattner & Partners for the exteriors and Dennis Janson of the Janson Design Group for the studios themselves.
Mr. Madigan's vision extends beyond the four walls of the studio buildings and the acreage he already leases. He pictures the old houses on the grounds as writers' bungalows, the landmark Naval Hospital and Surgeon's House as movie sets. "It begs to be a back lot," he said.
Eric Deutsch, president of the Navy Yard Corporation, said of the Steiner project that "it creates a whole new economic dynamic" for the yard. Another tenant, the Hispanic Information and Telecommunications Network, is planning to build two small studios in an existing building, he said.
"The Navy Yard provides a secure environment where you can begin to replicate the kind of studio lot that people in production are used to in Los Angeles," Mr. Deutsch said. "Once you're in Manhattan, you don't have the studio lot feel to it."
Not for want of trying. Drawings by Meridian Design for Studio City show a small back lot -- a New York street scene -- on the one-acre ninth-floor roof deck overlooking Clinton. Below would be studios ranging from 10,000 to 17,000 square feet.
All told, permanent studios would take up only one-tenth of the floor area in the building, which the architect, Mr. Wilson, likened to a vertical studio lot. More than half the building, 400,000 square feet, could be offices. "We'll be able to lease a good amount of space for a long term to a Triple A tenant," said the developer, Mr. Benowitz. "We don't need the studios leased long-term in order to get a shovel in the ground, and that's what makes us workable."
Four years ago, Mr. Benowitz was planning the Hudson River Studios on the roof of the three-block-long St. John's Center at West and Houston Streets -- until tenants there balked at the prospect of construction overhead. After that fell through, the Economic Development Corporation awarded a 92,000-square-foot site in Clinton to the Picket-Benowitz Group and its partners. For zoning purposes, the city-owned property is being subdivided into a lot that will include the studio project and Public School 51-Intermediate School 51 at 520 West 45th Street. As part of their deal with the city, the developers are to build a new gymnasium and install new windows and air-conditioning in the old school building.
What the city likes about the Studio City project is that it combines every phase of production under one roof, said Robert Balder, executive vice president for real estate development at the Economic Development Corporation. "It's a very compelling building type," he said.
The architects of Studio City, Meridian Design, seem to be adept at squeezing lots of things into limited space.
They were responsible for shoehorning two CNN studios into the Time & Life Building, working with Guy Pepper of CNN. The 2,100-square-foot studio for "American Morning" has glass walls that overlook the Avenue of the Americas, Radio City Music Hall and William Crovello's "Cubed Curve" sculpture on the Time & Life plaza. There is also a 1,100-square-foot studio for "Connie Chung Tonight."
Walter Isaacson, the chairman and chief executive of the CNN News Group, promoted the studio idea while he was editorial director of Time Inc. "It's not just symbolism," he said. "It allows the journalists at the Time & Life Building to be more involved with the shows we do on CNN."
It also gives Ms. Zahn's program the same window on New York that the competition already exploits. "You need a first-class, lively, exciting facility to say, 'We're a newsy alternative to broadcast morning shows,' " Mr. Isaacson said. "It's harder to do that out of the old windowless studio. You want the excitement that comes from being eye level with real people."
This was not as easily said as done. To begin with, there was a column in the middle of the space. To remove it, a 36-inch steel girder had to be added above the ceiling and a 52-inch girder below the floor. Another challenge was posed by vibrations from the Sixth Avenue subway. The answer was to isolate the concrete floor slab on resin-hardened fiberglass pads.
And the walls are far more complex than they look: panels of eight-layered laminated glass, two-and-a-half inches thick, each weighing 3,000 pounds and fabricated in Germany, set precisely in openings tilted 7 degrees to avoid reflection. Between these panels and the exterior curtain wall is a cavity almost five feet wide filled with "zipper" signs and television monitors.
BECAUSE this space acts as a giant heat trap, it has to be aggressively air-conditioned. In fact, anyone standing in the cavity practically has to shout to be heard over the whoosh of the rapidly moving air, which can easily pick up the corner of one's jacket. There are also heat registers under the curtain wall that can be used to prevent condensation, which would fog the view from the studio to the street.
There was no way to fit in a control room, so that remains in the existing CNN center at 5 Penn Plaza, meaning that the Time & Life studio is "almost a permanent remote," said Antonio Argibay of Meridian.
High-tech as it may be, the CNN project actually honors a tradition going back to the earliest days of filmmaking, in which studios were carved out of existing buildings.
For example, Chelsea Television Studios at 221 West 26th Street, home of "Ricki Lake," "Judge Hatchett" and "Change of Heart," is descended from a studio that Adolph Zukor created out of an armory in 1914. It has been owned since 1989 by All Mobile Video. A new facade is being installed by Garden State Brickface.
"There is a need for this type of operation," said Eric Duke, president of All Mobile Video, "but it's very hard to duplicate what we have with the economics of Manhattan real estate. You'll look at a studio 40 feet high, 100 by 100 feet, and say, 'How many apartments could we fit in this space?' " (The answer is about four.)
All Mobile has acquired the former Unitel Video studios at 433 West 53rd Street and 515 West 57th Street and briefly held Unitel's leasehold in a studio at Ninth Avenue and 55th Street owned by the Educational Broadcasting Corporation. That is being torn down to make way for the Joan Weill Center for Dance to be built by the Alvin Ailey Dance Foundation.
Silvercup Studios in Long Island City, Queens -- a reincarnated bakery and steel factory that is home to "The Sopranos," "Sex and the City" and "Queens Supreme" -- planned a new studio on the waterfront below the Queensboro Bridge, as part of a project in which it would have restored the landmark headquarters of the New York Architectural Terra Cotta Company at 42-10 Vernon Boulevard. Those plans were derailed last year when the New York Power Authority built two gas-powered turbine generators on an adjacent property.
Stuart Match Suna, the president of Silvercup, said his company was continuing to look for potential studio and storage sites, particularly in Long Island City.
Kaufman Astoria plans to build a new 15,000-square-foot stage as part of a $10 million, 30,000-square-foot building across 36th Street from its main entrance. The architects are the Janson Design Group.
The project was announced two years ago but held up because of sharp increases in construction costs, said Hal G. Rosenbluth, president of Kaufman Astoria. Nonetheless, he said he hoped to begin building the new studio late this year or early in 2003.
"At this point, we don't see the market for us to be substantially more than that," Mr. Rosenbluth said. "It's still a business that needs to be justified on an annual basis."
From the city's perspective, said Mr. Stern of the Economic Development Corporation, there is room for Kaufman Astoria, Silvercup, Steiner, Studio City and more, as New York aims to compete on more of an equal footing with Los Angeles.
Compete with Los Angeles? What about the weather? "So far," Mr. Stern allowed, "that's the only thing that's bedeviled us."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 13, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 29 about studio construction credited the design incompletely for the CNN studios in the Time & Life Building and in the AOL Time Warner Center. The Production Design Group was responsible for scenic design.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Paula Zahn, at right, and the director Renee Cullen at CNN's "American Morning" studio, recently installed in the Time & Life Building. (Harry Zernicke for The New York Times); Still a work in progress, this is the latest design for the 15-story Studio City New York on 11th Avenue, between 44th and 45th Streets. (Meridian Design Associates)(pg. 1); Marlowe R. Walker, left, and Danny Aiello survey the newly constructed sound stage at the former Navy home port on Staten Island. Their occupancy of the city-owned building is to end on Oct. 31. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times); Antonio Argibay, left, and Bice C. Wilson of Meridian Design Associates in between the glass walls of the new CNN "American Morning With Paula Zahn" studio and the windows of the Time & Life Building. (Harry Zernicke for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (67%); NETWORK TELEVISION (67%); CABLE TELEVISION (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); BANK BRANCHES (50%) TELEVISION; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TELEVISION; TIME & LIFE BUILDING (NYC); AOL TIME WARNER CENTER (NYC); TELEVISION; STUDIO CITY NEW YORK (PROPOSED); TELEVISION 

COMPANY: AOL INC (61%); HEARST CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CABLE NEWS NETWORK; HEARST CORP; MERIDIAN DESIGN ASSOCIATES; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC) 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (61%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (61%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) DUNLAP, DAVID W; BROWN, AARON; ZAHN, PAULA; DOBBS, LOU; AIELLO, DANNY; WALKER, MARLOWE R; DIMILIA, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: AMERICAN MORNING (TV PROGRAM); MONEYLINE (TV PROGRAM); NEWSNIGHT (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



769 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: BENEFITS 

BYLINE:  E-mail: society@nytimes.com Information: (212) 556-1141

 BODY:
 For the Craft Museum
TUESDAY -- The songwriter Cy Coleman will perform at a black-tie dinner at the Pierre to raise money for the American Craft Museum and its educational programs. The evening begins at 7 with cocktails. Dinner at 8 will be followed by dancing to the music of Gerard Carelli and his orchestra. Tickets, $500, from (212) 956-3535, ext. 112.

Helping Crime Victims
TUESDAY -- A cocktail reception at the American Museum of Natural History will raise money for the Crime Victims Treatment Center, which provides counseling, legal services and other aid. Linda Fairstein, the former head of the Manhattan District Attorney's sex crimes unit, will be among those honored. Drinks and hors d'oeuvres will be served beginning at 6:30. Tickets, $150, from (212) 523-4728.

How to Get to Carnegie Hall
WEDNESDAY -- The opening night of Carnegie Hall's 112th season will feature a concert by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Daniel Barenboim, performing Ravel's "Rapsodie Espagnol" and "Bolero" and other works. The black-tie evening begins at 5:30 with cocktails, with the concert at 7 and dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria at approximately 10. Transportation will be provided between the concert hall and the hotel. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 903-9679, or $36 and up for the concert alone, from (212) 247-7800.

Featuring Don King
THURSDAY -- A retrospective performance of black musical theater will be featured, and Don King, the promoter, will be among those honored, at a dinner at the Brooklyn Marriott, 333 Adams Street (Tillary Street), to raise money for scholarships, faculty and student research and other projects at Medgar Evers College. The black-tie evening begins at 6:30 with cocktails, with dinner at 7:45 and dancing at 10. Tickets, $150, from (212) 239-6631.

Housing in the Bronx
THURSDAY -- A cocktail reception and auction that will include trips to Grand Cayman and South Beach in Miami, as well as decorative accessories and furnishings, at the New York City Fire Museum, 278 Spring Street (Varick Street), will raise money for Women's Housing and Economic Development Corporation. The organization operates a housing complex and an economic development center in the Bronx. The evening begins at 6 with cocktails and hors d'oeuvres and a silent auction, with the live auction to begin at 7:45. Tickets, $250, or $100 for entry after 6:45, from (718) 839-1106.

Rita Hayworth Ball
THURSDAY -- The Allman Brothers will perform at a black-tie dinner dance at the Waldorf-Astoria to raise money for the Alzheimer's Association, which supports research, treatment and prevention. Cocktails at 6:30 with dinner and dancing at 7:30. The performance begins at 9, as does an auction of trips for two to Hong Kong and Paris, a tennis lesson with John McEnroe and various other items. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 843-1712.

Building in Brooklyn
THURSDAY -- Habitat for Humanity's building projects in Brooklyn, Queens, Manhattan and the Bronx will be supported by a dinner at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, 980 Park Avenue (84th Street). Cocktails at 6:30 will be followed by dinner at 7:30. Charles Eubanks, a jazz pianist, will perform. Tickets, $250, from (718) 246-5656, ext. 308.

For Israeli Projects
THURSDAY -- Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, is to speak at a black-tie dinner at the Pierre benefiting the Jewish National Fund, which is celebrating its centennial year. The organization, which builds dams, reservoirs and parks in Israel, is raising money for a reservoir project in northern Israel. Cocktails at 6. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 879-9305, ext. 505.

Airlift Dinner-Dance
SATURDAY -- AmeriCares's 15th annual dinner-dance, in a hangar at the Westchester County Airport, will conclude with guests boarding an airplane headed to the Dominican Republic with medicine and humanitarian supplies. The event aids the organization's disaster and long-term relief efforts around the world. Drinks and music by the Caribbean Cruisers at 6:30 will be followed by dinner at 8. The jet leaves at 10, with dancing for those who remain to the music of Night Market Too. Tickets, $300, from (203) 972-5555.

For Arts' Sake
OCT. 7 -- Pinchas Zukerman will be among those honored at the National Arts Awards, to be held at Cipriani 42nd Street, to raise money for Americans for the Arts. Drinks at 6:30 will be followed by dinner at 7:30. Black tie. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 223-2787, ext. 221.

Kidney Research
OCT. 7 -- Tim Shew and other Broadway actors will perform at the West Bank Cafe, 407 West 42nd Street (Ninth Avenue), to raise money for the Rogosin Institute, which supports research and treatment for kidney disease. Cocktails at 6 will be followed by dinner at 6:30 and the concert at 8:15. Tickets, $150, from (212) 746-1552.

Elie Wiesel Foundation
OCT. 7 -- A black-tie dinner at the Plaza will raise money for the Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity, which encourages world leaders to speak with one another on ethics and humanitarian goals, and operates educational projects for young people. Cocktails at 7 will be followed by dinner at 7:30. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 490-7777.

Art in Public Spaces
OCT. 8 -- A black-tie dinner in the Rose Center at the American Museum of Natural History will raise money for the Municipal Art Society and the organization's work to bring art to public spaces in New York. James Polshek, the architect, will be honored for his achievements. Cocktails at 7 and dinner at 8. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 685-1095.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); DANCE (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); HISTORY (73%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); THEATER (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); AUCTIONS (66%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



770 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Marybeth Wittekind, Amory Sharpe

 BODY:
Marybeth Wittekind and Amory H. Sharpe were married yesterday at the Unitarian Church of All Souls in New York, where the Rev. Richard Leonard performed the ceremony. 
 Mrs. Sharpe, 36, is a management consultant specializing in the media and entertainment industries at McKinsey & Company in New York. She graduated from the College of William and Mary and received a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago. Her parents, Margaret Wittekind and Dr. Raymond Wittekind, live in Morristown, N.J., where her mother, now retired, was the director of operations at the Family Service of Morris County, a social services organization. The bride's father is of counsel to Frommer Lawrence & Haug, a New York law firm. 
 Mr. Sharpe, 37, is the fund-raising director at the Lower East Side Tenement Museum in New York. He graduated from Vassar College. He is a son of Joan Sharpe Pandaleon and Timothy Sharpe, both of New York, and a stepson of George Pandaleon. His mother is the fund-raising director at the Little Sisters of the Assumption, a social services organization in New York. His father retired as the president of Sharpe Associates, an advertising and consulting concern in New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: FROMMER LAWRENCE & HAUG LLP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: WITTEKIND, MARYBETH (MARYBETH SHARPE); SHARPE, AMORY H. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



771 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Does the Law Of Gravity Apply to The Dollar?

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AFTER more than two decades during which the United States bought and consumed far more than it produced, has payback time finally arrived?
 A growing number of the bankers and finance officials from around the world who gathered in Washington this weekend for the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank believe that it is near. And if it isn't, they suggest, then by golly it should be. 
 "The current gaps between growth in real domestic demand and real output cannot be sustained indefinitely," the fund warned in its latest review of the world economy. The imbalances in the American economy, it said, are now so big that they pose a "significant risk" to global financial stability. 
The American economy has seemed to defy gravity for years, running steadily bigger trade deficits almost every year for the past two decades. Yet because growth was so strong through most of the 1990's, the economy has also acted as a vacuum cleaner, sucking in hundreds of billions of dollars in foreign investment every year.
The upshot has been an impossible balancing act -- a huge need for foreign cash, yet an indefatigable domestic currency -- that has caused hand-wringing from foreign central bankers who can't believe the United States keeps getting away with it.
The current account deficit -- the combination of trade in goods and services and the balance of income payments -- totaled about $242.5 billion in the first half of this year and is on track to hit a record of nearly $500 billion for the year.
According to the fund, the United States now absorbs about 6 percent of the world's savings to finance its deficit. Japan, plagued by a stagnant domestic economy, has been exporting about 1.5 percent of the world's savings, much of that to the United States.
Economists at the fund and elsewhere worry that investors might abruptly sour on the dollar because prices have simply become too high or because they no longer believe the United States can grow faster than the rest of the world.
"After the stock market bubble and the technology bubble, the last obvious remaining bubble is the dollar," said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics in Washington.
A steep plunge in the dollar would make foreign products more expensive in dollar terms, choking off exports to the United States and growth overseas. Exports to the United States have been among the world's most important sources of growth.
Mr. Bergsten believes that the risk of a collapse in the dollar remains unlikely, because the economic fundamentals of the United States remain sound.
But he argues that a correction is inevitable and that the Bush administration should act pre-emptively by intervening in financial markets to nudge down the dollar by an additional 10 or 20 percent.
"The dollar did come down pretty steadily and in a totally ordinary way in the first six months of this year, and there was no adverse effect on inflation," he noted. But since late July, the dollar has actually climbed slightly.
American manufacturers have been pleading for a weaker dollar for years. The high dollar is why manufacturing exports have been stagnant.
Indeed, economists for the Manufacturers Alliance, a trade association in Arlington, Va., argue that the American exports have fallen victim to exchange-rate manipulation by Japan and China. By keeping their currencies artificially low, it argues, those two countries have added $100 billion annually to the trade deficit.
BUT Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill has repeatedly insisted that exchange rates be set by market forces, and he has even argued that the current-account deficit is a mere accounting abstraction that means little in the real world of business.
If foreign money floods into the American market and keeps the dollar high, that reflects only the comparative appeal of the United States as an investment target. "What exactly are we supposed to do about it?" one senior official asked.
Fund officials acknowledge the problem, noting that the "ideal solution" to the imbalance would be for Europe and Japan to speed up their own desultory growth by making their markets more flexible and open.
All that is even theoretically possible for the United States Treasury to do is to intervene in currency markets to help push down the value of the dollar. But Mr. O'Neill will have none of it. And because the United States has no need for money from the fund, he doesn't need to.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks current account balance in billions from 2001-2002.(Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



772 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
As Baby Boomers Age, More Are Catching the 'Easy Rider' Bug

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

 BODY:
NEIL FALCONER first owned a motorcycle three decades ago, when he was in college, but he sold it after he landed his first job, in Chicago. Upon moving to Nevada a few years ago, however, his latent love of riding resurfaced -- with a vengeance.
 "You've got all these hills and trails and winding roads, and not a lot of people on them," said Mr. Falconer, chief of game engineering at International Gaming Technologies of Reno. 
 This year, Mr. Falconer, 54, paid around $9,000 for a Suzuki V-Strom, the third motorcycle he has bought in the last three years. He also owns a (bigger) Harley-Davidson cruising bike and a (smaller) Suzuki dirt bike, along with two Ford Mustangs. But the V-Strom is his favorite way to get to work, weather permitting. And Mr. Falconer, who dons a full-face mask helmet, gloves and a leather jacket for his commute, has an increasing amount of two-wheeled company on the roads these days. 
Motorcycle unit sales have tripled over the last 10 years, varooming in the last three years. And despite the sluggish economy, they rose 7.8 percent in the first six months this year, thanks in large part to baby boomers who find that they cannot experience the thrill of the road in a hulking sport utility vehicle or even a luxury car.
Hankering to join them? Before doing the "easy rider" thing, devotees and experts say, new bikers should grab some protective gear, study up and start thinking cc's.
In the last decade, motorcycles have attracted older, better-educated and wealthier customers, vastly broadening the market. Over all, more than 538,000 street bikes -- those that can be driven on roads and highways -- were sold in 2001, and three times that number of used bikes changed hands last year. The five biggest manufacturers, Honda, Harley-Davidson, Yamaha, Suzuki and Kawasaki, have 90 percent of the new motorcycle market, with other companies, including BMW, dividing the rest.
An increasing number of buyers in their 40's and 50's have raised the average age of a new-motorcycle buyer to 38, from 32 in 1990 and just 24 in 1980, according to the Motorcycle Industry Council in Irvine, Calif. At Harley-Davidson Inc., the legendary Milwaukee manufacturer known for its premium bikes, the average age is even higher, 45, and the average owner's income is $78,300, well above the $44,000 for all owners of street bikes.
About one-third of the Harley customers have never owned motorcycles before; the rest, like Mr. Falconer, are returning to the bike market or are adding to their stable. "Motorcycles are fashionable -- they're hip, they're in," said Gary Christopher, a spokesman for the American Honda Motor Company, which has the largest market share in the United States. He said women, a fast-growing market, now represent 1 in 10 buyers.
The buying is crossing more generational lines, too, he said. Many families now have fleets of motorcycles to go on vacations together.
Over all, more than 6.6 million Americans own motorcycles, according to the Motorcycle Industry Council.
John DiPietro, 40, of Culver City, Calif., said motorcycles give him a chance to feel the breeze and have a 360-degree view of his surroundings.
"You're much more aware of what's going on around you -- you don't have a CD changer, you don't have a cellphone, you don't have all the stupid distractions," said Mr. DiPietro, who owns a 2000 Yamaha V-Star 650 cruiser and is a road-test editor at Edmunds.com, a Web site that provides advice to consumers on car and truck purchases. "It is a feeling of nimbleness and freedom." (Sound systems are, however, available on a number of motorcycles.)
THE primary advice that enthusiasts and industry officials give to prospective buyers is to first enroll in a safety class. In many states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, passing such a course allows a potential cyclist to skip the road portion of the motorcycle license test given by motor vehicle departments. The courses generally cost $100 to $150 and include about 15 hours of instruction -- half in the classroom, half on bikes.
The Motorcycle Safety Foundation, a national, nonprofit organization sponsored by bike makers and distributors, offers its BasicRider course in all 50 states. Information can be found at www.msf-usa.org or by calling (800) 833-3995. Motorcycle dealers also can provide information on local classes by other groups.
Some companies, including Harley-Davidson, also offer their own instruction on how to handle their particular bikes.
Attention to safety has taken on new urgency because the number of fatal motorcycle accidents has risen 16.8 percent over the last two years. The increase caught industry and government officials off guard because the number of accidents fell in the 1990's even as sales were climbing, and all but four states had helmet laws and other regulations governing motorcycle safety. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 92 percent of the riders killed in accidents during those years had not taken a safety class. (Other studies show that about one-third of all motorcycle owners take the classes.)
Mr. Falconer said the classes also help to weed out people for whom owning a motorcycle is just a fantasy.
Once the commitment is made, the next quandary is how big a bike to buy. According to Mr. Falconer, potential riders should start small, because spinouts are a common occurrence for new riders.
"You have to be able to lift it," he said.
Big bikes, however, are the biggest sellers. Motorcycles are measured by engine power, in cubic centimeters. Riders used to begin on bikes with 250 cc engines, Mr. Christopher said, but in recent years, even fledgling buyers have been demanding more motorcycles with 750 cc and up.
Those big motorcycles generally fall into two categories: cruisers, many of which are designed to look like the classic motorcycles of the 1950's, with much chrome and gleaming paint; and touring bikes, the closest thing to cars on two wheels, complete with features like antilock brakes, tiny trunks and even cupholders.
Bought new, these big bikes start around $12,000. Honda, long known for its plush Gold Wing touring bike, is about to introduce its most expensive bike, the Valkyrie Rune, outfitted with a 1,800 cc engine and expected to retail for $25,000. Harley-Davidson, whose bikes can cost up to $28,000 when customized, is bringing out a new line of motorcycles to mark its 100th anniversary and already has a waiting list.
Less popular, but more affordable, are sport bikes, with their loud engines and zippy handling, and standard bikes, which straddle the middle in size and power. The least powerful, fewest-frills bikes in these categories start at $3,000 and range up to about $6,000 new. The price is about half for used versions.
Just as with cars, deals can be scarce or plentiful depending on the availability or popularity of a model.
Paying for a motorcycle can be as easy as writing a check or paying with a credit card, as Mr. Falconer did with his three bikes. Alternatively, motorcycle loans are available at banks and other financial institutions, from Web sites and through the manufacturers. Interest rates tend to be in the same range as for conventional car loans, now typically around 6.5 percent, but the terms are usually shorter, 12 to 60 months, versus 24 to 72 for auto loans.
Motorcycle showrooms and company Web sites abound with low-interest loan deals and rebates, so it pays to shop and bargain hard. Insurance policies can be found the same way. Many insurance companies offer current customers with good driving records a discount on their motorcycle policies -- even for first-time bikers. Insurers usually cut their rates for people who have completed safety courses.
Most riders acknowledge that motorcycles provide less protection than cars, though that fact does not deter devotees like Mr. DiPietro.
"I'm aware of the danger," he said. "People hear that I get on a bike and say, 'you really shouldn't.' But I love riding."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Neil Falconer of Reno, Nev., with the motorcycles he has bought in the last three years: a Suzuki dirt bike, left, a Harley-Davidson cruising bike and a Suzuki V-Strom. (Marilyn Newton for The New York Times) Chart: "Wheels Up"Motorcycle sales increased 28 percent last year, the fastest rate in a decade. Graph tracks the number of street bikes sold from 1990-2000. (Source: Motorcycle Industry Council)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOTORCYCLE DEALERS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (72%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); AFFLUENT MARKET (63%) MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR BIKES AND MOTORSCOOTERS; SALES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: HARLEY-DAVIDSON INC (86%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (84%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTORCYCLE INDUSTRY COUNCIL (59%)

TICKER: HOG (NYSE) (86%); HNDA (LSE) (84%); HMC (NYSE) (84%); 7267 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (73%) NEVADA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



773 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: URBAN TACTICS; 
Marty! Marty! Marty!

BYLINE:  By TARA BAHRAMPOUR 

 BODY:
ON a recent workday, Brooklynites lunching near Borough Hall Plaza might have wondered why a small brass band was playing oldies and why tables with old-fashioned seltzer bottles and chocolate syrup had been set up in the sun. They might also have wondered about the portly, middle-aged man in a T-shirt and a baseball cap who was standing on the steps of Borough Hall.
 "Look at this crazy crowd, huh?" he said with a grin, his body tense with anticipation. "It's as crazy as I am. As crazy as I am!" 
 Then Marty Markowitz, Brooklyn's borough president, bounded into the crowd, picked up a microphone and welcomed onlookers to Brooklyn's first-ever Egg Cream Extravaganza, a friendly competition to determine which local restaurant reigned supreme in making that famous New York beverage.
"Other boroughs claim the egg cream was born in the Lower East Side," Mr. Markowitz boomed in his thick Crown Heights accent. "But the egg cream has always been Brooklyn's drink." (Loud cheers from the crowd.) "The egg cream and Brooklyn have always been entwined." (Louder cheers.) 
A former state senator who took office as borough president in January, Mr. Markowitz has spent the last nine months making sure the city notices both him and the borough in which he has lived his whole life. He cultivates a first-name-basis relationship with his constituents: his newsletter carries headlines like "Marty's on the Move." Along with the egg cream contest, he introduced a boroughwide weight-loss drive, an over-40 singles beach bash, and signs along Brooklyn's borders carrying slogans like "Believe the Hype."
Mr. Markowitz, who honeymooned at the Brooklyn Marriott, believes it. But what does Brooklyn think of Mr. Markowitz's cheerleading, his misty-eyed recollections of the Dodgers, and the baring of his belly on the steps of Borough Hall? Are some put off by such displays of down-home goofiness, or does his devotion to his borough cut across class and age lines as cleanly as a knife through the Junior's cheesecake he consumes so unabashedly?
Sipping free samples of egg creams, most spectators at the contest subscribed to the latter school of thought. "Everyone loves Marty because he gets out there and he does things," said Vince DiMiceli of Carroll Gardens. "He gets publicity for the borough, which the borough desperately needs."
But as people shouted answers to Mr. Markowitz's quiz about Barbra Streisand and the Dodgers, a man in a gray suit walked purposefully on. "This is the guy who wants to take down the picture of George Washington, our founding father," he remarked drily to a companion. The reference was to Mr. Markowitz's removal of portraits of "old white men" when he took office, a public relations disaster that prompted criticism from the mayor. 
Some wonder if a $135,000-a-year public servant with a $4.7 million operating budget should be playing matchmaker and touting local fountain drinks. Although events like the egg cream contest are financed mostly by corporations, Mr. Markowitz seemed aware of this concern. "In between all this," he told the crowd, "we do some serious work."
Charter revisions 13 years ago cut much of the meat off the job of borough president. David Nasaw, a history professor at CUNY Graduate Center, dismisses them as "irrelevant." 
"We pay them a lot of money, it's a total scandal, and nobody talks about it," Mr. Nasaw said. Of Mr. Markowitz's activities, he added: "He's got nothing to do, no way to let people know that he's there. So he's become a cheerleader who has to come up with ways to root for the home team." 
Claire Shulman, who was Queens borough president from 1986 to 2001, says borough presidents can still accomplish a lot. "Don't judge the office by one person," she said. "That's not fair."
But Kenneth T. Jackson, the historian who heads the New-York Historical Society, sees deeper meaning in Mr. Markowitz's antics, not to mention a spiritual link to Fiorello La Guardia, the mayor who made headlines by reading the funny papers on the radio during the Depression. "He was a showman, and certainly Marty Markowitz is a showman," he said. Beyond that, Mr. Jackson added, "He's bringing energy and innovation and pride to Brooklyn." 
Along with the rest of the city, Mr. Jackson pointed out, the borough is experiencing a renaissance.
"BROOKLYN looks better, it feels better, it's safer, and it has a sense that I think is new, that Brooklyn is the future," he said. "The borough president is both capitalizing on that and helping it to happen."
Mr. Markowitz, for his part, says that most of what he does centers on hard issues around which he campaigned, like unemployment, health care and housing. But, he added, "Then there's the other part of the job. The part that makes people feel better about where they live, the part that puts an extra step in their walk. If I can put a smile on the faces of Brooklynites, making them proud that they're Brooklyn and they're special, I'm doing my job."
A spokesman for Mr. Markowitz noted that many of his events were intended to raise Brooklyn's profile and promote tourism. And there's no question that the obvious enjoyment Mr. Markowitz derives from his position can be infectious. 
As the finalists for the best egg cream lined up on the stage. Mr. Markowitz sampled each one, smacking his lips and ignoring wisecracks about his diet. As the band struck up "Take Me Out to the Ball Game," his face creased into smiles.
"That's it!" the diehard baseball fan cried, beating the air with his fists. "I love it! Love it!"

WILD AND CRAZY
All Things Kings

Marty Markowitz has waged several campaigns to make Brooklynites feel good about themselves. Here are a few.

Lighten Up Brooklyn -- An eight-week campaign to encourage Brooklynites to lose weight. Mr. Markowitz lost 11 of his 194 pounds; the borough lost 82,655.

Life Begins at 40 -- A singles party, with straw hats and leis, for over-40 Brooklynites on the Kingsborough Community College beach where Mr. Markowitz met his wife, Jamie, in 1999.

Respect: Its A Brooklyn Attitude -- A campaign to get Brooklynites to be more courteousto hold doors open, cede the right of way in traffic and stop littering.

Butt Out, Brooklyn -- A campaign to prevent Brooklyn teenagers from smoking.

GRAPHIC: Photos: WILD AND CRAZY -- Marty Markowitz likes to "put a smile on the faces of Brooklynites." Above, weighing in to start the "Lighten Up Brooklyn" campaign, showing off his slimmer new look, left, at the Mermaid Parade, right, and, far left, with the Cyclones mascot. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); (Justin Lane for The New York Times); (Above left, Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times; above, Denny Lee for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESTAURANTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%) 

PERSON: MARKOWITZ, MARTY (BORO PRES); BAHRAMPOUR, TARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



774 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH -- Leland H. Faust; 
CSI Equity Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
DIVIDENDS have become increasingly important to Leland H. Faust, who runs the $96 million CSI Equity fund.
 "We view a company's ability to pay dividends as a floor for stock price decreases," Mr. Faust said from his office in San Francisco. "If the history of the company shows that management increases dividends or doesn't like to cut dividends, that can make it easier for the stock price to go up." 
 His portfolio companies yield 1.9 percent, on average, versus 0.47 percent for its category of large-capitalization blend funds, which own a mix of growth and value stocks.
Mr. Faust, 56, is the chairman of CSI Capital Management, the fund's adviser, and is a financial adviser to sports figures including Paul O'Neill, the former Yankees outfielder. CSI Equity, which started in October 1997, began offering two classes of retail shares in January 2002. Shares are available through financial advisers with a 5.75 percent front-end sales load, or sales charge, but no-load shares may be bought through Charles Schwab and other mutual fund marketplaces.
The fund's no-load shares lost 1.4 percent, a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, including the effect of dividends. That places the fund in the top 4 percent of large blend funds, which lost an average of 10.2 percent, annualized. The Standard & Poor's 500 stock index fell 11.4 percent, annualized, according to Morningstar Inc.
The fund was down 4.5 percent in the last 12 months, versus losses of 13.1 percent for its group and 13.8 percent for the index. The market capitalization of the portfolio folio companies averages $35 billion.
Some 70 percent of the fund is invested in North America, followed by France, 10 percent, and Britain, 5 percent.
To choose stocks, he looks for what he calls recognized industry leaders and focuses on sales and earnings growth.
In his analysis of financial statements, he reviews a company's debt -- the less, the better. In the sluggish economy, he said, he is concentrating on defensive stocks with stable earnings. For example, the fund has a 24.7 percent stake in consumer staples, versus 10 percent for the S.& P. 500.
MR. FAUST tends to hold stocks for the long term. The fund's turnover is 17 percent, compared with 91 percent for its group.
In July, he bought shares of the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company of Chicago, the chewing-gum giant. The company has been a slow but steady grower in the last five years, he said, with dividend and earnings growth averaging 7 percent and revenue growing 5 percent, on average. Shares yield about 1.6 percent.
The balance sheet has no long-term debt, he said, adding, "Wrigley is an industry leader, and we don't see a whole lot of new competition coming in."
Although Wrigley was turned down in its recent bid for Hershey Foods, Mr. Faust said, the fund bought Wrigley shares "because of its existing business, not because it's in an acquiring mode." As for further acquisition attempts, he said, "It depends on the fit."
He has paid $56 a share, on average, for his Wrigley position; the stock now trades at $49.67. Its yield is 1.62 percent. 
In February, Mr. Faust began buying shares of the FPL Group, the electric-utility holding company based in Juno Beach, Fla. FPL's dividend growth rate has averaged 4 percent a year over the last five years, he said, and its five-year net income and revenue have grown an average of 6 percent. "In a troubled market, we think utilities are more stable," he said.
He paid $51 a share, on average, for the position. FPL now trades at $52.79; it yields 4.36 percent.
Mr. Faust also likes Toto Ltd., a Japanese maker of plumbing fixtures. It pays a 2 percent dividend, he said, and has substantial cash flow. Toto is a market leader and a major exporter, with significant sales to the United States, he said.
He bought American depository receipts of the company in May, paying $44, on average; they now trade at $40.00.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leland H. Faust says dividends can cushion damage in a market decline. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) Chart: "CSI Equity"Category: Large blendNet assets: $96 millionInception: October 1997Manager: Leland H. Faust since inceptionMinimum purchase* (investor shares): $1,000 ($1,000 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 17% 3-year annualized returnthrough Thursday: 1.4%Category average: 10.2% Sector breakdown Other: 53%Drugs/medical: 11%Retail: 11%Household: 10%Oil: 8%Computer software/services: 7% FeesFront-end load: None+Deferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.45% *Minimums may vary when bought through mutual fund supermarkets. +Available through mutual fund supermarkets. Available through brokers with a 5.75 percent load. (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (76%); ATHLETES (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (59%); SPORTS (54%); SPORTS & RECREATION (54%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: WILLIAM WRIGLEY JR CO (81%); MORNINGSTAR INC (66%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (56%) CSI CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (66%); SCHW (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (81%); SIC2067 CHEWING GUM (81%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; FAUST, LELAND H 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



775 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
For Sellers Of Food, Fewer Chairs At the Table

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
THE big companies that sell much of the food that Americans eat have huge appetites. In the last couple of years, they have been gobbling up one another.
 The consolidation trend was at least temporarily halted this month, when Hershey Foods rebuffed an $89-a-share offer from the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company. 
 Jaine I. Mehring, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, talked last week about the meat-and-potatoes section of the stock market. Following are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. What is the logic behind consolidation in the food industry?

A. Normalized earnings-per-share growth is about 7 or 8 percent, but most companies would still tell you they are shooting for 8 percent to 10 percent. When I started covering the group five years ago, every chief executive told me it was 13 percent to 15 percent. Some companies have merged for cost savings to put more money into things like promotion. Some have merged because they wanted access to categories of food they didn't manufacture themselves. It also has to do with leveling the playing field with their retailers, who for a number of years were merging aggressively.

Q. Is the food business becoming an oligopoly?

A. Not by any means. The top 10 beverage manufacturers have more than 80 percent of that market, as do the top 10 household products companies. The top 10 supermarket chains have more than 50 percent of that market. But the 10 biggest food companies have a market share of about 20 percent. It is still an incredibly fragmented industry.

Q. Are there formidable barriers to entry in the food business?

A. They are high to achieve national distribution and get that product slotted on a store shelf. And there are some food businesses, like chocolate, that are more difficult to get into. But you see new ideas spring up in the form of small private regional companies all the time.
As far as the fundamentals are concerned, since the late 1990's they have deteriorated. 
Most importantly, pricing flexibility has been unwound. In the late 1990's, companies were pricing some products at two to three times the rate of inflation, and were also pulling back on reinvestment. You never know when that strategy is going to fail. 
Also, as retailers consolidated and as Wal-Mart emerged as the largest food retailer, the customer has been pushing back in terms of pricing. That takes away a big chunk of your earnings. And costs have gone up. Finally, over the last six to nine months, consumption volume has decelerated. That is strange, and is perplexing people. Most retailers are reporting that traffic in stores is depressed. When traffic is light, people buy staples, but not the impulse stuff.

Q. What is your take on the situation with Hershey Foods?

A. Well, the $89-a-share offer from Wrigley is still hanging out there. The situation is like watching someone rub two sticks together, and you are not sure if there will be a spark. It is either up to Wrigley to do something by pushing the issue, or to Hershey's board, who might pressure the Hershey Trust by claiming this was a very good offer that would benefit all classes of shareholders equally. Then you have the shareholders themselves. Where are they? Are they angry? The ultimate outcome will depend on whether there is activism. I think the chances are 50-50 that one or a combination of those constituencies will push for a deal. I am floored by how passive everyone seems.

Q. Do you consider any of the other big food companies takeover candidates?

A. I recently upgraded Campbell Soup and made the call that the valuation has finally gotten low enough to potentially attract the interest of someone trying to unlock value. The business has some discrete operations within it that have embedded value, like Pepperidge Farm and Godiva chocolates.

Q. Do you have other favorite stocks?

A. Kellogg is still very reasonably priced. It offers the best combination of earnings visibility, solid execution and valuation. Kraft Foods has been the best performer in the group this year, and I am still recommending it. And Hormel Foods, which is a different animal, is also recommended.

Q. Do you expect food stocks to suffer when the overall market improves?

A. The group has outperformed the market by 80 percent since March of 2000. Right now, the group is trading at 17.8 times forward four-quarters earnings, which is just about a market multiple.
When the technology bubble was peaking, the group got as low as a 55 percent discount to the market. In the 30 years before that, the biggest discount was 20 percent. 
When the stock market decides that happy days are here again, the food group will again underperform. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (71%); CARTELS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); INFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); BONDS (60%); EXECUTIVES (54%); BEVERAGE MFG (51%) FOOD; STOCKS AND BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: WILLIAM WRIGLEY JR CO (84%); HERSHEY CO (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SALOMON SMITH BARNEY 

TICKER: HSY (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (84%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2067 CHEWING GUM (84%); NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; MEHRING, JAINE I 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



776 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Frontier, Seeing a Chance in Denver, Elbows In

BYLINE:  By ALEX MARKELS 

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
DURING a coffee break from contract talks last June at the headquarters of Frontier Airlines here, a Teamsters negotiator, Douglas G. Whetstine, buttonholed the airline's chief executive, Jeffrey S. Potter, about its policy of charging passengers who switch their return flights. "You shouldn't make people pay both a change fee and the difference in the fare," Mr. Whetstine said. "It's just not right."
 Mr. Potter, 42, an affable man who dresses casually at work and prides himself on his approachability, recalled saying, "Maybe you're right." 
 A month later, Frontier eliminated the charge for the fare difference. "It was the right thing to do," Mr. Potter said recently, recounting the decision. "There's no reason to be alienating folks right now." 
As the nation's biggest airlines are reeling from the worst losses in a decade, Mr. Potter's approach is unusual -- and appears to be working. Frontier is expanding from its home at Denver International Airport. And, with a combination of eased ticket restrictions and discount fares, it has become a thorn in the side of United Airlines, the biggest carrier in Denver, which has been trying to avoid bankruptcy. 
"Frontier has a huge opportunity," said Michael J. Boyd, president of the Boyd Group, an aviation consulting firm in Evergreen, Colo. "They're in a position to poach a lot of traffic from United right now."
Frontier has also managed to keep its employees happy in an industry where layoffs and uncertainty are rampant. In July, negotiations with Mr. Whetstine, who represents Frontier's mechanics, yielded what he called one of the best contracts in the industry. And Frontier's relations with its flight attendants are so good that they recently voted against unionizing. 
Passenger unhappiness at other airlines has helped fuel Frontier's good-guy image. Recent random interviews with passengers at the Denver airport illustrated the depth of anger over the new penalties that many big airlines have imposed.
"They're outrageous," said James I. Michael, president of Alliance Power Inc., an energy company in Denver. When a United representative told Mr. Michael that he would have to pay $500 to switch his return flight from Los Angeles to Denver to a later time, Mr. Michael said, he was so steamed that he switched his company's travel business to Frontier. "They don't gouge us when we're stuck at the last minute," he said.
But Frontier's strategy of undercutting United on fares has come at a cost. Aggressive price cuts by United last spring -- and corresponding reductions by Frontier -- contributed to a loss for Frontier in the quarter ended June 30. It was the airline's first quarterly loss in four years.
Although Frontier weathered the downturn in air traffic better than larger carriers after Sept. 11 (it was the only airline to return federal grant money received for related losses), it applied for a $59.5 million federal loan guarantee in June, citing concern that loan guarantees to bigger carriers could give them an unfair advantage in lowering ticket prices. Frontier is awaiting approval of its application and is negotiating its first private line of credit.
 ALTHOUGH Frontier is a small fraction of United's total size -- revenue for the quarter ended June 30 was $111 million, about 3 percent of the $3.79 billion at United -- Frontier is a growing force at Denver International. Its market share there has climbed to more than 11 percent from 3.5 percent five years ago, giving it the largest presence there behind United, which has 62.4 percent.
Frontier has added nine destinations this year and now operates about 180 daily flights, about one-tenth of what United flies.
A partly nonunion work force and strict budgeting have kept Frontier's cost structure about 25 percent below United's. And a transition to a new fleet of more economical aircraft has helped Frontier reduce costs by more than 13 percent versus the previous year. Its new Airbus A319 jets, which Frontier is phasing in through 2005, have greater fuel efficiency and lower maintenance costs than the old Boeing 737's they replace.
Mr. Potter, a one-time aircraft cleaner and ticket agent who never completed college, has tried to be accessible to his employees since ascending to the chief executive's job last April. Everyone, including union representatives and rank-and-file workers, gets a hearing. Pausing during an interview this month, he fielded a telephone call from a Frontier mechanic suggesting a novel way to dispose of an old Boeing aircraft: park it on the office lawn as a museum piece. "Great idea," Mr. Potter told the mechanic. "But we lease that aircraft. So they're going to want it back when we're done with it."
He later held up a small cardboard box that holds flight meals. "There's some potential savings with these boxes," he said. "But I'm concerned about how the flight attendants feel about using them instead of doing regular meal service. So we're asking them before we make any changes."
The approach is directly from the playbook of Mr. Potter's predecessor and mentor, Samuel D. Addoms, 63, a corporate turnaround expert who helped found Frontier in 1994, reincarnating the name of a Denver-based airline that went bankrupt eight years earlier. Although legendary for his frugality (he shunned cellphones and insisted that workers receive his permission before using the color printer outside his office), Mr. Addoms, who remains Frontier's chairman, has diligently consulted with employees.
Perplexed by the standard industry practice of paying flight crews by the hour, he worked with employees to create a salary-based system that allows flight crews to team up for a month at a time, rather than switching from flight to flight. Managers say the change has made labor costs more predictable and improved employee morale. "It helped build a family type of relationship," recalled John W. Todoverto, president of Frontier's pilots union. "Management's door has always been open for us to sit down and chew the fat, which makes everyone more willing to compromise."
Mr. Addoms was motivated to do exactly that after Frontier's initial strategy of building a regional feeder to larger carriers failed in 1995, when Continental Airlines eliminated its Denver hub. That left United dominant in Denver and unwilling to team with Frontier. So Mr. Addoms converted his fledgling operation into a discount airline, adding routes to major cities like Los Angeles and New York while pricing Frontier's flights below United's. An unrestricted Denver-to-New York round-trip ticket on Frontier, for example, costs $736, versus $1,506 on United.
Frontier's Denver base, a natural crossroads, has made it relatively easy to build a hub-and-spoke system like that used by larger carriers. While it is not the most efficient system, Frontier has made it work by pursuing low costs and appealing to price-conscious business travelers with lower short-notice fares and eased travel restrictions, like forgoing Saturday-night stay requirements on most fares.
Mr. Potter, who as the company's vice president for marketing directed its pricing, has followed closely in Mr. Addoms's footsteps. "Our strategy remains unchanged: price below United and continually focus on a cost structure that's less than theirs," Mr. Potter said.
Although the discounts have undermined profits, industry analysts say Frontier's strategy remains sound. 'They're doing an excellent job of flying just below United's pain threshold," said Andrew Watterson, an aviation specialist at Mercer Management Consulting. "It costs more for United to fight them than to leave them alone, which has allowed Frontier to get great margins and flourish in a market that United dominates."
Mr. Watterson said United has little incentive, for example, to match Frontier's fares from Denver to Los Angeles, because Frontier runs only a few daily flights on that route, compared with a dozen by United.
 IF United goes into bankruptcy, however, Frontier's success against it could be imperiled. "Once United declares bankruptcy, it can get its labor costs under control," said Michael E. Levine, a Yale University professor and a former executive at Northwest Airlines. "The day it does that, Frontier's zone of protection goes away."
But for the time being, United has bigger problems to worry about than Frontier. As it tries to cut $2.5 billion in costs and increase revenue, United has recently followed an erratic pricing strategy that has pushed down leisure fares but kept business fares up to twice as high as Frontier's. "We've kept an eye on Frontier, but our focus is on the business customer and they're more focused on leisure customers," said Sean Donohue, United's vice president for sales in the Western region, who noted Frontier's recent plans to add flights to three Mexican resorts.
"When it comes to pricing, we're very, very competitive," he said. "And at the end of the day, we offer things that they don't, like a first-class cabin."
Frontier executives say they are happy to concede such luxury services to United. "They're boarding three classes of service and three different levels of frequent-flier status, and half of those people are up in their club getting loaded on United's liquor," Mr. Addoms said. "If United wants to do those complex things, that's fine with us. They're good at it. They have nice clubs."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey S. Potter, chief executive of Frontier Airlines, above, with one of its planes at its Denver hub. Passengers, left, lined up to board a Frontier flight to Chicago. The airline offers low-cost, no-frills service competing with United Airlines, the troubled full-service giant. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) Chart: "Thorn in United's Side"Frontier Airlines, based in Denver, has been able to compete with its main rival, United Airlines, by charging lower fares and keeping its cost structure about 25 percent lower. Graph tracks share of total passengers flown at Denver International Airport, July 2002 UNITED*: 62.4%FRONTIER*: 11.1%ALL OTHERS: 12.8%AMERICAN: 5.6%DELTA: 4.8%NORTHWEST: 3.4% *Includes affiliates Cost to fly one passenger one mile, 2001Frontier: 9.11Delta: 10.03Northwest: 10.54American: 11.88United: 12.03 (Sources: Denver International Airport; Eclat Consulting)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (64%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FRONTIER AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: MARKELS, ALEX; POTTER, JEFFREY S 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) DENVER (COLO)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



777 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2468 words

HEADLINE: Intel's Huge Bet Turns Iffy 

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF and STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
GOOGLE -- the Internet's leading search engine, powered by an arsenal of computers with 15,000 microprocessors -- should be a premier customer for Intel's new Itanium 2 super-chip.
 Itanium, a joint project of Intel and Hewlett-Packard, Silicon Valley's two largest companies, has been in the laboratory for more than a decade. Itanium is designed to excel at a sweeping array of advanced computing tasks, from solving grand scientific challenges to rendering complex graphics to slicing through vast databases. With more than 200 million transistors on each chip, it is designed to process data in big bites -- 64 bits, in chipspeak -- at blazing speeds. 
 But Google isn't buying. And that is an ominous sign for what is one of the longest-running and most expensive computing projects in history -- exceeded only by I.B.M.'s bet-the-company gamble on its 360 mainframes, which eventually succeeded. 
For Intel, Itanium's failure would be a painful black eye, a setback in its heavily financed assault on the corporate computing world beyond the personal computer. For its partner, Hewlett-Packard, the chip venture, if anything, is even more important. Exploiting the Itanium opportunity was crucial to the thinking behind Hewlett-Packard's $19 billion merger this year with Compaq Computer. If Itanium fails, it will be a severe blow.
And if Itanium flops, Silicon Valley's psyche may well be shaken, too. Projects like Itanium are the valley's equivalent of going to the moon. Big budgets, big egos and a near-religious commitment to the "right way" to design a computer are involved. With Silicon Valley mired in its worst recession, some technologists there say that Itanium may be the industry's last such huge bet on computer design.
Intel still says its commitment to Itanium is unwavering. Its smaller rival, Advanced Micro Devices, has an alternative to Itanium that computer makers are seriously considering. And Intel has a fallback project, called Yamhill, in case Itanium founders. But mainly, Intel is redoubling its bet on Itanium.
It has taken an entire decade, an estimated $5 billion and teams of hundreds of engineers from the two companies to bring the first Itanium chip to market. As the struggles and costs mount for the companies, skeptical technologists say Itanium now has the hallmarks of a bloated project in deep trouble. It is already four years behind schedule, emerging just as companies are in no mood to spend money on technology.
"Every big computing disaster has come from taking too many ideas and putting them in one place, and the Itanium is exactly that," said Gordon Bell, a veteran computer designer and a Microsoft researcher.
INCREASINGLY, Intel is facing the risk that it has chosen the wrong path to high-performance computing. It may have looked backward as it developed the microchip equivalent of the behemoth computers of the past.
Eric Schmidt, the computer scientist who is chief executive of Google, told a gathering of chip designers at Stanford last month that the computer world might now be headed in a new direction. In his vision of the future, small and inexpensive processors will act as Lego-style building blocks for a new class of vast data centers, which will increasingly displace the old-style mainframe and server computing of the 1980's and 90's.
It turns out, Dr. Schmidt told the audience, that what matters most to the computer designers at Google is not speed but power -- low power, because data centers can consume as much electricity as a city.
If power efficiency does indeed trump processing speed, everything that Intel and Hewlett-Packard have done to pack raw power into the 221 million transistors of the new Itanium 2 could now be a handicap. The chip, which is as large as a silver dollar and whose 130 watts of power dissipation are enough to fry the proverbial egg, is not even a contender in the Google universe. "We're incredibly, incredibly power sensitive, and we've been talking to Intel about that," Dr. Schmidt said.
So far, Intel and Hewlett-Packard have been hard-pressed to prove they are on the right track. The Itanium was announced in 1994 as a joint effort to design a processor for the world of large computing systems, like servers, mainframes and supercomputers.
The project, however, has been beset by repeated delays. Originally planned to arrive in late 1997, the chip did not arrive commercially until last year.
Worse, the first version of Itanium, code-named Merced, proved to be an embarrassing dud -- its performance trailing even Intel's own 32-bit Pentium chips, let alone the rival chips it is intended to beat, like I.B.M.'s Power series or Sun Microsystems' Ultrasparc 64-bit processors.
Itanium is Intel's effort to apply the economics of the personal computer business, with its lower costs of mass production and swift technological improvement, to the lucrative market for computer data centers of corporations and government. I.B.M. and Sun Microsystems, with their big server computers and 64-bit chips, are the leaders in the data center market -- and the target of Intel and its partners from the personal computer industry, like Hewlett-Packard, Dell Computer and Microsoft.
The more powerful Itanium 2 was introduced in July, but market researchers now project that Itanium will garner less than 10 percent of the market for server computing as far ahead as 2007. Intel executives have not disputed those forecasts.
Yet Michael J. Fister, the veteran Intel manager who was called in to rescue the Itanium project three years ago, says the project has finally turned around. A little patience may be needed, he says, but what lies ahead for Itanium is opportunity, not insurmountable problems.
Raised in Cincinnati and educated as an electrical engineer at the University of Cincinnati, Mr. Fister has worked at Intel for 15 years and was one of the managers behind Intel's successful 32-bit Pentium server line in the 1990's. He was chosen two years ago by Intel's chief, Craig R. Barrett, and its president, Paul S. Otellini, to reset the Itanium project.
"Mike was the obvious choice," Mr. Otellini said. "He is one of our most seasoned design managers and an expert on high-end computer architecture." 
Intel has long been known as a magnet for sharp, hard-driving engineers, but Mr. Fister was a standout when he arrived in the 1980's, according to several people who worked at the company then.
"I would always rely on him when I had a problem," said Jim Lally, a former Intel executive and now a partner at the venture capital firm Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield & Byers. "He would get it done and get it done right."
Mr. Fister says Itanium is now on track. When Itanium 2 becomes available widely next year, he said, it will have better performance than any of the competing 64-bit chips. That, he added, will make up for all of Itanium's earlier failings.
This month, at the Intel Developer Forum in San Jose, Calif., Mr. Fister detailed a road map for two new generations of Itaniums in 2003 and 2004. He spoke about a lower-power version of Itanium that might come closer to meeting Google's computing challenge. He even bragged about "10 tons" of Itanium-based computers the company was demonstrating at the conference.
He acknowledged that Intel had spent too much time worrying whether its new 64-bit design would cannibalize its thriving Pentium processor market. Now that debate is over, he said. "We're seeding an architecture that is going to last for two decades," he added, even as he said critics were correct to be skeptical in the past. 
"We've been kind of plodding along and we missed a couple of schedule points," Mr. Fister said. But those days are behind Itanium, he said, adding, "The information technology industry is buying anything that demonstrates price performance."
IN private conversations with big Intel customers, Mr. Otellini has said the company is more committed to Itanium than ever and willing to push to make it succeed -- at whatever cost.
A senior executive at a large computer maker said that when he asked about Intel's Itanium strategy, Mr. Otellini replied, "Don't even think about us pulling back from Itanium."
The senior executive said his company still had concerns about Itanium -- whether its complex design would work in the broad and diverse market of corporate computing. 
Mr. Fister argues that the debate about the complexity of writing software for the new chip design -- a crucial issue if Itanium is to succeed -- will soon be put to rest, as important software applications arrive for Itanium from companies like Microsoft, Oracle and SAP.
Even if Itanium overcomes the software bottleneck, Mr. Fister will face another challenge soon: positioning Itanium against a new 64-bit Opteron from Advanced Micro Devices, Intel's closest rival in the personal computing world.
Intel and Hewlett-Packard chose to start from scratch with a new design for Itanium, requiring programmers to rewrite applications. AMD has taken a more compatible approach.
Opteron, which will begin shipping next year, is based on the original Intel-designed X86 instruction set. That means the chip will run all existing software intended for other Intel chips, as well as compatible processors, with only minor alterations.
At a technical conference in Silicon Valley in the summer, computer designers were impressed when AMD said the new 64-bit extensions to the existing 32-bit chip required only 2 to 3 percent more silicon. That, they said, is a small price to pay for a 64-bit chip that can also run software applications written for existing 32-bit chips. "We believe customers want an easy migration path to 64 bits," said Marty Seyer, a vice president at AMD. 
Until recently, AMD has been largely ignored by Intel because it has not been a significant factor in the corporate computer server market. But if AMD finds success with a high-visibility computer maker like Dell, that could change fast. In fact, Dell has said that it is looking closely at using Opteron.
"This is the first time AMD has had a value proposition that is more than just price," said Randall D. Groves, vice president for computer servers at Dell. "That's something we have to take seriously." Dell, he added, will probably make a decision before year-end on whether to buy AMD chips.
The AMD challenge has led Intel to quietly begin a project, called Yamhill, in Oregon. There, a team of Intel engineers is trying to build a 64-bit extended version of its own X86 Pentium chips, just like AMD's Opteron.
AMD's reputation in chip design is better than its reputation for manufacturing and business execution. But regardless of Opteron's fate, the Yamhill project itself could present thorny problems for Intel. If Yamhill shows an easier path from 32- to 64-bit computing than the costly rewriting of software applications, as the shift to Itanium requires, corporate customers will be reluctant to move to Itanium. 
Mr. Fister was coy about Yamhill in an interview at Intel headquarters in Santa Clara, Calif. Intel has never publicly acknowledged Yamhill's existence. But he suggested that AMD might encounter difficulties with Opteron. "It may not be as simple as people think it is to take advantage of a 64-bit processor," he said.
Then, all but acknowledging Yamhill, Mr. Fister dropped a few intriguing hints that Intel's design efforts for it were well under way. "We're pretty smart about the evolution to 64-bit, and we're street-smart about it," he said.
Mr. Fister also suggested that Intel might have already developed extensions to its 32-bit products that "we haven't told anyone about." But, he added, "it's hard for us to talk about unannounced entries."
Not far away, in Palo Alto, Hewlett-Packard may have even more riding on Itanium than does Intel. The chip is a big part of the company's goal to gain an edge over I.B.M., Sun Microsystems and Dell in corporate computing.
As a co-developer of the Itanium technology, Hewlett-Packard will get deep discounts on the price of each chip. That will give Hewlett a significant cost advantage over rivals.
In an interview last December, before shareholders approved Hewlett's purchase of Compaq, Richard A. Hackborn, a board member and a former senior executive, portrayed Itanium as a potentially crucial advantage for the combined company. 
As part of its partnership with Intel, Hewlett was granted early access to chip designs and a deeper understanding of the technology, Mr. Hackborn said. So it will have a technical edge on other makers of Itanium-based servers, he argued, in addition to lower costs. That could make Hewlett the lead integrator of the Intel microprocessor and Microsoft operating systems in corporate data centers. 
"That's a huge opportunity," Mr. Hackborn said. If Hewlett can exploit that opportunity, he added, "That puts the new H.P. on a comparable footing with Intel and Microsoft."
There are other benefits for Hewlett-Packard. The Itanium allows the company to eliminate both of its current 64-bit chips -- the H.P. PA-RISC and Compaq Alpha. That alone should save the company $200 million to $400 million annually in development and manufacturing costs, according to Steven M. Milunovich, an analyst at Merrill Lynch.
Yet if Itanium fails, he said, "the real loss is the opportunity cost."
In the commercial market, Hewlett badly needs a credible strategy and a marketing message. Itanium, Mr. Milunovich said, is an essential part of the plan establishing Hewlett as the leading packager and integrator of Itanium-based systems.
"If everything works according to plan, H.P. could be best positioned to be the company to take PC economics into the enterprise," Mr. Milunovich said.
If Itanium fails, he added, Hewlett-Packard will be forced to go with Yamhill or AMD, and it will lose its hoped-for advantages in making large data-serving computers. 
In the end, Itanium may be most vulnerable to a force that neither Intel nor Hewlett-Packard can control: the economy. Even if Itanium proves a technical success, the most powerful incentive for companies to shift to it lies in the high-performance computing power needed for ambitious new information technology projects. But in the sluggish economy, few companies are increasing capital spending.
"The real challenge to the Itanium may have less to do with marketing and design and more to do with a collapsing economy," said Michael Shulman, an analyst at ChangeWave, a research firm in Potomac, Md.
Mr. Shulman's firm regularly asks corporate information technology managers about spending plans. From last summer to this summer, he said, interest in the Itanium eroded sharply as spending on new computing projects was reined in.
"The common view is, 'If it doesn't save us money we have no interest in it,' " Mr. Shulman said. "It's a very hard-nosed view."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael J. Fister, a manager who took over the Itanium chip project at Intel, says the chip, right, just needs some time. (Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Outlook for a New Chip"Intel's Itanium chip has struggled out of the gate. Looking five years ahead, market researchers say the chip, developed with Hewlett-Packard, may garner less than 10 percent of the server market. Graph projects computer server chip revenue from 2001-2007 for the following:I.B.M. MAINFRAME RISC: (SGI, Hewlett-Packard, I.B.M., Sun Microsystems and Compaq) INTEL PENTIUM SERVER CHIPS ITANIUM: (Intel and Hewlett-Packard) (Source: Gartner)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROPROCESSORS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); NETWORK SERVERS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); BUDGETS (75%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); MERGERS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; SALES; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%); GOOGLE INC (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (84%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP; HEWLETT-PACKARD CO; GOOGLE.COM; ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (84%); AMD (NYSE) (58%); AMD (FRA) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; 

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (59%) MARKOFF, JOHN; LOHR, STEVE; SCHMIDT, ERIC (DR); FISTER, MICHAEL J 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



778 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2584 words

HEADLINE: A New-Model Ford on a Risky Track 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
IN the lobby of Ford Motor's corporate headquarters here, there's a countdown clock that, at one moment this morning, read 260 days, 23 hours, 59 minutes and 59 seconds. That's how long William Clay Ford Jr. has to right his great-grandfather's company before its centennial on June 16.
 "The centennial is obviously a hugely important time for this company because it celebrates something that most American companies don't reach," Mr. Ford said in an interview looking back on his first 11 months as chief executive. "As proud as I am of our history, I'm more interested in our future." 
 Nearly a year after pushing out the company's hard-charging and abrasive previous chief executive, Jacques A. Nasser, Mr. Ford has managed to win over some skeptics in the industry -- largely for remaking the management team -- but hardly all of them. Many analysts remain deeply pessimistic about the company, which lost $5.5 billion last year. What Ford still lacks and desperately needs, its critics say, are more new cars and new trucks that people want to buy. Most of all, it has to reduce its costs to be competitive with rivals. 
Since Mr. Ford took over, the company's stock price has fallen 40 percent. Although the company recently surprised Wall Street by saying it would have its second consecutive profitable quarter after four in the red, the profits are slight. And while overall auto sales are high, Ford's market share continues to fall despite its aggressive spending on incentives like interest-free financing; meanwhile, its archrival, General Motors, is tallying a slight gain in share.
"The last year, there hasn't been much fun about it," said Mr. Ford, 45. "Particularly the last nine months, when you wake up and wonder what land mine is going to explode today. And there was no shortage of them, obviously. But I do see light at the end of the tunnel."
Mr. Ford has spent much of his time simply getting the corporate house in order. Now he has to ensure that his management team will actually figure out how to cut billions of dollars in costs and make sure his plans to introduce 60 new or redesigned cars and trucks over the next three years is realized. Mr. Ford has made some progress in smoothing tense relationships with suppliers, dealers, employees and some consumers, but doubters still wonder if he is tough enough and experienced enough to finish the job. 
In a period of mercenary chief executives, Mr. Ford comes across as a weary father of four, which he is, trying to wrestle the family business back from the brink. But this family business is one of the world's most storied and complex. Wanting to save it runs in the genes -- and bank accounts. His extended family owns 40 percent of the voting shares.
MR. FORD, who goes by Bill, first reported for work, as a product planning analyst, in 1979. That was the last year his uncle, Henry Ford II, reigned at the company, which he had revived from near bankruptcy in the 1940's.
No question, Bill Ford represents change. Although he has been criticized recently by the Sierra Club for supporting the industry's lobbying against higher gasoline mileage standards, Mr. Ford is a far cry from the typical Motor City executive. He is a vegetarian in a steak-loving industry and a black belt in tae kwon do who keeps an acoustic guitar in his office. His musical taste runs to Bob Dylan, and in moments of escape, he likes going to folk clubs in Ann Arbor, where he lives. (Most auto executives gravitate to Detroit's more conservative, wealthier suburbs, like Bloomfield Hills.) 
For years, he has made speeches warning about global warming, the very existence of which many auto executives question. His pet project is rebuilding the sprawling River Rouge plant in Dearborn -- Henry Ford's superfactory -- with a roof covered in vegetation that would convert carbon dioxide emissions into oxygen.
By most accounts, Mr. Ford preferred overseeing the company as chairman -- his previous role -- to running day-to-day operations. But by last October, his options had narrowed. The company had been devastated by mismanagement, its products were aging and its Explorer had been wounded by the Firestone tire blowout debacle. The company's manufacturing efficiencies and quality rankings lagged behind not only the Japanese but also G.M. 
"The situation is difficult," said Stephen Girsky, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, calling Ford "the high-cost producer in a marginally differentiated commodity business."
If the automotive operations were struggling a year ago, its financial operations were arguably worse. Ford's financing unit was badly overextended because of aggressive lending to customers with shaky credit. And some of the company's blunders were downright embarrassing: it lost, for example, $1 billion for not properly hedging against price shifts in platinum used in catalytic converters.
The burden weighs heavily on Mr. Ford. "I feel like I'm a caretaker of our culture and our legacy," he said. "I'm working for my children and grandchildren, and I feel I'm working for our employees' children and grandchildren as well. I think our employees have a sense that there's accountability here, that I'm not going to take the money and run."
To get things rolling, he presented a turnaround plan in January that cuts 35,000 jobs; that goal hinges on having labor unions agree to close five plants. Mr. Ford's mantra is "back to basics" -- focusing on Ford's core business, making cars and trucks. Mr. Nasser had wanted to make Ford a more broadly focused consumer products conglomerate.
Since announcing the plan, Mr. Ford has tried to rebuild the company's image by starring in the industry's biggest personality-driven TV campaign this side of Lee Iacocca; the multimillion-dollar effort will grab about one-third of the Ford brand's total ad budget.
But with Wall Street, investors and the news media, he has taken a much lower profile. "I didn't want to go out and talk about the progress we were making until I had a coherent story to tell," he said. "Only now do I feel like we're at the point where we can go out, and you'll see us more visible with investors and Wall Street. But, frankly, what we laid out was a five-year plan."
Even some bulls question the approach. "It would be reassuring to see Bill and some of the senior people more often, to understand the texture of what's going on inside the company," said John Casesa, a Merrill Lynch analyst. "Short of information, people assume the worst when you're in this kind of a turnaround situation." 
While Mr. Casesa gives Mr. Ford credit for rebuilding the company's entire top level of management, others say more shuffling is needed.
Peter J. Pestillo, chief executive of the auto supply giant Visteon and a former top Ford executive, said: "I think Bill is a terrific executive who is well grounded in the company. He inherited a place in significant disrepair. I don't believe he's made as many executive changes as he needs to to be effective."
To address the company's stagnating auto business in North America, Mr. Ford had looked to one of the company's few bright spots, Ford of Europe, which is in the midst of a successful turnaround. Last fall, he named Nicholas V. Scheele, that unit's chairman, president and chief operating officer.
But critics wanted more, especially the analysts who said the cost cutting was not fast enough. In May, Ford announced that it would elevate another top European executive, David W. Thursfield, a respected and tough specialist in cost cutting. He heads worldwide purchasing. 
In mid-September, Mr. Scheele said Ford was ahead of its goal to cut costs in future vehicles by $200 each.
The management that most concerned Mr. Ford was at Ford Credit, the financing arm.
Problems heightened last December, when the company caught Wall Street off guard by saying its quarterly loss would be five times as much as expected. The culprit was a tide of car repossessions and delinquent loans. 
"The biggest fear I had in January was that Ford Credit was going to implode," Mr. Ford said. "I also knew that the rest of my management team were all automotive types. Our ability to step in and fix Ford Credit was limited."
Mr. Ford tapped Carl Reichardt, 71, the former chief executive of Wells Fargo and a Ford board member, to oversee finances as vice chairman and Allan D. Gilmour, 68, to return as chief financial officer.
Greg C. Smith, installed to run Ford Credit, said: "We were aggressively growing some elements of our business that we are not any longer. We had started a subprime or nonprime automotive lending company called Fairlane Credit that we have stopped."
Analysts are still concerned about another practice at Ford Credit (as well as at G.M. and Chrysler): the proliferation of incentives like interest-free financing. In a report this month, Gary Lapidus of Goldman, Sachs said Ford's lending practices could put it in considerable financial disarray. Ford Credit may not be able to generate enough equity to support zero percent loans, he wrote, or consumers might stop responding to incentives, causing a sales slump.
The report suggested that Ford might well face a cash crisis by mid-decade. Ford Motor disputed some of its figures in a regulatory filing.
What the company does not dispute is that its cost structure is higher than that of many rivals, even G.M. Mr. Thursfield has said that the company needs to rethink its product development processes and manufacturing operations so that vehicles are designed and built at a cost in line with the competition. Mr. Thursfield has said he found the radios that Ford buys from Visteon too expensive, for example -- but largely because Ford ordered 150 different kinds of radios instead of a dozen, driving up complexity and cost.
 ADDRESSING the disparity will be crucial. In the plan announced in January, cost cutting accounts for half of the $9 billion in improved annual profitability the company has said it will achieve by mid-decade.
"I expect us to be cash-flow positive through the '05 period, and frankly cash flow this year is coming in much better than forecast," Mr. Ford said. "Cash won't be the issue. What keeps me up at night is the macroeconomic stuff I can't control."
Mr. Casesa, of Merrill Lynch, called Ford "a very tough stock right now." 
"Historically," he said, "these companies get into trouble when volumes collapse. Therefore, you can model a turnaround with some confidence. At some point the environment will get better. Right now, Ford is in trouble in a relatively strong unit environment. Bulls like me would say if volumes hold up, Ford has levers it can pull that will improve its positions." But bears, he added, do not believe that volumes will hold up.
Ford in particular lacks enough new models to compete. In the last couple of years, the market has been flooded with fresh-looking cars, S.U.V.'s and pickups from G.M., Toyota, Honda and Nissan, while Hyundai has made huge strides at the bottom end of the market.
The company's turnaround projections in January also leaned heavily on expanding profits from its premier brands -- Volvo, Jaguar, Aston Martin and Land Rover -- but they are struggling. Last week, Mr. Scheele told reporters at the Paris auto show that Jaguar would have a $500 million operating loss for 2002.
Next year, in one of the industry's most scrutinized introductions, Ford will offer a redesign of its F-Series pickup, the nation's best-selling automobile line. It hopes to create a pickup for all tastes with five F-Series trucks, including some with luxury interiors. F-Series is believed to be the company's most profitable line, but the new version will cost more to make, Ford has conceded.
"They have a new strategy on F-Series," said Mr. Girsky of Morgan Stanley. "They're trying to segment the market more aggressively than they have in the past. If it works, it has big share opportunities for them, and if not, there's cost risk."
But much of the company's hopes will be put off until 2004. The design of the aging Taurus will be freshened, but the company is putting more stock into the new Ford Five Hundred, intended to be an alternative to stylish sedans like the Nissan Altima and the Volkswagen Passat. It will be larger than a Taurus and stand higher off the ground.
"I think it looks great, almost like they're taking the Taurus up a notch in terms of fit and finish," said Mr. Girsky, who has seen pictures of the prototype circulated to analysts. "It looks more European than the typical midsized car sedan. The question is, 'Can you bring it in at a cost where the economics make sense?' "
Another important new product for 2004, the CrossTrainer, a blend of a station wagon and S.U.V., could be the first Big Three vehicle to compete with Subaru wagons. 
"We have to hang on until next summer," said Jerry Reynolds, owner of Ford dealerships in Texas and Oklahoma and former chairman of the Ford National Dealer Council. "Then, the product pipeline starts to hit in areas we need it. F-Series is going to be huge. The new Expedition is doing very well, and the Explorer, which has been a mainstay, is picking up momentum."
Mr. Reynolds said Mr. Ford had improved relations with dealers, spending time with them and providing a candid picture of the company's product plans. "It's been night and day from what we had under Jacques Nasser," Mr. Reynolds said. 
Mr. Ford also made it a priority to mend fences with white-collar workers by scrapping a controversial grading system that denied bonuses to 10 percent of the work force; blue-collar workers have had an affinity for Mr. Ford since he rushed to the River Rouge plant after an explosion killed six workers in 1996, and many also relish a return of a Ford to a company often called "Ford's." 
One relationship that has grown strained is with environmentalists. They have criticized him for not bucking the industry's lobbying against tighter gas mileage requirements, which have not been increased much since the 1980's. 
"He's got to clearly lay out where we are going to be in five years, in seven years, what are our products are going to look like and what our fuel economy will be," said Kevin Sweeney, an environmental activist and consultant who has worked with Mr. Ford and urged him to be more assertive. "It's reasonable to say it takes a year to figure these things out as C.E.O. Saying those things out loud would be a break from a really staid industry, and I think that would add luster to the company."
Mr. Ford said his main objective was rescuing the company. But he also said the company remained committed to environmental goals, like increasing S.U.V. fuel economy by 25 percent by mid-decade and selling a hybrid S.U.V., powered by gasoline and electricity, next year. 
"The easiest thing for me would have been to be an idealist and leave this industry and go pursue pure environmental goals," he said. "But as C.E.O., I have a lot of balls in the air. The environment is not going to be much enhanced if Ford Motor Company isn't a strong company."
Is Ford getting stronger? It could be worse. The Detroit Lions, the hapless football team owned by the Ford family, now has trouble even keeping games close.
"It's been brutal, and I've given up everything for this job," he said about being C.E.O. "I see my kids and I do this job and that's it. But that's O.K. I am getting some satisfaction now over watching this big battleship start to turn. And I'll get more satisfaction the more confirmation of that we get."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about William Clay Ford Jr.'s management of the Ford Motor Company since he became chief executive last October misstated the year in which an explosion killed six workers at its River Rouge plant. It was 1999, not 1996.

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Clay Ford Jr., chief executive of Ford Motor, has worked for the troubled automaker since 1979. (Jeffrey Sauger for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Ford is relying on the new Five Hundred sedan, above, and the Cross-Trainer, a blend of station wagon and sport utility vehicle, to help revive its declining market share. (pg. 12) Chart: "Ford Embattled: Trying to Halt the Slide" Graph tracks Ford Motor Company stock price from Oct. 2001 through Sept. 2002. (Price Friday -- $9.63) DEC. 5, '01 -- Ford says its loss for the fourth quarter will be five times greater than analysts' forecasts. JAN. 11, '02 -- The company announces its most sweeping cutbacks in two decades, planning to cut 35,000 jobs, close five plants and drop four models.'MARCH 1 -- Chevrolet outsells the Ford brand in February - the first month that has happened in more than a decade. MAY 1 -- Every major automaker except Ford reports sales increases for March. MAY 21 -- Trying to bolster credibility on Wall Street, Ford brings its former vice chairman, Allan D. Gilmour, out of retirement and increases the responsibilities of, David W. Thursfield, chairman of Ford Europe. JULY 17 -- The company reports a return to profitability after four quarters in the red. AUG. 18 -- The company extends a summer sale through the end of September amid intense competition. SEPT. 4 -- The company says August was the best month ever for sales of the Ford Explorer. SEPT. 9 -- Defying analysts' forecasts, the company says it expects to post an operating profit for the current quarter. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets Stock price )(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); MARKET SHARE (67%) AUTOMOBILES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; SALES; LABOR; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY; FORD, WILLIAM CLAY JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



779 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Poverty Is More Than a Matter of Income 

BYLINE:  By Ray Boshara; Ray Boshara is a program director at the New America Foundation.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Last week, in an annual autumn ritual, the Census Bureau released its latest statistics on poverty and income. After falling for four consecutive years, the poverty rate rose to 11.7 percent in 2001. But this figure, whether rising or declining, tells only part of the story about poverty in America: It measures only income. For a more complete picture -- and a more disheartening one -- it is necessary to measure the assets of the poor as well.
 Between 1983 and 1998, the last year for which a comparison can be made, income poverty declined about 16 percent, while asset poverty rose 14 percent. Today, fully one-quarter of the United States population is asset-poor. This means that, if they had to live only on their net worth -- savings, home equity and other assets -- they could survive at the poverty level for three months. Take away home equity, or just consider liquid assets, and the poverty rate jumps to nearly 40 percent. 
 When families don't have enough income, they can't buy enough food, shelter, clothing and other necessities. With 33 million Americans now classified as officially "poor," income poverty is a huge problem. But at least twice as many families don't have enough assets -- and so they lose their economic security and their ability to plan, dream and pass on opportunities to future generations. Lack of income means you don't get by; lack of assets means you don't get ahead.
Clearly, both income and assets are important measures of well-being. But when the government frames the problem in terms of income, the solutions are framed in terms of income. Hence, reports of rising poverty are usually met with calls for greater income and food assistance, higher rental subsidies and increases in the Earned Income Tax Credit and minimum wage. The need for the poor to save and build assets is hardly discussed.
In fact, it turns out that the federal government has two policies. For the nonpoor, there is over $300 billion a year in tax breaks or incentives for individuals for asset development: tax deductions for home mortgages, favorable treatment for contributions to retirement plans or college-savings plans, myriad benefits for small business ownership and stock investment. Over 90 percent of these benefits go to families earning more than $50,000 a year. Combine these inaccessible income tax breaks with strict asset limits in public-assistance programs, and the poor face asset denial.
It's not that the government doesn't spend on the poor. It's that it spends very differently on the poor. They are grudgingly provided barely enough income and food to get by, while better-off Americans receive generous subsidies to build assets to get ahead.
This disparity in asset accumulation shows up in data on wealth inequality -- which, not surprisingly, dwarfs income inequality and reaches well into the middle class. The top 20 percent of households earn about 56 percent of the nation's income -- but command 83 percent of our wealth. The bottom 60 percent, the majority of the country, earns 23 percent of the nation's income -- but owns less than 5 percent of the wealth. And the bottom 40 percent earns 10 percent of national income but owns less than 1 percent of the wealth. Despite the greater magnitude of wealth inequality, however, income inequality -- like income poverty -- receives far more public attention.
To be sure, there have been some efforts to rethink the poverty line, including a comprehensive study by the National Academy of Sciences, some of whose recommendations are now included in annual census reports. And some advocates for the poor have proposed the use of a self-sufficiency standard to better capture the needs of the poor.
Most helpful, however, would be a set of policies to help the asset-poor, not just the income-poor. We know such policies can work. In a nationwide demonstration project, in which savings are matched on a 2-for-1 basis, the poorest of the poor -- those at 50 percent of the poverty line or below -- are saving more than 3 percent of their income. We can help the poor accumulate more assets with matching deposits and refundable tax credits for savings that lead to homeownership, higher education, business development, investment and retirement. To combat pervasive child poverty and enable asset accumulation throughout life, we could establish a savings account at birth for every person in America.
If we continue to combat poverty primarily in terms of income, we do not merely mislead ourselves with a false sense of progress or an insufficient sense of urgency. We also deny the poor benefits and strategies for improving their lives that we have long offered to millions of other Americans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); POVERTY RATES (93%); CENSUS (91%); POOR POPULATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (85%); INCOME TAX (85%); TRENDS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CENSUS; INCOME; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%) CENSUS BUREAU 

PERSON: BOSHARA, RAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



780 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2654 words

HEADLINE: May I Speak to the Manager? AStorm at Marriott 

BYLINE:  By LYNNLEY BROWNING 

 BODY:
FOR John J. Flatley, a multimillionaire property developer, the eviction of his trusted overseer was more than he could bear.
 Mr. Flatley, an experienced real estate executive, had hired Marriott International to run his big new hotel in Quincy, Mass., south of Boston, but had installed his own man, Steven Lambert, to keep an eye on the business. The relationship between Mr. Flatley's team and Marriott had grown contentious over some disputed invoices, and the breaking point came last March, when Mr. Lambert asked Marriott to explain what he said was a vaguely worded bill to the hotel for $3,000 in unspecified sales and marketing services. 
 "Marriott said, 'You're not privy to that information,' " said Philip A. Baldi, the chief financial officer of the Flatley Company, in Braintree, Mass., which runs a Flatley family trust that owns the hotel. Marriott, Mr. Baldi said, then ousted the asset manager from his hotel office. 
Last month, just 15 months after his Boston Marriott Quincy Hotel opened, Mr. Flatley sued Marriott in Federal District Court in Boston, accusing it of fraud, accounting irregularities, mismanagement and taking kickbacks from suppliers.
At least three other lawsuits by the owners of Marriott-run hotels -- including Ritz-Carltons, Marriotts and Renaissances in several cities -- make similar complaints, tarnishing the company's reputation and its stock price. 
At stake is not just Marriott's market value but tens of millions of dollars in fees -- and, perhaps, the balance of power in the $80 billion hospitality industry.
Hotel owners now pay Marriott up to 17 percent of their gross revenue in fees, up from about 9 percent in the early 1990's, said Jack Westergom, an asset manager at Manhattan Hospitality Advisors, a consulting firm in Manhattan Beach, Calif.
In some cases, hotel owners say Marriott's fees have unexpectedly doubled or tripled, in part because of what one lawsuit calls self-dealing by Marriott.
"Marriott had always seemed to run great properties," Mr. Baldi said. "But then they built a culture of secrecy in their accounting practices. Had we known what we were getting into, we wouldn't have gotten into it." Last year, he said, Marriott billed the hotel about $8 million, but despite repeated requests by Flatley has yet to provide invoices backing up the expenses. Flatley has hired two forensic accountants, Warren M. Schneider and Raymond R. Ciccone, to review Marriott's books in connection with the lawsuit.
Marriott, based in Bethesda, Md., denies the allegations and dismisses the suits as harassment by a tiny fraction of the 500 independent business owners who have hired the company to manage almost 2,500 hotels.
"We are in these lawsuits because we will not submit to extortion by owners who are trying to renegotiate contracts or insist that we rescue them from their bad business investments," said James E. Akers, a senior vice president and associate general counsel at Marriott.
Still, some investors -- increasingly concerned about what many say is Marriott's opaque accounting and the specter of lawsuits like Mr. Flatley's -- smell blood. Short-sellers have been putting pressure on the stock in recent weeks, betting that its price will fall. And it has fallen, by 34 percent from its high of $46.45 in April. It closed on Friday at $30.48.
In addition to accusing Marriott of refusing to explain additional fees that can double or triple the management fees set out in their contracts, the plaintiffs' lawsuits contend that Marriott is reaping hundreds of thousands and possibly millions of dollars in kickbacks from hotel suppliers. They say that it does this by channeling goods and services for hotels through Avendra, a purchasing company that is run by former Marriott executives. (Marriott is half-owner of Avendra; the remainder is owned by Hyatt, ClubCorp, Six Continents Hotels and Fairmont Hotels and Resorts.) The hotels say that the payments originate as rebates on volume purchases and that the money belongs to them.
IN addition to Flatley, the other companies suing Marriott include Strategic Hotel Capital of Chicago, which owns 27 luxury Marriott-brand hotels. It sued Marriott last month over the way it has run three resorts in Southern California -- the Ritz-Carlton Laguna Niguel, the Rancho Las Palmas Marriott and the Renaissance Beverly Hills. In Town Hotels, the owner of a Marriott in Charleston, W.Va., and CTF Hotel Holdings, one of the biggest owners of Marriott hotels, have also sued. In its suit filed last April, CTF, which is based in Hong Kong and is a unit of the New World Development Company, also asserted that Marriott had violated racketeering laws.
The plaintiffs contend that Marriott refuses to provide invoices detailing what it or Avendra pay for goods and services bought on behalf of its client hotels, and whether those hotels could have procured them elsewhere for less.
The lawsuits, which seek unspecified damages, challenge a significant part of the $236 million in profit that Marriott reported last year on revenue of $10.15 billion. Marriott's profit last year was already down 51 percent from a year earlier, and its earnings could fall further if it loses the lawsuits or decides to renegotiate its management agreements on terms more favorable to owners.
A handful of owners have already renegotiated their contracts, gaining more influence over Marriott's management of their affairs and a greater cut of profits. Host Marriott, a real estate management company that is the biggest owner of Marriott-managed hotels, won new terms last July, having made claims similar to those in the lawsuits. (Marriott, which is run by J. W. Marriott Jr., and Host Marriott, whose chairman is his younger brother, Richard E. Marriott, were created in 1993 by the breakup of the Marriott Corporation.) CTF reached a similar agreement, in 1999, but its lawsuit complains that Marriott has violated the terms of that deal.
OTHER owners are also considering legal action, according to several lawyers and owners, most of whom spoke on condition of anonymity. 
"We're following all of these litigations very closely and are trying to get an understanding of what they mean for our hotels," said Michael D. Barnello, the chief operating officer of LaSalle Hotel Properties, a real estate investment trust in Bethesda that owns four Marriotts.
Marriott, which owned scores of hotels before selling them in the early 1990's, manages several chains, including the midpriced Courtyard and Residence Inn names.
A brand that promotes its origins in a 1927 root-beer stand owned by the parents of J. W. and Richard Marriott, Marriott has long been considered a leading example of solid leisure service. The company is not the only hotel manager to be criticized by the actual owners of its various hotel properties. Hyatt and Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide have also been hit with lawsuits making similar claims in recent years. Rebates, extra fees and an unwillingness to share documentation with owners are industrywide practices, said Donald Winter, an independent hotel consultant based in San Francisco.
Management contracts have been an industry fixture for two decades. And for most of that time hotel owners operated with almost blind trust in their operators.
Owners typically pay a hotel management company like Marriott management fees of around 3 to 4 percent of a hotel's gross revenue, incentive fees of around 20 percent of cash flow, marketing fees of around 2 percent of gross revenue and centralized service fees of around 5 percent of gross revenue. In return, the management company handles all of a hotel's operations, from hiring staff and booking guests to buying food, linens and furnishings to running marketing programs for frequent guests. The owners send revenues directly to Marriott-controlled bank accounts, and Marriott pays their bills, often providing no more than general invoices.
Such arrangements have let real-estate developers focus on what they do best -- building hotels -- while leaving the details of operating the hotels to professional managers. Those managers, in turn, get the benefits of steady fees and access to owners' capital -- all without risks like mortgages and pressing loans.
This relationship began to unravel in the economic downturn of the late 1980's, and the process accelerated through the last decade. Some owners, desperate to shore up profits, began questioning charges. Managers, eager for new sources of revenue, began levying new fees for an expanding list of services like guest loyalty programs and audio-visual equipment rentals.
Now, with the economy again weak, the stock market floundering and occupancy rates down, the owners are stepping up their campaign.
They are emboldened by a recent verdict against a management company. In 1999, a Federal District Court in Delaware awarded $51 million to the owner of a Sheraton hotel in Washington after finding that the Sheraton unit of Starwood took payments from suppliers that were in fact rebates belonging to the owner. While the award was later reduced, to $30 million, the case validated the legal theory that management companies have a duty to build wealth for their clients, the owners -- much as mutual fund managers are entrusted with making money for investors.
In their suits, hotel owners complain about poor service as well as high fees. The Flatley lawsuit, for example, contends that Marriott filled a job at the hotel in Quincy with a convicted drug dealer who kept a gun in the hotel's health club. It also complained that Marriott booked a convention for fans of the fantasy game Dungeons and Dragons last January at a deeply-discounted price -- a move that the owner's lawyer said would make it harder to attract the professional groups that the hotel had hoped to draw. "Once you get those guys, you're not going to get the orthopedic surgeons convention," said William E. Wallace III, a lawyer at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy who represents Flatley.
The plaintiffs' biggest complaints against Marriott concern Avendra, a centralized joint venture created in March 2001. Marriott said the company is the successor to its internal purchasing arms, and buys everything from lightbulbs to cleaning supplies to little bottles of shampoo.
The complaints contend that Marriott uses Avendra's enormous power for bulk purchases to secure millions of dollars in rebates each year from suppliers. The suits claim that any rebates are owed to the owners and that for Avendra to keep them, they amount to kickbacks.
In Town, for example, contends that Marriott took rebates for long-distance services, newspapers and other goods it bought through Avendra from AT&T, USA Today and American Express. USA Today did not respond to questions about the matter. Representatives of AT&T and American Express said the two companies sometimes offered incentives -- which they characterized as a standard practice -- in co-marketing deals with other entities, but declined to be specific.
Mr. Akers, the Marriott lawyer, said Avendra saved hotel owners about 8 percent a year on what they would have paid had they used other suppliers. He added that Avendra lost $1 million in its first year. The company said it spends $10 billion on supplies each year.
Richard S. Hoffman, a senior vice president for finance at Marriott, said his company "makes no money on rebates" from any vendors. He said Marriott distributed back to some hotel owners "several million dollars in rebates" last year but declined to provide details.
Hotel owners also say Marriott engages in related-party transactions -- doing business with companies in which it owns a significant stake -- and that this is to their detriment. In its suit, Flatley contends that Marriott uses one of its own subsidiaries, Marriott Distribution Services, to transport supplies -- an arrangement that Flatley believes raises costs.
Separately, CTF contends in its suit that Marriott received rebates from the Molloy Corporation, an audio-visual services company, via a Marriott program called "Marriott Visual Presentations," or MVP. Molloy owns MVP, said Roger W. Conner, a Marriott spokesman. John Molloy, Molloy's director, declined comment.
CTF also says in its suit that, at Marriott's urging, it signed a contract in 1998 with Molloy to provide video presentations at corporate meetings. CTF says that it paid $1.03 million to Molloy in 2000 but that $706,809, or 70 percent, went back to Marriott. CTF says Marriott returned to it more than $2 million it had paid to Molloy.
Marriott says it never tried to conceal its arrangement with Molloy, and did get permission from CTF before beginning. "They knew we were making a profit on it, and they agreed to it," said Richard Hoffman, Marriott's senior vice president for finance. "These are not kickbacks."
Hotel owners are also increasingly upset about the fees they pay for new services and programs created by Marriott, like preferred-guest perks and restaurant upgrades. The fees are in addition to those covered by the basic management contracts and are often embedded in other charges.
"The managers have been looking for various ways to increase their fee income, and they've been incredibly creative," Mr. Westergom said. He said Marriott and other managers charge 40 to 50 separate fees for services ranging from daily accounting and bandwidth connection to souped-up national reservations offices, brochures and trade shows.
Some owners complained that some fees were for services they had never requested. CTF says it never agreed to partake in Marriott's Renaissance Street Restaurant and Bar initiative, which creates trendy restaurants at Marriott-managed Renaissance hotels. But CTF says it was charged for it anyway -- $394,000 last year and $137,000 in 2000.
In a similar gripe, the Flatley complaint alleges that Marriott overbills for some commissions paid to travel agents it trains. Independent agents who complete Marriott's Hotel Excellence program receive 10 percent commissions when they book guests into Marriott-managed hotels, compared with 8 percent for other agents. Flatley says that its basic management fee already covers training and commissions and that the surcharge for higher payments is unjustified and raises its own costs.
Mr. Flatley's investment trust paid almost $940,000 last year in what it says were unjustified extra charges, nearly twice the $561,250 core management fee it paid to Marriott, according to the complaint.
CTF contends that in 2000 it paid Marriott extra charges and fees of $48 million, on top of a base fee of $18.45 million and an incentive fee of $7.8 million. A lawyer for CTF, Jonathan J. Lerner of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, said that only some of the fees were justified because CTF had agreed to participate in certain programs, but he declined to provide details.
 EVEN some Marriott clients who have not sued the company said they don't like the way it accounts for its charges. "We've had issue with their disclosure for years," said Mr. Barnello, the LaSalle executive. "When our hotel is charged something, we want to know what it's for and how does it benefit my property."
Not even the head accountant for the Boston Marriott Quincy, who was hired by Marriott and works at the hotel, has access to detailed invoices and charges, said Mr. Baldi, the financial officer for Flatley. Through a program called Project Mercury, Marriott now runs all of its accounting from Knoxville, Tenn.
Mr. Akers, the Marriott lawyer, said the company could be "hard to understand" because it has a centralized business model that spreads costs among its clients. Last month, Marriott representatives began meeting with hotel owners to explain its methods and fees.
Marriott said it is also preparing a Web site on which it will detail invoices and charges for each owner. The site should be running early next year, the company said.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about growing hostility between Marriott International and owners of hotels managed by Marriott referred incorrectly to two members of the family whose trust owns a Marriott hotel in Quincy, Mass. It was Thomas J. Flatley, as chief executive of the Flatley Company, who hired Marriott to manage the hotel. (His son John J. Flatley oversees the family trust and is the plaintiff in its suit against Marriott.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: The accountants Warren M. Schneider, top left, and Raymond R. Ciccone. Marriott manages the Ritz-Carlton in Dana Point, Calif., above. (Top, G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times; above, The New York Times)(pg. 13); Owners of the Rancho Las Palmas Marriott resort in Rancho Mirage, Calif., are among those suing Marriott International, complaining of its hotel management. (pg. 1) Chart: "Trouble in the Hotel Business"Marriott International's stock price has been hurt by an industry slump and by lawsuits challenging the fees it charges to manage hotels for other companies. Those fees are the bulk of its profits. Graph tracks the stock prices and the percent change since July 31, '01 for both the Bloomberg United States Lodging index and Marriott International. Graph tracks Marriott revenue from 1999-2001. OTHER -- Properties including time- shares, nursing care and retirement homes and executive apartments DISTRIBUTION SERVICES MANAGEMENT AND FRANCHISE FEES OTHER REVENUE FROM MANAGED PROPERTIES -- Reimbursement of costs and fees for goods and services (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Company reports)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); HOTEL STAFF (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LODGING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); BRIBERY (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); EXTORTION (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); FORENSICS (50%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (96%); FLATLEY CO (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC; AVENDRA 

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (96%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (96%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (69%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (69%) SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS; 

PERSON: BROWNING, LYNNLEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



781 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: The World: How It Works; 
Calculating Checks and Balances at the World Bank

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
FINANCE ministers and central bankers from around the world streamed into Washington late last week for the annual meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. They were shadowed by thousands of protesters who see the institutions as embodiments of fiscal policies that make globalization a destructive force and leave the world's most vulnerable people without the assistance they need.
 After a few experiences with this now-familiar dance, has the World Bank changed? In fact, just what does the World Bank do? 

No Free Toasters
The World Bank, the world's leading poverty-fighting organization, makes loans to struggling countries to help them improve health, education and other services. It finances the construction of roads, power plants and other expensive projects necessary for development, and administers a plan to write off some debts run up by its client nations over the decades.
It is the sister agency of the I. M. F., which bails out governments that find themselves faced with a financial crisis. Both the bank and fund were founded in 1944, the brainchildren of John Maynard Keynes and other economists and government officials who gathered in Bretton Woods, N.H., to plot a postwar economic strategy.
The bank is theoretically governed by 184 member nations. As a practical matter, the United States, which has what amounts to nearly 20 percent ownership of the bank, has the greatest influence. Reflecting that clout, the president has always been an American. It is currently James D. Wolfensohn, an Australian-born former investment banker who was appointed in 1995 by President Bill Clinton. 
The World Bank doesn't have any A.T.M.'s, but in some ways it functions much like Citicorp or any other big commercial bank. It raises most of its money by selling bonds to investors, including some individuals, then lends the money back out through its main subsidiary, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, roughly at market rates of interest. 
The bank also makes special low-interest loans to the very poorest nations, financed out of contributions from 40 donor nations, including the United States, which next year will give about $875 million (Japan will give around $700 million and Germany and Britain less than $500 million each.) 
Whether the World Bank has actually done much to alleviate poverty is a much-debated question. Even the bank's supporters say it has not achieved enough.
In fairness, the bank is dealing with intractable problems, primarily in Africa, Asia and Latin America. And it is trying to do so in a way that reflects shifting theories about economic development and political crosscurrents from the rich donor nations, starting with the United States.

Dam Fools
Faced with intense criticism from both the left and the right, and from governments and street protesters, the bank has transformed itself in many ways over the last decade. 
Up through the early 1990's, its focus was on big building projects intended to provide the power, transportation and communications systems that are the physical foundations of an economy. But those projects were often ill conceived and poorly executed, and became magnets for protests in Washington and in the countries where the bank operates.
Some of the most vilified projects were hydroelectric dams, which were often the centerpiece of World Bank development programs. One of the most infamous was a dam-building project on the Narmada River in India. The bank originally helped India's government finance the project. But after years of protests that the building of the dams was leading to the forced relocation of hundreds of thousands of people and widespread environmental damage, the bank commissioned an independent review in 1992 that found that the bank had violated many of its own policies in approving loans for the dams. The next year the bank pulled out of the project, which the Indian government has continued on its own.
The Narmada debacle helped speed a shift in the bank's focus from big construction programs to dealing with health, education and improving the ability of governments to deliver services. In 1980, according to the bank's Web site, 21 percent of bank lending went to power projects like dams. The figure now is 7 percent. During the same period, lending for health, education, nutrition and other social services has grown to 22 percent of the bank's lending, up from 5 percent.
The protesters who have taken to the streets over the weekend tend to view the economic philosophy adopted by the bank and monetary fund as part of a monolithic "Washington consensus," a belief in the primacy of market forces and fiscal austerity.

What Consensus?
But if there ever was such a consensus, it is awfully frayed now. The Bush administration, in fact, is openly pushing for a re-examination of the way the bank operates. It is demanding that programs demonstrate quantifiable results, like a rising number of children in school or fewer people diagnosed with H.I.V. or increased economic productivity. 
The administration has also pushed, over the objections of some European countries, to replace low-interest loans with outright grants. The American position is that the loans are so subsidized as to be grants in all but name, and that it makes no sense to force recipients to treat them as debt. Europeans fear that the change would be cover for cutting back contributions.
The bank has also sought to involve its critics in the process of developing programs for poor countries. It has reached out to the advocacy groups that deal with poverty, health, the environment and other development issues in Washington and in the countries in which it operates; the banks says two-thirds of the projects it approved last year involved such organizations.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Out with the old: damming the Narmada River in western India, left. In with the new: helping to support AIDS education in South Africa, right. (Reuters); (Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (97%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TRENDS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); POWER PLANTS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); SECURITIES TRADING (62%); INTEREST RATES (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (54%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (83%); CITIGROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%) SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST INDIA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



782 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
An Economic Reality Check From Someone Who's Seen It All

BYLINE:  By Sylvia Nasar (COMPILED BY RICK GLADSTONE) 

 BODY:
At 90, Milton Friedman has witnessed nearly a century's worth of business scandals, booms and busts. How does the current crisis of confidence compare with past bouts of doubt? 
 "It's trivial," he said the other day from his San Francisco office, when asked to compare public disillusionment over corporate fraud and the stock market meltdown with reactions to the 1930's slump, the 1970's stagflation and the 1990's savings-and-loan debacle. 
 Mr. Friedman, the dismal science's most confident contrarian, said he thought the American economy would weather today's troubles just fine -- if the government didn't make a muddle of things as it did in the Depression. In his view, Federal Reserve passivity in the face of widespread bank failures and bankruptcies in the 1930's turned a garden-variety recession into a global disaster.
The biggest risk now, he said, is that overzealous regulators could frighten honest chief executives into ducking legitimate risks. "The system doesn't work unless business is willing to take risks," he said, adding that the public tends to forget that in allocating capital, "losses are just as important as profits."
Those are fighting words. But crises, Mr. Friedman said with a smile, have a way of turning yesterday's heterodoxy into today's conventional wisdom. Sylvia Nasar

GRAPHIC: Photo: Milton Friedman 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); SCANDALS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); BANK FAILURES (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SAVINGS & LOANS (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; FRIEDMAN, MILTON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



783 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Help Wanted; 
Out of a Job and No Longer Looking

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
THE American welfare state was supposed to be dead, victim of the free-market economy and its success in creating a job for anybody who wanted one.
 While European countries maintained huge social-service programs and paid for them with high unemployment, the United States sharply curtailed its best-known welfare program in the mid-1990's and the jobless rate just kept dropping. Even today, two years into an economic slump, the labor market appears healthier than it was for most of the last three decades. 
 But the current downturn is beginning to expose an uncomfortable truth: the American economy looks more like Europe's than most people ever imagined during the triumphal 1990's. 
Millions of people, particularly men, have dropped out of the labor force over the last decade, apparently unable to find work that pays near what they once earned in the blue-collar jobs that have since moved to lower-wage countries. Unwilling to take new jobs that pay far less, neither employed nor looking for work, they are not counted in the jobless rate, and a surprising and growing number of them instead depend on a government check to get by. 
Once these statistical nonpersons are counted, the labor market of today looks all too similar to those of supposedly bleaker past decades, according to a number of recent studies by economists. Even when the unemployment rate was near a 30-year low in 1999 and 2000, men from the ages of 18 to 54, as a group, spent 11 percent of the year not working, roughly the same as in the late 1970's and late 80's, according to one study. 
Things are considerably worse today. In the last two years, the official jobless rate has risen and an additional two million people appear to have dropped out of the labor force. Today, the real level of unemployment for men probably approaches the level of the recession-mired early 80's. 
T HE unemployment rate doesn't mean what it did 20 years ago," said Robert H. Topel, an economist at the University of Chicago and author of the most detailed recent study of the changes. "Employment opportunities for the less skilled are not what they used to be, so people just leave the labor force."
To pay their monthly bills, many of these missing workers have turned to disability insurance, a government program under Social Security that has become the centerpiece of the new American welfare state. Since 1990, the number of people receiving disability pay has nearly doubled, to 5.4 million, and the government now spends far more on the program than it does for food stamps or unemployment insurance.
People who once may have worked through injuries or chronic pain, particularly those without a college education, are increasingly making a choice economic planners did not foresee. They have decided a government benefit, in the form of the roughly $800 in average monthly disability pay, is more attractive than any job.
They make up the biggest group that has left the labor force and help depress the unemployment rate. The growth of the prison population -- to about 2 million today, up from 1.1 million in 1990 and 500,000 in 1980 -- has made another large group of people dependent on the government. And while prisoners themselves do not suffer many of the consequences of joblessness, like eviction or lack of health care, their relatives often do.
OTHER labor-force dropouts are harder to count because the government does not support them. Some have moved in with friends or family, economists say. Still others, caring for children or retired, while their spouse works, are properly not counted as unemployed.
Overall, however, the rise in the number of missing workers calls into question the great achievement of the 1990's economy: the best job market since 1970. According to the official numbers, the jobless rate generally rose from the 1960's through the early 1980's, reaching a peak of 10.8 percent in 1982. Since then, it has generally fallen, dropping to 3.9 percent two years ago. Last month, after a year and a half of widespread layoffs, it remained at just 5.7 percent.
Certainly, the decline was no mirage. With the economy growing quickly, businesses needed to woo people into the labor force or out of another job, and they offered the first significant raises in 30 years. Income inequality, the poverty rate and the gap between the wages of whites and minorities all fell.
"You had employers chasing workers," said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group in Washington. "People who were seeking work found it." 
Some of the biggest beneficiaries were women, who poured into the job market and whose wages crept closer to men's. Today, 63 million women hold a job, up almost 9 million from a decade ago, according to the Labor Department. 
But even the strong economy of the late 90's failed to reverse the gradual overall increase in the number of men dropping out of the labor force. It also could not halt the long-term rise in the duration of unemployment for those people who kept looking for work and therefore appeared in the official statistics. 
Many of these workers have now been out of the job market for long enough that they may never come back. If they do, they are almost certain to make much less than they once did, economists say. 
"People used to drift in and out of the labor force," said Mr. Topel, whose co-authors were Chinhui Juhn at the University of Houston and Kevin M. Murphy at Chicago. "Now, leaving the labor force is more like death -- you leave and you don't come back."
A clear sign of the labor market's quiet troubles has long been evident, though its significance was obscured by the official jobless rate. While unemployment was supposedly falling over the last 20 years, pay barely increased for the typical worker. Since 1982, the median hourly wage has grown only about 6 percent, after adjusting for inflation, according to the Labor Department. 
Reflecting workers' meager bargaining power, the Census Bureau said last week that income for the typical household had fallen in 2001 for the second consecutive year. The poverty rate rose.
With scant reason to think that the economy will grow rapidly in the next couple of years, the labor market's woes present a serious challenge for government.
The country can cut benefits at a time when joblessness is rising and leave relatively unskilled workers to fend for themselves. Or it can maintain and expand a safety net that is already larger than many people had thought, possibly giving more discouraged workers reason to depend on a government check.
LAST week, a mostly Democratic group of senators introduced a bill that would extend unemployment benefits to the same length as in the recession of the early 90's. As for the disability program, even without any legislative changes its costs will rise 15 percent to $69 billion this year, according to the Social Security Administration. Containing those costs would require cracking down on people with bad backs or carpel-tunnel syndrome and few good job prospects.
"Everyone would admit that there are lots and lots of people we really want to help," said Kevin A. Hassett, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, a Washington group that often argues for free-market policies, of disabled workers. "So you're not going to have a five-years-and-out rule." 
Instead, the country faces a series of difficult decisions balancing the ideals of a free market with those of a humane economic policy. Only a few years ago, compromises did not seem necessary.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tourists join the 1930's breadline at the Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial in Washington. More people are unemployed today than the official rate shows. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 1); (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 4) Chart: "You're not unemployed . . . "The unemployment rate provides only a limited view of the nonworking population. Graph tracks United States unemployment rate from 1970 through Aug. 2002. . . . even if you're disabled . . .The growing number of American workers receiving disability payments is not generally included in unemployment figures. Graph tracks workers receiving disability payments, measured in millions, from 1975 to 2000. . . . or locked behind barsNeither are those serving time. Graph tracks number of prison and jail inmates, measured in millions, from 1910 to 1999. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Social Security Administration; Justice Policy Institute)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); FOOD STAMPS (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); DISABILITY INSURANCE (50%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WAGES AND SALARIES; BLUE COLLAR WORKERS; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



784 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY; 
Fund Yields Keep Shrinking

BYLINE:  Compiled by Jeff Sommer 

 BODY:
The skimpy yields of money market accounts shrank further last week -- and one fund barely paid any interest at all -- according to iMoneyNet, which tracks the market.
 The agency, based in Westborough, Mass., said the average seven-day simple yield on taxable funds fell to 1.23 percent for the week ended on Tuesday from 1.24 percent a week earlier, setting another record low. 
 In addition, Peter Crane, iMoneyNet's vice president and managing editor, said that the yield of "service class" shares of the ProFunds/Money Market fund, which are usually sold through brokers and financial advisers, had fallen to 0.01 percent. The fund's high expenses accounted for its minuscule yield, he said, which would have dropped into negative territory if the fund's management had not decided to waive some fees. 
No money market fund has ever had a negative yield, he said: "You'd be better off holding your money in cash or stuffing it in a mattress, so fund companies haven't allowed that to happen."

GRAPHIC: Graph measures the money market fund returns (monthly average) from 2000-2002. (Source: iMoneyNet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%) STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; MONEY MARKET FUNDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: IMONEYNET 

PERSON: SOMMER, JEFF 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



785 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Smoked Salmon and Lox Swim in Different Worlds; 
An Embattled Hotel Was a Low-Income Haven

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In "Backpackers Leave, Homeless Arrive, Neighbors Fret and Fume" (Sept. 15), about the Malibu Hotel, nowhere did you quote a hotel resident or an advocate for the homeless. 
 The Malibu has long been a hotel where both low-income residents, who might otherwise be homeless, and tourists live side by side. 
To blame homeless people people with HIV/AIDS as the root of businesses failing or crime rising in the neighborhood is wrong. Businesses are failing throughout the city because of the recession, the drop in the stock market, changing priorities since 9/11 and tons of other reasons.
New York should focus on ensuring that people in emergency housing get a chance for permanent accommodations. Many people live for years in deplorable conditions in S.R.O.'s, costing the city at least $1,500 per month per family. The city does little to help people move into permanent housing. In the short term, the city should place caseworkers directly in S.R.O.'s where homeless people live to help them move into permanent housing as quickly as possible.

JENNIFER FLYNN
Executive Director,
NYC AIDS Housing Network

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (93%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (76%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); AIDS & HIV (70%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (68%) HOUSING; HOTELS AND MOTELS; SINGLE-ROOM OCCUPANCY 

ORGANIZATION: MALIBU HOTEL (NYC) 

PERSON: FLYNN, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



786 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
For Teenagers, a Spritz of Eau de Celebrity

BYLINE:  By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN 

 BODY:
Here is something else for parents to ponder. Teenage boys may not only want to look like the Rock, but they may also want to smell like him. 
 In a survey of 4,000 teenage boys and girls by the NPD Group, a market research company, 35 percent of the boys said they would like to see a fragrance marketed by the Rock, the actor and wrestler. Will Smith, the movie star, and Tony Hawk, the skateboarder, were cited by 27 percent. 
Jennifer Lopez was ranked No. 1 by girls, at 29 percent, followed by the singer Pink and the vocal group Destiny's Child. 
 Is there money to be made in selling fragrances to teenagers? Certainly. According to NPD, 46 percent of teenage girls and 29 percent of teenage boys wear fragrances regularly. DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

GRAPHIC: Graphs track the following: TEENAGERS WHO WANT FRAGRANCES BY EACH CELEBRITYAMONG GIRLSJennifer Lopez: 29%Pink: 28%Destiny's Child: 23%Gwen Stefani: 20%Shakira: 18%Sarah Michelle Gellar: 18% AMONG BOYSThe Rock: 35%Tony Hawk: 27%Will Smith: 27%Tiger Woods: 17%Chris Rock: 15%Sean Combs (P. Diddy): 13% SALES OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGESYear-over-year change, weekly from February through Aug. 11 NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSYear-over-year change, weekly March-Sept. MEDICAL COSTSChange in consumer price index Sep. 2001-Aug. 2002 PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSTotals in thousands, weekly form April-Sept. ONLINE SALESDollars in billions, weekly from April-Sept. HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESFour-week moving average, daily from April-Sept. for New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles (Sources: NPD Group celebrity fragrances ; Information Resources alcoholic beverage sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics medical costs ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; HotelRevMAX hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (91%); TEENS MARKET (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (86%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%); RANKINGS (71%); SKATEBOARDING (68%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%) PERFUMES AND FRAGRANCES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (69%); WILL SMITH (69%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (68%); TIGER WOODS (59%); GWEN STEFANI (54%); PINK (52%) MCCLAIN, DYLAN LOEB 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



787 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Growers and Shoppers Crowd Farmers' Markets 

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: STOCKTON, Calif., Sept. 24 

 BODY:
To find chickens that still have a pulse, neon-pink eggplants and tomatoes that have been described as better than sex, the modern hunter-gatherer has to venture under the freeway in downtown Stockton, and get there early to fight off the crowds.
 It would seem a burden to the average grocery buyer to get up at sunrise, bother with parking and jostle elbows for the privilege of biting into a peach picked that morning. But on some days, nearly 10,000 people do just that in a few hours here at the Stockton farmers' market. 
 At a time when eating has become a political statement, and the government is paying up to $19 billion a year to subsidize commodity crops in a glutted global market, one of the fastest-growing trends in the way Americans get their food is the simple farmers' market. 
With no subsidies and no middle men, farmers' markets have increased by 79 percent since 1994, to 3,137 markets in all 50 states, and the number of farmers who sell at them has more than tripled to 67,000, the Agriculture Department will report next week. About three million Americans a week now get their fresh food directly from the farmers who grew it.
These numbers, of course, represent a very thin slice of the big pie of national food. Farmers' markets reported about $1 billion in sales last year, compared with more than $200 billion in overall farm revenue. Barely 3 percent of the nation's two million farmers sell some of what they grow directly to consumers.
But in an era of big-box food stores, when 10 major grocery chains control the purchase of 50 percent of fresh food, the proliferation of open-air markets has come out of nowhere, giving more consumers an option and allowing many small farmers to stay in business.
In fact, while some small farmers say the direct-sale markets provide them just enough money to get by, others have stopped selling to big food wholesalers or relying on subsidies because they can make a better living selling direct to people.
By cutting out the middle man, direct-sale farmers can make 40 to 60 percent more than selling to wholesalers, they say. These farmers relish their independence from both government subsidies and the big grocery chains. 
"Those other farmers, the ones that get the big payments from the government, they're welfare farmers," said Karen Fedrau, who works at six markets a week, selling fruit and vegetables from the farm she runs with her husband in northern California. 
Pam Bosserd, who sells produce grown on 40 acres at her family farm near Battle Creek, Mich., six months out of the year, said she could gross about $200,000 in annual sales on food she grows, picks and sells herself. Many of her buyers are regular customers, who seem as fascinated by the farm itself as they are by Ms. Bosserd's best-selling sweet white corn.
"Most people are so far removed from farming in this country that there's this fascination with the real thing," Ms. Bosserd said. "People want fresh food. They want a piece of fruit or an ear of corn that wasn't picked in Mexico and shipped for two thousand miles."
Just up the highway from here, people line up on the hot pavement of otherwise half-empty mall parking lots to buy odd-shaped, dirt-clumped fresh produce at one of the nine regular farmers' markets in Sacramento. The 327 farmers' markets in California have become so popular that there is a waiting list to join them, the Agriculture Department says. 
New York, with 269 farmers' markets, is second only to California in growth. In Madison, Wis., hundreds of direct-sale vendors ring the capital outdoors. Seattle's venerable Pike Place Market, the oldest in the nation, has been duplicated in a half-dozen regular outdoor markets around the city over the last five years, and is being studied as a model for a market that may rise on the World Trade Center site in lower Manhattan.
But for all the growth, direct selling may never get beyond its newfound niche in the cities. Federal officials say that nearly 40 percent of all farm income now comes directly from government subsidies, and the farm bill signed by President Bush this year will pay $190 billion over 10 years, which includes $83 billion in new spending. A small amount of money was supposed to go into a program promoting farmers' markets, but it was never appropriated.
"Against the billions of dollars in direct subsidies paid for things that we already have too much of, the growth of these small farmers' markets is a perfect example of how government overlooks people that don't have a powerful lobby," said Ken Cook, director of the Environmental Working Group, which studies farm subsidies in Washington. "But maybe the best thing government can do is stay out of the way."
Ms. Fedrau said she used to sell her fruit wholesale to a central market on the East Coast. It had to be picked early, when the fruit was hard, to hold up to the rigors of shipping. 
"We dealt with a broker who set a price, and many times that price was well below what it cost us to grow the fruit," Ms. Fedrau said. "When they send you a bill instead of a check at the end of the growing season, you know you're in trouble."
She now sells all her food directly to people at markets, and makes a good enough living to raise five children and hold onto a 130-acre farm. Every day, she sells from a different market in Northern California.
"Our business will continue to grow as long as people are dissatisfied with what they get at the supermarket," Ms. Fedrau said.
Some experts would temper Ms. Fedrau's optimism. "Right now, green markets are growing faster than anything in agriculture," said Dr. Steven Blank, a farm economist at the University of California at Davis and the author of three books on the subject. "The question is whether consumers in significant numbers will support them. I wouldn't hold my breath."
But last week, a tour of farmers' markets throughout the West Coast found long lines, big crowds and enthusiastic buyers at all the direct-sale stands. Many vendors said they were selling up to $1,000 worth of produce a day. Although the markets are seasonal, usually from April through October, that half year of sales is enough to tide people over.
"Nobody grows a grape like us," said one farmer, Alberto Mora, who said the supermarket wholesalers would never buy his grapes because they are picked ripe, and the bunches are too big.
Even with city dwellers' newfound fascination with small farmers at the urban edge, rural culture is fading. 
"I would love to have one of my children carry on the farm," said Ms. Bosserd, the third-generation farmer from Michigan. "But I don't think it's going to happen. My 12-year-old wants to move to the city and become a plastic surgeon."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peppers from Hoover Ranch in Placerville, Calif., at the market.; Karen Fedrau, of Fedrau Family Farms in Newcastle, Calif., helped Lori Nelson select produce at a farmers' market in Sacramento. (Photographs by John Decker for The New York Times) Chart: "UPDATE: More Markets For Farmers"Since the U.S.D.A. began keeping track in 1994, the number of farmers' markets has risen sharply. Graph tracks the number of farmers' markets since 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); TRENDS (76%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (75%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%); WHOLESALERS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



788 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Rebels Without a War Wait for Help in Angola 

BYLINE:  By HENRI E. CAUVIN 

DATELINE: MAVINGA, Angola 

 BODY:
For the thousands of rebel soldiers encamped in this desolate corner of Angola, the end of the country's long civil war seems certain.
 Little else about their future is. 
 The rebels were settled, after the conflict ended this year, in spartan, often isolated camps like the Matungo quartering area here in the dusty plains of Angola's southeast. They were promised a new beginning and a helping hand in returning to the civilian lives that many of them hardly knew.
Across the country, they are still waiting, they say, for the tools, the mattresses and the seeds that were pledged, along with jobs for several thousand of them and job training for the rest. 
"People are actually a little bit worried," said Elias Chamisa, 45, a soldier for the rebel group, the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, or Unita, who lives in Matungo. "Of course there was a war in our country and we understand the government cannot solve all our problems, but there are many things the government promised."
Here in Mavinga, the troubles are acute. A sprawling but sparsely populated municipality, it is infested with land mines. Until the end of the war, it was largely cut off from aid.
Since the cease-fire in early April, the area around the tiny municipal seat has been swamped by hungry and sick people. They have come, along with the soldiers and their families, by the tens of thousands from around the region in search of food and medical care.
The assistance, much of it through the aid agencies of the United Nations, is coming, but not fast enough to cope with the influx of people, aid officials concede.
With each day that passes, the soldiers' frustration builds, and with it, the anxieties of a country in which previous peace accords collapsed into brutal fighting. Most recently, in the late 1990's, the quartering areas ended up as staging grounds for the rebels' return to armed conflict.
Certainly no one talks of a resumption of the 27-year war, which sputtered to an end barely a month after Jonas Savimbi, the only leader the rebels ever knew, was killed in an ambush by government commandos. The rebel group -- supported during the cold war by the United States and South Africa -- was barely standing when surviving commanders signed a peace accord on April 4.
But even if the rebel group is no longer a military threat, the fate of its people is a crucial factor for the stability of postwar Angola. 
A country rich in oil and an increasingly important source of energy for the United States, Angola was a Portuguese colony for decades. In the 1960's and early 1970's, rival liberation movements battled Portugal -- and each other -- for control of the country, sowing the seeds for the war that would follow.
When independence finally came in 1975, the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola seized control before Unita could, installing a Marxist government that was allied with the Soviet Union until the end of the cold war.
Unita's subsequent struggle against the Marxist government was driven by many things but rooted in the belief that the country's largest ethnic group, the Ovimbundu, had been marginalized by the capital's commercial, intellectual and, often lighter-skinned, elite. 
Now, even as more than 80,000 Unita soldiers sit largely empty-handed, the government is insisting that it will close the camps on schedule, on Oct. 15, in keeping with a timetable that the United Nations believes may be too ambitious.
Along with millions of people who were displaced by the war and are now being encouraged to return to their villages, the demobilized soldiers and their families are to be sent away when the camps close.
Whether that will actually happen is unclear. The United Nations says that while it, too, wants people to go home and live normal lives, it is doubtful the people will be able to manage so soon after the war, particularly with international relief operations taxed and the national infrastructure largely destroyed.
Differences of opinion between the United Nations and the Angolan government are not new. Angola's leaders blamed the United Nations for the rebel group's return to war in the late 1990's, contending that ineptitude by United Nations officials in charge of demobilization camps allowed the rebels to rearm.
This time around, the government has asserted far more control over the demobilization process, and now it is trying to ward off a major United Nations role in shaping the postwar political process, particularly on questions of human rights, elections and corruption.
Ibrahim A. Gambari, the United Nations under secretary general who is the newly appointed special representative to Angola and the chairman of the commission overseeing the final stage of the peace arrangements, said the United Nations should have a role in helping the country toward peace, given the major role that its agencies play in providing aid to people here. 
"I think it's a good thing that the Angolans want to take control of their affairs as soon as possible, but authority and control come with responsibility," Mr. Gambari said. "What the U.N. is saying is, "Let's work together to help you fulfill those responsibilities.' "
The Angolan armed forces, which are playing a central role in the demobilization process, repeatedly deferred requests for comment.
But if the former rebels conclude that the government is acting in bad faith now, they could become an unpredictable political element in a society that is trying to find its way out of decades of authoritarian rule.
"The soldiers are not going back to war if they don't get food, but it's a humanitarian problem and it could become a political problem if the demobilized soldiers don't get options," the departing Norwegian ambassador to Angola, Bjorg Leite, said as she toured the camp here. "I saw the same thing in Mozambique. They feel lost. They feel forgotten."
Already, the World Food Program had to step in earlier this month and begin distributing food to rebel soldiers, who were supposed to be fed by the government until the closing of the quartering areas.
"We saw that -- there's no other way to put it -- the government wasn't fulfilling its commitments," said Francisco Roque Castro, the program's director for Angola.
Soldiers had been sharing the rations provided to their wives and children by the World Food Program in neighboring camps. The result was that no one was receiving as much food as they should have been, and the people began "to get restless," Mr. Roque Castro said.
Far from easing the strain on the World Food Program, the end of the war has increased the number of people it is feeding. Along with the Unita soldiers and their families, desperately hungry people are emerging by the thousands from pockets of the country that have been cut off from aid. By the end of the year, the agency expects to be feeding nearly two million people, up from barely a million at the beginning of this year.
At another camp, in the central province of Bie, soldiers welcomed the new food rations but spoke of the uncertainty that accompanies their lives now.
"I don't know when I'm going to be demobilized," said Sebastiao Chiwisse, 28, who had been fighting for the rebels since 1985. "After being demobilized, I really want support, some assistance to support me in the first stage of being a civilian. We need some training to enter tomorrow's life."
Paulo Lukamba, a top Unita general and now the movement's political leader, said the government was trying to make peace without paying the price. "The government wants a cheap peace, but there isn't a cheap peace," he said.
The government can integrate the rebel soldiers only by overhauling the country's economy and creating new jobs, Mr. Lukamba said. Furthermore, he said, the country will find the prosperity that should accompany peace only by finding a place for those men.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A former Unita rebel recovers at a makeshift hospital in Angola.; Former rebels and their families registered recently at a resettlement camp in N'dele, Angola. Aid agencies are overwhelmed by the demand for food and medical care, but the government wants to close the camps. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times) Map of Angola highlighting Mavinga: Thousands of rebels have lived in Mavinga since the civil war's end.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); LANDMINES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); TRENDS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FOOD; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) NATIONAL UNION FOR THE TOTAL INDEPENDENCE OF ANGOLA (UNITA); UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: CAUVIN, HENRI E 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANGOLA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); PORTUGAL (92%) ANGOLA; MAVINGA (ANGOLA)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



789 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: More in High School Are Virgins, Study Finds 

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Over the past decade, the percentage of high school students who say they are virgins has risen significantly, according to a report published on Friday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
 Last year, the report found, high school virgins outnumbered those who had engaged in sexual intercourse, 54 percent to 46 percent. A decade earlier, the percentages were the opposite. 
 The study, based on self-reported data from more than 10,000 high school students, also found other evidence of more conservative sexual behavior. 
Among sexually active students, 57.9 percent said they had used condoms when they last had intercourse, up from 46.2 percent a decade earlier. There was also a decline in the percentage of high school students who had had four or more sex partners, with 14.2 percent reporting such experience in 2001, compared with 18.7 percent in 1991. 
"We have less kids at risk than we used to have, given this combination of factors all working together -- fewer kids having sex, fewer having multiple partners and more using condoms," said Laura Kann, one of the authors of the report. "It's still too many, but what's especially encouraging is that these trends are pretty strong, and all the subgroups, by gender, grade or race, however you want to look at it, are all consistently heading in the right direction." 
Most experts say the decline in sexual activity can be attributed to a combination of factors, from abstinence programs and fear of AIDS to an increase in oral sex, which many teenagers regard as both less dangerous and less intimate than intercourse. The experts also say that over a decade of good economic times, teenagers may have felt that they faced good futures that might be derailed by an unwanted pregnancy. 
"The increase in contraceptive use is the strongest trend we're seeing," said David Landry, a senior research associate at the Alan Guttmacher Institute, a nonprofit group focused on sexual and reproductive health issues. "It's very complicated to try to sort out the different factors that might be driving these trends, but what's encouraging is that adolescents are getting the dual message about abstinence and using condoms." 
While there is always some doubt about the accuracy of self-reports on sexual activity, experts in the field say the findings are bolstered by the fact that adolescent pregnancy and birth rates have also been declining. 
A separate study on adolescent sexual behavior, released last week by Child Trends, a nonprofit research group in Washington, challenged the popular belief that most teenagers lose their virginity in the after school hours, in the back seat of a car, in a motel or in a park. 
In fact, the Child Trends study reported, 70 percent of sexually experienced teenagers first had intercourse after 6 p.m., and most often in their own family home or that of their partner. According to the study, based on data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth, only 14 percent said their first sex had been in a car, truck, hotel, motel, outdoor place or their own dormitory room.
"No one had ever asked the question before, but there's been this stereotype, this myth that it happens after school, when the parents are working and the kids aren't supervised," said Kristin Moore, president of Child Trends. "We thought it was important to have factual evidence, because it does change your thinking. If it's at night, when parents are home, you have to think about parents doing more active supervision. 
"Studies have found that only half the parents of kids who had sexual intercourse were aware of it," Ms. Moore said. "Parents need to be more open to the possibility that kids are more sexually active than they would like to believe, and to monitor more and communicate more." 
Along with the positive findings, the new analysis from the disease control agency identified an area of growing concern: an increase in the number of teenagers who use drugs or alcohol before having sex.
According to the study, 25.6 percent of sexually active students used drugs or alcohol before their last intercourse, an increase from 21.6 percent in 1991. 
"This finding emphasizes the link between drug and alcohol use and sexual behavior," said Ms. Kann, adding that it indicated a need for renewed efforts to prevent substance abuse, as a means of preventing pregnancy and AIDS. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); TRENDS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (85%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (77%); AIDS & HIV (73%); WRITERS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



790 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: You Should Have Seen the Air in '53; 
After Sept. 11, Considering History's Lessons on Pollution

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
A dry, wheezing, watery-eyed cough became common. The number of emergency room visits climbed, and the theaters in Times Square went dark for lack of business. Smoke and haze drifted across the region.
 Lower Manhattan after Sept. 11? No. It was November 1953, in the middle of a six-day siege of air pollution that fouled the region with a ferocity unimaginable by the standards of today's far cleaner air. Through one bad week, a stagnant stew of soot and lead and who knows what else killed or hastened the death of 25 or 30 New Yorkers a day, according to an analysis conducted years later. 
 Many people have probably forgotten how bad the good old days really were. But some historians, environmentalists and public health experts say that in thinking about Sept. 11 -- and the broad consequences that are emerging for public health, government regulation and the science of air pollution monitoring -- turning back the clock can be a revealing exercise. 
November 1953 was a very important moment, in part -- and here's where the apt comparison to Sept. 11 comes in, the experts say -- because it illuminated in full fumbling glory how little science knew. Air researchers in those days were not even sure what to call the stuff that had descended on the city, let alone what health impact it had. (They tried the word "smaze," to describe the combination of smoke and haze, but it never caught on; smog had more punch.)
But within a generation of those first smog crises in New York and Los Angeles, the federal Clean Air Act had encoded into law not only the standards about what was safe to breathe, but how government could enforce the rules on the public's behalf.
Similarly, scientists after Sept. 11 have come up with a huge array of evidence suggesting that most residents of Lower Manhattan who were not directly involved in the rescue or recovery work at ground zero have little reason for long-term concern about their health. But the same doctors and researchers have been forced to acknowledge that because Sept. 11 was so starkly different from any past event, their reassurances are approximate, based on standards and comparisons that do not provide an exact fit.
Most of the horrors of New York's environmental past, they say, like the grim air episodes in 1953, 1962 and 1966, were chronic and cumulative. Sept. 11 was sharp and sudden, but for most residents at least, relatively brief. Most past events had a thousand sources and causes -- a vague diffusion of responsibility that made no one responsible. Sept. 11 had one source and one cause: the smoking, reeking, dust-blown ruins of the World Trade Center.
"There are chronic disasters that dwarf 9/11, but this is the largest acute environmental disaster to ever befall New York City," said Dr. Philip J. Landrigan, chairman of the department of community and preventive medicine at Mount Sinai in Manhattan.
Dr. Landrigan and other experts say that because most pollution research has focused on chronic day-after-day exposure, hard knowledge about the health consequences of intense brief pollution encounters is a hole in the medical library. Before Sept. 11, it never really came up. He and other experts stress, however, that the anecdotal evidence is very strong for things like asbestos that brief exposures hardly ever result in disease, and that, judging by air test results, most residents were probably only minimally exposed, if at all. 
But the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Christie Whitman, told a Senate committee this week that her agency was still, a year later, trying to come up with indoor residential air quality standards so that contractors who began testing apartments in Lower Manhattan this month could know how to interpret what they found. 
The pattern, public health historians say, is unmistakable -- watch for those moments when knowledge hits the wall, then stand back. Things will change. 
"We are constantly building worlds that end up being dangerous, and all the turning points in public health are the times when we realize that," said David Rosner, a professor of history and public health at Columbia University. "This is one of those moments."
Just this week, for example, state environmental regulators in New York announced that the construction vehicles involved in rebuilding Lower Manhattan would be retrofitted to burn low sulfur diesel fuel to reduce air emissions. The idea, which had been pushed for months by groups like Environmental Defense and the American Lung Association, arose in part from a scientific fumble last fall by researchers who attributed some high pollution levels downtown to the smoldering ruins at the trade center. Reworking through the data, they found that the ordinary diesel trucks idling in the street waiting to haul away the debris were the real cause.
But not just science hit a bumpy patch after Sept. 11. Many Lower Manhattan residents have simply refused to believe the results from the hundreds of thousands of air samples that were taken in the months after the attack. The vast majority of the tests showed that even as close as a few blocks from ground zero and within a few days of the attack, things like asbestos were barely detectable.
One resident of Little Italy who came to a public hearing earlier this month at Borough of Manhattan Community College to listen to the medical community talk about the disaster's aftermath cheerfully said she did not believe a word of it. The doctors, she said, had been corrupted by pressure from property owners who feared a collapse in real estate values. And so another wall emerged, and perhaps another cycle of history: If the air pollution victims in 1953 were in the dark because they couldn't know, some Manhattan residents now are perhaps just as in the dark because of what they cannot accept.
Some environmentalists say that people are right to disbelieve -- not because science failed them, but because government officials did in communicating what scientists did not and could not know.
"The public would have understood the inability to answer health questions with certainty if it had been openly and fully discussed," said Eric A. Goldstein, a senior lawyer at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a New York-based conservation group. "But the response after Sept. 11 was more of the Soviet style, to deny there was a problem."
Mr. Goldstein said that he definitely saw a wave of environmental reforms emerging from the disaster. A crucial one that his group will work for is to make sure that independent scientists are included from the beginning in the assessment of any future disasters -- not because government scientists will lie or are incompetent, he said, but because their conclusions will not matter if no one believes them.
Other researchers say that broad shifts in how society thinks about the environment are unlikely to emerge from one event -- even one of the magnitude of Sept. 11. The beginnings of the environmental movement in the 1960's and 1970's, they say, were tied to a whole raft of forces, as was the general decline of the issue as a social and political force in the 1980's and 1990's.
"Generally during times of wealth and security, environmental concerns tend to drop," said Michael D. Mehta, an associate professor of sociology at the University of Saskatchewan in Canada who studies environmental attitudes. 
Wealth and security are hardly the words that most people would use to describe the world after Sept. 11, and Professor Mehta thinks the end of the 1990's culture -- in lifestyles and economics -- and the awakened connections between the environment and public health that have emerged after Sept. 11 in New York will eventually mark a turning point.
"I don't think it's quite arrived yet," he said. "But Sept. 11 contains the seed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Manhattan, engulfed in smog in November 1966. Past pollution crises led to new clean-air standards and enforcement. (Neal Boenzi/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); SMOG (89%); SMOKING (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (76%); HIJACKING (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (76%); HISTORY (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); POLLUTION MONITORING (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%) AIR POLLUTION; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SMOG; TERRORISM 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



791 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: As Security Cameras Sprout, Someone's Always Watching 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY 

DATELINE: PORTERVILLE, Calif., Sept. 27 

 BODY:
This is the kind of place, small and out of the way, where people keep count of things taken for granted elsewhere.
 Three McDonald's restaurants, including the one in the Wal-Mart. One Starbucks, new. Nine screens at the Galaxy theater. Seventy-three jobs at Mervyn's department store. 
 But even in this town, pushed against the parched foothills of the Sierra Nevada, where oranges and dairy cows seem as plentiful as people, at least one big-city item creates little excitement. 
"Surveillance cameras?" asked Donnette Carter of the Porterville Chamber of Commerce. "Offhand, I couldn't tell you."
With the recent arrest of a woman in Indiana whom a security camera videotaped beating her daughter in a parking lot, the presence of electronic eyes across America has drawn new attention.
But what security and privacy specialists have long known might surprise people in towns like this: the surveillance equipment is everywhere, not just in big cities and at obvious places like Times Square or outside the White House, but also in Porterville and Mishawaka, Ind., and hundreds of other places.
More often than not, private rather than public hands are controlling the lenses, as was the case in Indiana. 
"There is the very deep notion of private property in our culture, that if you own it, you can do what you want with it," said William G. Staples, a University of Kansas sociology professor who has written two books about surveillance. "That has contributed to the proliferation of surveillance cameras on the private side. It is only since Sept. 11 that the public side has been catching up with what the private sector has been doing for a long time."
There has been much discussion since Sept. 11 of the growing role of government as Big Brother, with law enforcement agencies turning to tools like face-recognition technology at airports and closed-circuit television systems in public buildings. But Professor Staples and other surveillance experts suggest the general debate should include "Tiny Brothers," a term he and others use to describe the many private security cameras that most people quietly tolerate or do not think about.
Tiny Brothers might be less known, but they disturb people who worry about civil liberties.
"I don't know if we want to uncover everything that goes on," Professor Staples said. "The cameras function as a net-widening effect, catching all kinds of activities they may not have been intended to catch. Those cameras in the parking lot could zoom over someone in a romantic tryst in a car. Do we really want to know all of this?"
The Security Industry Association estimates that at least two million closed-circuit television systems are in the United States. A survey of Manhattan in 1998 by the American Civil Liberties Union found 2,397 cameras fixed on places where people pass or gather, like stores and sidewalks. All but 270 were operated by private entities, the organization reported. CCS International, a company that provides security and monitoring services, calculated last year that the average person was recorded 73 to 75 times a day in New York City.
"We went out and counted every camera we could find," said Arielle Jamil, a company spokeswoman. "Some have dummy cameras, but the real one is looking at you from a different direction."
Here in Porterville, four cameras are mounted above the entrance to Wal-Mart. Mervyn's has one outside and one inside its front door. Some dangle above the tellers in banks on Olive Avenue, and others capture images of visitors and patients strolling the halls at Sierra View District Hospital. The town's biggest employer, the Wal-Mart Distribution Center, has cameras perched like pigeons on its warehouses.
The list goes on, and it is growing. For about a year, Tom Barcellos, a dairy farmer, has had them watching his employees in a milking parlor on the outskirts of town. A few months ago he turned to the videotapes to resolve a dispute that had ended in a shoving match between two employees. Pleased with the result, Mr. Barcellos is adding cameras to monitor what goes on outdoors on his farm, which has about 800 cows.
"It is more or less a precautionary thing, something to fall back on," he said. "I understand the arguments against them, but I don't worry because I am not doing anything wrong. I consider it security. The people with the biggest problem seem to have a guilty conscience and have something to hide."
This summer, the Sierra View hospital added cameras to cover a parking garage for doctors and employees. The system is connected to a computer, which a security official can use to focus the lenses to show the faces of people inside cars. Across town, school officials were so upset when the new Burton Middle School was covered with graffiti before it opened that they decided to install four surveillance cameras on the grounds.
"There is a great increase everywhere," said Ronald L. Irish, vice president of S.T.O.P. Alarm, a Porterville security company hired to install the school's cameras. "I even get calls about two or three times a month from people wanting to put cameras around their homes."
One of the nation's biggest suppliers of video security equipment, Pelco, is based just north of here in Clovis, Calif. Company officials said commercial uses for the equipment far outnumbered public uses, even with new concerns about terrorism.
Dave Smith, Pelco's vice president for marketing, said many companies were still evaluating their needs after Sept. 11, so an expected surge in sales had not yet occurred.
Even so, a market research firm in Connecticut that specializes in security, the J. P, Freeman Company, estimates that the digital video surveillance market is growing 15 percent a year, about four times as fast as the security industry as a whole, as companies seek better surveillance systems and images.
"That growth is quite remarkable against the soft economy," said Joe P. Freeman, the company's chief executive. "In the end, a picture is worth a thousand words. All other forms of security provide you with data, not pictures. People want images stored in a huge storage file so that if anything is discovered later they can go back and see what happened."
Law enforcement officials almost everywhere have encouraged the trend. Videotaped images generally strengthen criminal cases and take a big load off the investigators trying to piece together a crime.
In some cases, trade organizations have also become involved. 
Michael Marsh, the chief executive of the Western United Dairymen, said his group had recommended surveillance equipment to help deter animal rights extremists and more recently to cope with threats of bioterrorism. Private security officials in gambling towns, like Reno, Nev., informally share data from cameras mounted outside casinos. Wayne Harvey, chairman of the Reno-Sparks Security Directors Association, said new cameras were constantly being added in areas not related to gambling. 
"The surveillance systems are just as important in the back of the house," Mr. Harvey said. "There is talk of getting Big Brother, but it is a necessary evil in this day and time."
Mr. Staples, the Kansas professor, said public attitudes about the cameras had changed and tended to be generational. When he speaks about his research to older audiences, he said, he inevitably hears cries of outrage and complaints about the infringement of civil liberties. Younger audiences, like a high school philosophy class he addressed recently, are far more accepting, having grown up with images of Rodney King being beaten by Los Angeles officers and reality television shows, like "Big Brother," that extol camera-driven voyeurism.
The Sept. 11 attacks might also have created a sense that it is unpatriotic to oppose surveillance. In Quincy, Calif., a tiny mountain town in rural Plumas County, a three-term county supervisor is facing a recall by his constituents because of his stance on surveillance cameras. The supervisor, Robert A. Meacher, unplugged some surveillance equipment set up by the sheriff's department at a music festival last July. It was apparently intended to monitor drug sales.
Mr. Meacher has since apologized for having used some extreme language in criticizing the sheriff's department's tactics, and he said he might not have opposed the equipment if someone had told him about it in advance. Nonetheless, the recall petition accuses him of being against law enforcement, and many people in the sheriff's department are still angry with him.
"The very fact that you raise a question makes you suspect, makes you anti-American," Mr. Meacher said. "It's, 'Whose side are you on?' It shouldn't be like that. I can't help but think of the Buffalo Springfield song: 'Step out of line, and the man comes and takes you away.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: A video camera at a security firm keeps track of skateboarders outside a shop next door in Porterville, Calif., a town of around 40,000 about 45 miles north of Bakersfield, Calif. Such surveillance has become common. (Gary Kazanjian for The New York Times)(pg. 33) Chart/Diagram: "A CLOSER LOOK: You Really Are Being Watched"Times Square visitors are not likely to have a huge expectation of privacy, and a 60-minute walk through the neighborhood might confirm their intuition. Careful scrutiny reveals scores of cameras; most are on private property but have a keen view of passers-by. Diagram of Times Square highlighting locations of cameras. (pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); BIOMETRICS (69%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (64%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (50%) SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (82%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (59%) SECURITY INDUSTRY ASSN; AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION; CSS INTERNATIONAL; UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS 

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%)

PERSON: MURPHY, DEAN E; STAPLES, WILLIAM G (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) TIMES SQUARE AND 42ND STREET (NYC); PORTERVILLE (CALIF); MISHAWAKA (IND)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



792 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2744 words

HEADLINE: In Trenches of a War on Unyielding Poverty 

BYLINE:  By JOHN W. FOUNTAIN 

 BODY:
Late one afternoon, LeeArius Daniels, a 6-year-old boy with string-bean legs, squirmed on a dingy sofa near his front door.
 "I'm hungryyyyy," he moaned, his eyes wet with tears. 
 His mother, LaCheir Daniels, who sat nearby on the stoop of their wood-frame home in Pembroke Township, Ill., plaiting her eldest daughter's hair, did not answer. Her eyes were fixed toward the ground, her lips taut and silent.
The cupboards were bare. The food stamps were exhausted, the staples from the local food pantry depleted. Ms. Daniels, a single mother of five children, was down to that time at the end of the month when the sun rises and sets on her incessant worry: What will we eat tomorrow? 
The Danielses are among 32.9 million Americans -- 11.7 million of them under 18 -- who live in poverty, while untold others teeter on its edge. After the economic boom of the 1990's, the poverty rate fell slightly, even as the nation increasingly moved from welfare to work.
But now the number of Americans in poverty has risen again, for the first time in eight years, according to census figures reported last week. The gap between rich and poor is growing. The Census Bureau's report showed that the weakening economy had begun to affect large segments of the population, whatever their race, region or class.
For the largely black population of Pembroke, the report was a reflection of the problems here. Yet it was also a collection of dry numbers that do not fully convey how entrenched poverty can be in places where the escape routes to a better life are blocked -- by the lack of transportation, jobs and child care, by geographic isolation, by hopelessness.
Such is life in Pembroke, a hamlet an hour's drive south of Chicago where some still live in crumbling shacks with caked-dirt floors and no running water. 
There are half a dozen liquor stores and scores of churches. But there is no bank. No supermarket. No police force. No barbershop. No gas station. No pharmacy.
For decades, people have searched for a prescription for poverty in Pembroke. For most people here, there is only the hope for healing.
In Pembroke, healing poverty is both a natural and spiritual undertaking for Dr. Rodney Alford and the Rev. Jon Dyson. They are poverty doctors. One is in the business of healing bodies; the other, souls -- though the preacher often must also help mend houses and fill stomachs before tending to matters of the spirit.
On the front line in Pembroke, the war on poverty is less about government intervention than it is a call for commitment, community and compassion. 
Dr. Alford, a tall man with a short Afro, runs the clinic on Main Street, the only one for miles around. Mr. Dyson, a stout man with a goatee and a shiny shaved head, runs the local food pantry and makes house calls.
Statistically, Pembroke is among the poorest areas in the country, once mentioned in the same breath with Tunica County, Miss., which once was considered the poorest county in the nation until it introduced casino gambling a decade ago. In 1999, more than half the families with children under 5 were below the poverty level. Last year, unemployment was more than five times the rate for the state. In the Pembroke Consolidated School District, 98 percent of students are so poor they qualify for free lunch. In 1999, average per capita income was $9,642, compared with $21,587 nationally and $23,104 statewide. 
Pembroke, in Kankakee County, has suffered neglect for decades. But last week Gov. George Ryan returned to his home county, Kankakee, to break ground on a $100 million women's prison in Pembroke that will mean hundreds of construction jobs and nearly 800 prison jobs when it begins operating in three years. While many here applaud the prison coming to Pembroke, some wonder how many of the jobs will go to local residents, and say that ultimately a prison will not bring prosperity or solve their problems, which run deep.
There is no natural gas pipeline, and mostly sand and gravel roads. Many still rely on well water in Pembroke, which officially has 2,784 residents, more than 90 percent of them black.
But Dr. Alford and Mr. Dyson contend that according to their records, there are at least another 2,000 people living at the end of gravel roads or in the woods, where census takers never go.
It was Dr. Alford who allowed Mr. Dyson to convert the tiny white building behind the clinic, once a nurse's office, into a food pantry. It is but one branch of the preacher's ministry. Mr. Dyson, 53, also works with a group of Christian volunteers who in the summer help fortify the aged wood-frame homes and flimsy trailers against the brutal wind and cold that whips across Illinois in winter. Though the sun was shining as Mr. Dyson made his house calls, there was a sense of urgency -- the sense that winter would soon be calling again.

'You Can't Be Weak'
The car wheels rolled over sandy washboard-ridged roads on a muggy afternoon. The sun was depressingly hot. As Mr. Dyson rumbled along, he could see crippled abandoned cars, tires atop houses. The tires keep roofs from sailing away in the wind. In the dead of winter, when the wood has run out, some around here are known to burn tires to keep warm.
"Hello, anybody home?" Mr. Dyson asked, standing at the door of the narrow beige and brown frame house.
Finally, a man with beads of sweat on his forehead answered. Calvin Murrell is his name. A Vietnam veteran, Mr. Murrell, 54, had weeks earlier lost his job as a truck driver after 10 years. He had no money to fix his crumbling ceiling, which he temporarily bandaged with tape and clear plastic. A member of another church in Pembroke, Mr. Murrell sent word to Mr. Dyson that he needed help.
Mildewed and moist, the ceiling sagged. The air was hot and dry. The windows were sealed with tape and plastic. Not wanting the inconvenience and expense of removing his winter covering for a few months, Mr. Murrell was content to sweat it out. 
"Have you had any problems with vermin getting in?" Mr. Dyson asked.
"Oh, mice?" replied Mr. Murrell.
"Mice or ----"
"Oh yeah, they come in. It's hard to keep them jokers out."
"What about your electricity and your plumbing?"
"O.K., my plumbing is bad," Mr. Murrell answered. But that he can live with.
"The main thing I want is that roof. The floor is awful. The floor is just . . ." He paused. "I need another floor."
Mr. Dyson promised to return with an engineer in a few days. The grateful man mustered half a smile and many thanks. The preacher pressed on. 
"You can't be weak and live out here," Mr. Dyson said, once again on the move. "We spend a lot of time building people up, people who have been kicked down and who have been beat down and oppressed by the lack of government services or supportive services to meet their needs here. But they've also been oppressed by their own minds and their own attitudes."
When a Chicago philanthropist built six houses for the poor in Pembroke about three years ago, Mr. Dyson pleaded with him, futilely, to make the residents undergo counseling before allowing them to move in.
So Mr. Dyson was not surprised when about a year after an elderly woman had moved into one of the new modular homes, she trudged back to her old place to be with her husband, who had flat-out refused to leave their crumbling house. Nor was Mr. Dyson surprised to find the old man already stacking wood for winter.
But Mr. Dyson is not without his own critics, who contend that his handouts only enable the poor and foster a spirit of complacency, if not poverty.
Mr. Dyson said that was not the case -- that he was offering a hand up, not a handout.
The preacher and his wife, Lisa, 42, have been pastors of the Church of the Cross since 1992. They moved with their three children to Pembroke from Kankakee in 1999. The church at the mouth of town, with its towering, lighted white cross, was built more than 10 years ago by a local elderly couple who believed that hope was the cure for Pembroke.
Now, three years later, in a struggling church with only a modest membership, Mr. Dyson confesses that he is not sure how much impact he can have, or how much longer he can last.
"If the good Lord blesses, I'm going to be here," he said.

'I Had Kind of a Calling'
Dr. Alford's van rolls into town twice a week: Tuesdays by 2 p.m., Thursdays by 9 a.m. The 44-year-old doctor lives squarely between Kankakee and Pembroke. He came here in 1986, aiming to help heal the land, knowing that doctors can be a line of defense against abuse, detect malnutrition, give prescriptions and at least help diminish the effects of poverty.
A graduate of Loyola University Medical School, he had just completed his residency at Cook County Hospital in Chicago. In exchange for a scholarship from the National Health Service Corps, he had agreed to work two years in one of the agency's designated underserved communities. The choice came down to Tunica County or Pembroke. Back then, Pembroke had no full-time physician. Dr. Alford wanted to stay close to his Chicago roots.
What began as a two-year commitment turned into 16 years.
"Pembroke kind of grew on me, and I realized I had kind of a calling to be there," Dr. Alford said.
On a sunny Tuesday, the doctor's brown hands gently helped an elderly woman with salt-and-pepper hair onto his examination table.
"No ankle swelling or anything like that?" asked Dr. Alford, in an ivory lab coat and stethoscope. 
"No," said Henrietta Thigpen, 76.
"Well," she said on second thought. "I went away on a trip and it swole."
"It's not real bad," Dr. Alford said. "But it's definitely some swelling here."
A little swelling, a bad back, scrapes, scratches, blood pressure monitoring and routine checkups -- this is Dr. Alford's business now. As the new doctor in town in 1986, he says, he inherited "a horrible infant mortality rate," patients suffering ailments common to poor blacks -- diabetes, hypertension, heart disease and "a lot of end-stage diseases." 
"A lot of this was just because there had not been a stable presence in the area for any time and the transportation issue has always plagued the area," he explained.
Despite his success in improving the quality of health care here, Dr. Alford has come to understand that he cannot save everyone. For myriad reasons, people like the Danielses never make it to the clinic.
A few years ago, Dr. Alford was set to take an offer in California to head a large practice. But people in Pembroke and Kankakee, where he also practices, got together and prayed and pleaded with him to reconsider. The doctor was so moved that he decided to stay.
"This is my ministry," said Dr. Alford, who is married and has four children. "This is where I was supposed to do what God sent me here to do."

'Better Than This'
Toward the end of his rounds, Mr. Dyson knocked on LaCheir Daniels's door. There was little more than dust on her kitchen shelves. The pantry run by Mr. Dyson's church, which distributes more than 9,000 pounds of food a month, had already exhausted its supply. The minister was down to bare bones, to a few snacks and promises.
Ms. Daniels was down to bare bones, too. But she has her pride. So she insisted everything was fine, except for maybe the kitchen floor that seemed ready to cave in. Mr. Dyson took note that the water heater was not working, that the plywood covering a kitchen window was leaking daylight, and that plastic, not glass, still covered the other windows with another winter just months away. He promised to return.
The preacher drove away, disturbed, but remarking that Ms. Daniels appeared to be doing better. Last year, she had no water.
A high school dropout, Ms. Daniels, who grew up in Pembroke, has worked sparingly in her 29 years, mostly at temporary factory jobs. Her monthly allotment of food stamps is $450. She receives no cash grant. Under the 1996 welfare overhaul, able-bodied adults must seek employment. She is able-bodied and willing to work, she says. But she has no transportation. No buses or trains run through Pembroke.
She is a round woman with plump cheeks; her voice is heavy, her smile strained. Sometimes when the children lie fast asleep at night, Ms. Daniels lights scented candles, devours another romance novel. She rarely drinks, she says, except for an occasional icy can of Miller Genuine Draft, though she collects old bottles -- whiskey and wine bottles, ornate and simple, bottles of all kinds, which line her dresser top. 
Ms. Daniels's mother, a sister and a brother, who live in Pembroke, help pay her $125-a-month rent. But in the middle of winter, when the propane is dwindling and half the house has been sealed off to conserve heat, she and her children go it alone.
There is LeeArius, a soft-spoken boy. He likes teasing his sisters, exploring the ditch just beyond their stoop with sticks. Fuschia, 8, is outspoken, coffee-brown with black braids sprouting from her head. LaCheir, 4, seems old for her age. She is bossy, a rambunctious girl nicknamed Mama. Thomas, the baby, is 2, quiet, with chubby cheeks. Kealicia, 11, is a slender girl, a Li'l Bow Wow fan. She is bashful, with a sheepish smile. 
Fuschia dreams of becoming a doctor. So do her sisters and LeeArius. They want to "help people" and someday buy a big house, fill their cupboards with cookies and raisins and the refrigerator with chocolate milk. 
"I can't wait till I get out of high school so I can get me a job," Fuschia said one afternoon. "And when I get a job, it's going to be a good one, one I can keep."
Ms. Daniels said she wanted "better than this" for her children, though she was not sure what. She has no answers to the obvious questions about what she could have done to avoid her fate. Why she has five children by four men, for instance, or why these men became ghosts when it came time to buy diapers and milk. Why they have not lived up to their responsibilities, or why, Ms. Daniels said, they quit their jobs whenever the child support people catch up to them. 
Her two youngest children have the same father, a man who lives in Pembroke, but Ms. Daniels said he does not visit the children, even when he calls on friends at the house next door. She said she telephoned him once because Thomas had run out of diapers. Moments after she hung up, the telephone rang. It was the man's current girlfriend. She told Ms. Daniels she had some nerve asking for Pampers and cursed her out.
A few years ago, Ms. Daniels went back to school to get her G.E.D., believing it would give her a better chance and set an example for the children. She said that lately she had been thinking that she needed to go back to church, maybe go to school and maybe even get a degree in child care. 
She wants to do something, she said -- if not for herself, then at least for the children.
"I just look at them and say, 'I got to make it for them,' " Ms. Daniels said. "I just really take it all one day at a time, just to see what the next day going to bring."
LeeArius moaned, but supper was almost ready. The neck bones had browned. Ms. Daniels stood above the stove, pouring the last box of spaghetti into the kettle. Ja Rule and Mary J. Blige blared over the radio. 
Finally, the only meal of the day was ready to be served. 
"That look good," Fuschia said, staring at a steamy plate. "Oh, I want me some."
Ms. Daniels piled the food on the plates, as the children stood frozen in anticipation. She handed them their supper one by one -- a heap of pasta and a meaty bone.
LeeArius sat down on his bed, relishing his meal. Thomas sat on the floor eating; Kealicia on the sofa, where she and Thomas sleep; LaCheir and Fuschia on the bare musty mattresses, where they sleep.
Fuschia kicked off her right shoe and lay across the bed, in heaven with her tasty neck bones and sauceless spaghetti. There was no juice, no milk, no bread, no fruits or vegetables, no dessert. No seconds. And by the time the children had all carried away their plates, no food was left in the pot for their mother.
While the children ate, Ms. Daniels sauntered outside and snagged the clothes from the line strung between two trees.
After supper, the Daniels children smiled and played in the light and shadows of the wooded lot. LeeArius sat on a hobbled Big Wheel, lost in thought. His mother sat on the stoop in the cool of a summer's eve.
"Ma," LeeArius piped up. "Why you don't never cook no ravioli?"
"We don't have any more ravioli," Ms. Daniels explained.
"Ma," LeeArius called again. "Is there any more food in the cabinet?"
There was no answer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Spaghetti and neck bones were a recent dinner for Fuschia Williams, 8, who lives with her mother, her two brothers and her two sisters in Pembroke Township, Ill., one of the poorest areas in the country. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 1); LaCheir Daniels and her children on the porch of their house in Pembroke Township. From left are LaCheir, 4; Kealicia, 11; Fuschia, 8; LeeArius, 6; and Thomas, 2.; Dr. Rodney Alford, who has practiced in Pembroke since 1986, with 9-month-old Quantaya Cunningham and his mother, Faith.; The Rev. Jon Dyson, right, with volunteers who are rebuilding a house in Pembroke Township, Ill. Mr. Dyson has been a pastor of the Church of the Cross there since 1992. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); CHILDREN (76%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (75%); CENSUS (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (61%); RELIGION (61%); POLICE FORCES (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

PERSON: ALFORD, RODNEY (DR); DYSON, JON (REV); FOUNTAIN, JOHN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) PEMBROKE TOWNSHIP (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



793 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Handling of Abuse Complaint Disillusions a Catholic 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD LEZIN JONES 

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN, N.J., Sept. 28 

 BODY:
He broke his silence a decade ago. But when Bob Sheridan told officials at the venerable Delbarton School here that he had been sexually abused by a monk as a teenager, he said, they did not investigate the allegations or report them to church officials.
 Mr. Sheridan stuck by his alma mater, raising money for the school and serving for several years as a lacrosse coach. Last June, when the nation's Roman Catholic bishops enacted a new "zero tolerance" policy toward abuse by priests and promised to comfort victims who came forward in the future, Mr. Sheridan said, he felt it was a new day. 
 But when he approached Delbarton officials in July, asking them to notify the authorities about the abuse and to give him a financial settlement, in part, to help pay for psychological counseling that he said he needed because of the abuse, the response, he said, was anything but comforting. 
He said representatives of the Benedictine order that runs the boys' school questioned the truthfulness of his charges and deflected the request for a settlement, saying it was unreasonable to ask for money from monks who take a vow of poverty.
School officials say that they are investigating the complaint and that Mr. Sheridan may have thought that their effort to verify his allegations was insensitive.
But the experience has left him disillusioned. "No one said to me, 'How can we help you, Bob?' " said Mr. Sheridan, 39. "No one said, 'How can we help you get this guy?' I felt like my own people let me down."
Though the bishops set out clear-cut guidelines for handling abuse allegations with speed and sensitivity, the process can still be difficult and cold, even in a setting as close-knit as the Delbarton School, which has 500 students in grades 7 through 12.
Unlike many Catholics with complaints of abuse by members of the clergy, Mr. Sheridan did not have to face a diocesan bureaucracy. On the other hand, he did have to face a religious order without the dioceses' experience in handling such cases, and with more limited resources to compensate victims. In addition, the religious orders are independent of the dioceses and so are technically exempt from the bishops' new policy, though the orders' umbrella organization agreed in August to recommend similar nonbinding measures.
Delbarton officials said that they wanted to help Mr. Sheridan. "The message we have tried to send is that we're here to help you with the healing process," said the Rev. Elias R. Lorenzo, a spokesman for the school and St. Mary's Abbey, the monastic community that sponsors it. 
Father Lorenzo admitted that the school had erred by not investigating Mr. Sheridan's allegations earlier or reporting them to church officials, actions the school has taken this year. Since the July meeting with Mr. Sheridan, the school said, it has formed a board to review sexual abuse allegations, and one of its first cases was Mr. Sheridan's.
Father Lorenzo also conceded that the process of talking about money with abuse victims could seem harsh. Mr. Sheridan, at the advice of a lawyer, asked the school for $600,000 at the meeting. The abbot at St. Mary's, the Rev. Thomas J. Confroy, wrote Mr. Sheridan a check from his personal account for $2,370 -- not as a settlement, the school later said, but to help Mr. Sheridan, who is now unemployed, with expenses. Mr. Sheridan refused the check.
Father Lorenzo said the school, which has a $7 million endowment, is open to discussing a settlement if it finds the allegations valid. But he said it would be subject to approval by several authorities in the school community, including lawyers and a financial board of lay people. "That process can seem cold and alienating, which is what the victim may be reacting to," Father Lorenzo said.
That process has been particularly upsetting for Mr. Sheridan, one of only 46 members of Delbarton's Hall of Honor for service to the school. As an alumnus, he was a chairman of one of its fund-raising committees.
An affable six-footer with the solid build and aching knees of a former athlete, Mr. Sheridan, who lives in Morristown, is known around Delbarton as one of the Sheridan boys, along with his brothers, Kevin, Brian and Michael. They attended the school in the late 1970's and early 80's. Michael was killed in an accident as a teenager, and the school presents an award each year in his name.
Mr. Sheridan was a captain of the school's lacrosse and soccer teams while a student and remained active in sports after graduation, mixing his day job as a salesman with stints coaching or refereeing lacrosse.
He said he remained loyal to Delbarton in spite of his abuse. "I guess I just didn't want one person to ruin all that I had there," he said.
Over time, however, he found himself growing increasingly short-tempered and anxious. Mr. Sheridan, who is single, said he had difficulties in relationships. He was increasingly depressed. He first attributed those feelings to grief over his brother's death. But last year, he said, a therapist diagnosed chronic depression and post-traumatic stress disorder caused by the abuse.
"I kept this bottled up inside me for so long," Mr. Sheridan said.
He said he was molested by Robert Flavin, a monk at Delbarton who took religious vows as a deacon under the name Brother Malachy. Mr. Flavin, who left the Benedictines at his own request in 1987 and now lives in Pennsylvania, did not respond to several telephone calls and two letters over the past month requesting comment.
Mr. Sheridan said that in 1978, when he was a Delbarton student, the monk, claiming to be seeking information for another student, gave him a written list of questions ranging from the mundane, like where to go for a first date, to the sexual, about thoughts on masturbation, for example. Mr. Sheridan said he thought they were inappropriate and did not answer.
"He kept asking me, 'When are you going to turn 18, when are you going to turn 18?' " Mr. Sheridan said. "He said he wanted to take me out for a beer."
Mr. Sheridan said that on Dec. 28, 1981, five months after he turned 18, he visited the school after he graduated. He said Brother Malachy invited him to the abbey to lend him some history books. The monk left Mr. Sheridan in the abbey's cafeteria and said he was going to get the books.
When he returned, Mr. Sheridan said, the monk's pants were around his ankles. He said Brother Malachy was touching himself and urged Mr. Sheridan to grope him. As a stunned Mr. Sheridan turned to leave, Brother Malachy forced his hand down inside the seat of the teenager's pants and groped him, he said.
After 10 years of secrecy, Mr. Sheridan said, he saw Mr. Flavin, who had left the school by that time, at a homecoming event. A few weeks later he told school officials his account of abuse and asked for confidentiality, and school officials agreed.
But Delbarton officials now say it was a mistake for them not to inform officials at the Diocese of Paterson, where Mr. Flavin worked after leaving Delbarton; he was a volunteer at the Church of the Redeemer in Randolph. Delbarton officials said they recently tried to contact him, but received no response.
"If there is any mistake that was made when it was first learned, it was not informing the diocese," Father Lorenzo said, adding that the school believed that it was Mr. Sheridan's responsibility to inform prosecutors because he was an adult at the time he said the incident occurred. "However, the abbot acquiesced to the demands of the victim, who insisted on complete confidentiality."
Mr. Sheridan said that he was unsure of his next move. Too much time has passed to pursue criminal charges. But he remains more than a little disappointed in his school.
"There's three things that they teach you at Delbarton," he said. "Integrity, respect and service to the community. Where's the integrity here? Where's the respect for me as a victim? I just want them to live up to the ideals that they taught me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Sheridan, 39, said that when he was 18, he was sexually abused by a monk at the Delbarton School. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); LACROSSE (56%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (54%) SEX CRIMES; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT 

ORGANIZATION: DELBARTON HIGH SCHOOL; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: JONES, RICHARD LEZIN; SHERIDAN, BOB; LORENZO, ELIAS R (REV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



794 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-22

Iraq Rejects Proposal To Toughen Inspections
Iraq rejected a proposal by the United States and Britain for a Security Council resolution imposing tough weapons inspections, saying it would not accept any new rules for the work of United Nations inspectors. 1

The rejection could make it easier for the United States to argue its case for military action. News analysis. 1

Rally to Mark Anniverary
Thousands of Palestinians rallied and marched to mark the two-year anniversary of their conflict with Israel, and at least two were killed by Israeli fire in the Gaza Strip. Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, declared that they should remain steadfast in demanding territory. 22

Call for Bold Moves in Japan
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill declared himself mystified by the Japanese government's most recent attempts to cure the country's economic woes and mountain of bad loans, insisting that bolder reforms would be necessary. 22

Unesco Welcomes U.S. Return
President Bush's announcement that the United States would return to Unesco after 18 years has its director looking to focus on educational, environmental and cultural problems instead of internal reform. 22

NATIONAL 28-38

As Poverty Rate Rises, An Illinois Town Struggles
For the largely black population of Pembroke Township, a census report showing a nationwide rise in poverty for the first time in eight years sheds light on a longstanding problem. 1

Delicate Spot for Nancy Reagan
Nancy Reagan, whose husband, Ronald, is suffering from Alzheimer's, is discreetly lobbying against the White House position limiting embryonic stem-cell research. 1

A Nation Under Watch
The arrest of a woman in Indiana after a parking lot security camera caught her beating her daughter has drawn new attention to the presence of electronic eyes across America. 1

Investigation Angers Officials
A Congressional investigation into lapses in counterterrorism at the F.B.I. and C.I.A. has enraged officials at both agencies, lawmakers and intelligence officials say. 25

EDUCATION

Debate Over Drug Testing
Drug testing has become a hot issue because of a Supreme Court ruling last spring that schools can conduct drug tests on students involved in extracurricular activities. 1

NEW YORK/REGION 41-47

Giuliani Believes Firefighters Refused to Abandon Towers
Rudolph W. Giuliani, in his first detailed account of his administration's actions on 9/11, said mistakes may have been made at the World Trade Center, but the city was as well-prepared as could reasonably be expected. He said he believes that some firefighters, aware of the peril, died after choosing to stay in the buildings to save others. 45

Reversal on Investigation
The National Transportation Safety Board reversed itself and said that it would investigate the derailment of a prototype light-rail train during a test run at Kennedy International Airport. The safety board normally does not look into crashes involving modes of transit being tested. The train's operator, who was alone on board, was killed. 41

OBITUARIES 48

David Granger
The stock trader active on the New York Stock Exchange for longer than anyone else in history was 99. After acquiring his seat in 1926, he lived through Black Tuesday and a 1975 bombing in Lower Manhattan. 48

Chess 47
Weather 49


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSPECTIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TERRORISM (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); CENSUS (68%); STUDENT DRUG TESTING (66%); POVERTY RATES (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (63%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (62%); TRAINS (62%); COUNTERTERRORISM (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (93%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



795 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says Japan Must Make Bolder Economic Changes 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill declared himself mystified today by the Japanese government's most recent attempts to cure the country's economic woes, insisting that bolder reforms would be necessary.
 "I did not come away with an understanding of how these particular interventions are going to contribute to the change," Mr. O'Neill said this morning, after meeting on Friday with the Japanese finance minister and the chief executive of the Bank of Japan. 
 The remarks by Mr. O'Neill followed a series of contradictory statements on Friday by Japanese leaders on how they planned to clean up the mountain of bad loans that plague Japanese banks. But they also reflected the frustration of American officials about Japan's inability to push through economic reforms and contribute more to global growth. 
Japan, the world's second-largest economy, remains bogged down by tepid growth, deflation, a deeply depressed stock market and a bank system burdened by hundreds of billions of dollars in problem loans.
The frustration grew markedly today after Japan's finance minister, Masajuro Shiokawa, argued with his own ministry about whether Japan might be ready to use public money in cleaning up more than $400 billion in problem bank loans -- a move many experts have long advocated.
Mr. Shiokawa said on Friday that he told Mr. O'Neill it was possible. But the Ministry of Finance issued a correction shortly afterward, denying that the minister had talked about a publicly funded rescue. Then, hours later, Mr. Shiokawa angrily insisted that, yes, he had meant what he said.
The confusion arose as finance ministers and bankers from around the world gathered here for a weekend of meetings on global economic issues organized by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund.
But the meetings also drew about 7,000 globalization protesters, who marched through the city but were kept far away from the two organizations' headquarters by thousands of heavily armed police officers who barricaded streets around the buildings.
Inside the meeting halls, finance ministers and bankers were preoccupied with an array of troubling topics: economic turmoil in Brazil and much of Latin America; much weaker than expected growth in the United States and Europe; and continued stagnation in Japan.
Mr. O'Neill and the finance ministers from the world's major industrialized countries seemed intent on shoring up confidence about the world economy, but they had a more somber and less doggedly optimistic tone than on many other occasions. 
"We have had to scale down expectations of growth in 2002," said Wim Duisenberg, president of the European Central Bank. "The significant decline in the equities markets is having a negative impact on both investors' and consumers' confidence." 
In Europe, leaders now expect growth below 2.5 percent through 2003. Growth in Germany, Europe's biggest economy by far, has come almost to a standstill. 
Most forecasts about the United States are slightly more optimistic, but not much. Looming behind all the forecasts is uncertainty about the possibility of a war with Iraq and a potentially big spike in oil prices; the possibility that stock markets will be battered even more; and the unpredictable impact on confidence of more corporate scandals. 
American officials continue to be frustrated about the lack of dynamism in both Europe and Japan and about the inability of leaders in either region to push through economic reforms that might accelerate growth. 
"Mr. O'Neill pleaded for Japan and Europe to play their role in getting the world economy out of the doldrums," Mr. Duisenberg told reporters on Friday night. 
American officials are convinced that the European Central Bank could reduce interest rates more than it has, but the European bank follows a more conservative -- some would say rigid -- focus on fighting inflation. 
Mr. Duisenberg, who has listened to pleas for easier money before, responded that there were limits to what monetary policy could achieve. 
Outside the barricaded headquarters of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, security was so high that most people in the meetings could not even catch a glimpse of the protesters. There were few if any signs of violence, but there was much color and music as demonstrators gathered near the Washington Monument and marched to a park near the White House.
One group brought a huge inflated pig that bore a sign reading "Hog-tied Corporate Glutton," while another group carried a giant business suit with an Enron logo for a head. Many demonstrators dressed up in white plastic clean-room suits and carried giant cardboard syringes labeled "Green Vaccine" to symbolize the need for "disinfecting" bad ideas from the I.M.F. and World Bank. 
The crowd had hoped to "quarantine" the World Bank and monetary fund buildings, but they did not get even remotely close enough. 
The demonstrations drew more people today than on Friday, when more than 600 people were arrested for violating police orders. 
The Washington police said five protesters were arrested today, four of them for possessing what appeared to be an explosive device. The contents of the device, which was made of containers resembling coffee cans, were being analyzed, said Kelly McMurry, a police spokeswoman. The four protesters were arrested late this afternoon, a few blocks from the meetings, Ms. McMurry said.
The United States Park Police said it arrested a fifth protester, but did not describe the charges.
Ralph Nader, a consumer activist and the Green Party's presidential candidate in 2000, insisted the protesters' opposition to business-driven development policies of the World Bank and I.M.F. had picked up a new resonance in the wake of Enron and other corporate scandals.
"They're all demanding the same thing," Mr. Nader remarked. "Catch these crooked corporate bosses, make them pay it back and send them to jail."
The protesters include environmentalists worried about the destruction of Amazon rain forests, labor unions protesting the exploitation of low-paid workers in Asia and Central America, groups dedicated to greater debt relief for poor countries, and busloads of students from universities around the country. 
Soren Ambrose, a spokesman for several of the biggest groups, noted that organizers had vowed to keep the demonstrations nonviolent. Even the quarantine meant more as street theater than as an actual attempt to form a blockade. 
But in the high-security frenzy that has gripped Washington in the year since the Sept. 11 attacks, thousands of police officers were on hand with a full array of riot gear. As demonstrators discovered on Friday, the police here are showing little tolerance for people who do not follow the rules.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters marched yesterday near the Washington Monument, where they met other protesters and then marched to I.M.F. headquarters. (Michael Nagle/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



796 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Japan's Economic Woes
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said he was mystified about Japan's plans to fix its economy. He called for bolder reforms. PAGE 22

AirTrain Crash Review
The National Transportation Safety Board reversed itself and said it would review the crash of a train at Kennedy Airport. PAGE 41

Giuliani on 'Leadership'
The former mayor, whose new book comes out this week, hails firefighters' valor on 9/11 and acknowledges mistakes were made. PAGE 45

Elizabeth Taylor at 70
Elizabeth Taylor, in an interview at home, explains why she is the high priestess of Hollywood gothic, a survivor of domestic abuse and tabloid ridicule. SUNDAY STYLES

U.S. Golfers Pull Even
Tiger Woods and Davis Love III teamed up to win a pivotal match in four-ball play to help the United States Ryder Cup team tie Europe, 8-8, going into today's 12 singles matches. SPORTSSUNDAY

Pleasures of the Ocean
Special cruise issue: Ships stay closer to U.S. shores and expect a record number of passengers. TRAVEL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); TENNIS (85%); SPORTS (85%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (58%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



797 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 52 words

HEADLINE: Sept. 22-28: NATIONAL; 
POOR NUMBERS

BYLINE:  By Robert Pear

 BODY:
 The number of poor people in the United States rose to 32.9 million last year, and the poverty rate climbed to 11.7 percent, after falling for four consecutive years, the Census Bureau said. It attributed most of the increase to the recession, which reduced the earnings of millions of Americans. Robert Pear



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY RATES (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); CENSUS (83%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



798 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Ireland May Do More to Help Its People Abroad 

BYLINE:  By BRIAN LAVERY

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Sept. 28 

 BODY:
Shortly after she was inaugurated as Ireland's president in 1990, Mary Robinson put a candle in the window of her official residence here in remembrance of the millions of Irish people who had left their homeland.
 That light, now in electric form, can still be seen from across the fields surrounding the president's house. If the government acts on a recent report examining the plight of Irish emigrants, it will become more than just a sentimental gesture. 
 A government task force has recommended that the financial assistance that Ireland has extended for years to needy Irish citizens abroad be increased sharply, to $33 million by 2005 from $3.1 million this year; that new educational programs be created in Irish schools to help young people who are thinking of leaving; and that elderly emigrants be assisted in returning to Ireland for vacations and, where possible, be resettled here permanently.
"Those who have left this country remain part of what we are as a nation," the report said. "It is not enough to remember them. We must also value them, as they do us."
Unlike the broadly defined Irish diaspora -- the 70 million people worldwide who claim at least some Irish heritage -- these proposals are aimed at Irish citizens who left the country out of economic necessity or social pressures and now find themselves on the margins of society in their host countries.
The government estimates there are about 1.2 million Irish-born people living abroad, the equivalent of nearly one-third of Ireland's resident population. The largest portion of these Irish exiles -- some 845,000 -- live in Britain.
The Irish who moved to Britain in the 1950's largely found jobs in manual labor or as domestic servants, and received cash wages, which were often sent home. This group, recent studies have found, is now at retirement age, is poorly educated, is often in poor health and lacks retirement savings or pensions.
By contrast, the Irish who emigrated to the United States were better able to integrate themselves into their new country and have fared better financially, in part because these were already more prosperous emigrants who could afford the trans-Atlantic journey.
The Irish government already helps subsidize 57 organizations in Britain that provide services to Irish emigrants ranging from counseling on alcoholism and advice on Britain's public health system to social gatherings for the elderly.
Nearly every family in Ireland has been touched by emigration in some way, said Anne O'Donovan, chief coordinator of Emigrant Advice, a counseling service in Dublin.
"For years emigration was something that was hardly talked about," she said, calling it "the elephant in the corner" that everyone tried to ignore. More than 20,000 Irish continue to leave every year. 
The new task force report and its recommendations are expected to go before the Irish Parliament this fall. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); AGING (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%) IRELAND (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



799 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Stressing Industry In the Health Care Industry 

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 "New Jersey's Newest Pot of Gold," subtitled "A Medical-Industrial Complex Is Emerging Eith Billions for Business and Universities" (cover, Sept. 15) attempted to make a favorable comparison of this to the old cold war military-industrial spending. The focus of the article was on economics without any consideration for the critically ill population that the medical industry was supposed to have served. The article clearly illustrated just how far off track the medical industry has gone. Any real attempt to improve the medical/health care industry requires a change in attitude that responsible reporting can facilitate. Perhaps The New York Times can take the lead in providing more coverage of "health" and "care" when reporting on the health care industry.

RICHARD MARX
Highland Park


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); NEWS REPORTING (85%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

PERSON: MARX, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 



800 of 841 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: OUR CORRESPONDENT IN HANOI; 
Modern, But Unmistakably Vietnamese

BYLINE:  By Seth Mydans; Seth Mydans is chief of the Bangkok bureau of The New York Times

 BODY:
What stays with me most vividly is the sound, a whispering, swishing sound along the lakeside, the whirring of the tires of hundreds of bicycles in the dark night. A few of the bicycles had pedal-powered headlamps, and they darted past like fireflies.
 It was 1980, just five years after the end of the war, and it was my first chance, among a group of reporters, to peer behind the curtain at the other side, at what had long been a forbidden city for Americans. 
 That evening I found myself at Hoan Kiem Lake, the core and heartbeat of the city, the place where the people of Hanoi had gathered to celebrate their victory and where today, 27 years later, they are struggling to find a new balance between tradition and modern development. 
Postwar Vietnam was at its lowest point when I first saw Hanoi, crushed between the petulant economic embargo of the losers and the ruinous attempt by the winners to impose the communist economy they had fought for. 
By day, the city seemed half asleep. Private commerce was banned and shops were shuttered. The grandest hotel was a dank, poorly lighted chamber of creaking floors, spiders and dust. The old French Hanoi General Department Store, just across the road from the lake, offered little more than matches and soap on its nearly empty shelves.
At night, as I discovered, electric power was cut to save costs; it was as if the wartime blackouts had never ended. The people of the city center, escaping from hot, dark apartments, had found one entertainment for the evening: riding bicycles around the lake. 
There is a new, vibrant Hanoi today, eager to come out of its shell and embrace the modern world; the miracle is that it is also still the old Hanoi, graceful, tree-shaded, human in scale.
On warm sunny mornings at the southwest corner of the lake, there is jazz now, taped music to serenade strollers who stop to relax at an outdoor cafe. Restaurants crowd the nearby streets, along with art galleries and photo-processing shops. The old hotel, with its green shutters and ornamental ironwork, has come alive again as the elegantly restored Sofitel Metropole. There is a new department store as well, on the site of the old one, its boutiques and showrooms stocked in the most up-to-date of fashions and electronic goods.
As the city has come alive, it has also come face to face with questions of identity. Hanoi is eager to be as modern as its neighbors, but the horrible results of profit-driven helter-skelter growth are all around it -- in Beijing, Jakarta, Manila and, of course, in the brutalized city everyone loves to hate, Bangkok.
In its 992 years, Hanoi has changed repeatedly, but it has not destroyed itself. Its architecture is an ensemble of its history, from Sino-Vietnamese temples to French colonial villas to Soviet-era meeting halls to the present postwar embrace of Western glamour. 
Surprisingly, the American bombing campaign left most of this heritage unscathed. Some streets were destroyed by bombs; the Bach Mai hospital was badly damaged; a portion of the ancient sector, with its narrow streets, was ruined. But the old French railway station is the only major building to show the marks of war.
Hanoi is a city for strolling. On the northern side of the lake is the Ancient Quarter, with its narrow lanes named for the artisans who gathered there, a glimpse of the busy street life that once filled cities around the world. To the south stands the old French section, with its grand but wilting early-20th-century villas and its gems of Art Deco architecture.
When Vietnam threw open its doors to foreign investors in the early 1990's, developers led the way, with grandiose plans for a glittering new Hanoi. They soon ran into strong resistance from local and foreign architects who persuaded the government to formulate careful city plans. If those plans are enforced, new commercial and residential areas with their tall modern buildings will be zoned outside the city center. 
The colonnaded General Department Store on the edge of the lake was an early test of government controls. 
In its place, developers planned a 24-story twin-tower project that would have overpowered Hoan Kiem Lake. 
They got as far as knocking down the old building and clearing the site for construction. Then Vo Van Kiet, the prime minister at the time, stepped in, imposing limits on its height and structure. 
The resulting compromise, designed by a French architect, Claude Cuverlier, was completed just this year. 
It is a thoroughly modern building -- glass, chrome and polished marble, with a rare set of escalators that some people ride for sport. But it is only six stories high at its highest point and invisible through the trees that surround the lake.
Those rich green trees -- willows, myrtles, flame trees, tamarinds -- form a protective mantle around the lake, insulating it from the energy of the surrounding streets.
In an unexpected way, the city's new clamor isolates Hoan Kiem as well. Few bicycles circle it today, but thousands and thousands of motorbikes do, and their constant grumble beyond the trees creates a sort of white noise that adds to its intimacy.
It was from the depths of the lake, according to legend, that the 15th-century emperor Le Loi received a magic sword with which he routed Chinese occupiers. Hoan Kiem means Return of the Sword, commemorating the ceremonial moment when the emperor restored it to the lake. In one version of the legend, a golden turtle rose up to receive the sword, and giant turtles still inhabit the lake today.
Hoan Kiem is at its most crowded when few outsiders see it, at dawn. As the sky grows light, it reveals a throng of people in their underwear and pajamas, all around the banks, bending, twisting, punching the air, marching in place, flexing their torsos from side to side in a morning ritual of health. 
No two people seem to be doing the same thing at once. An old woman bends and bends to touch her toes. A man jogs past, lifting his knees. One woman, balancing at the edge of the embankment, kicks her legs like a Rockette. Another swings her arms like alternating windmills. A man stands on his hands. 
This must be a maddening country for a communist government to try to bring to heel, a country of stubborn, strong-willed individuals, each moving to a different personal rythm. It is a country where, on gentle, shaded streets, every motorbike, bicyclist, barrow driver and pedestrian seems to be following his or her own map, weaving and dodging blithely through impenetrable chaos. 
It is a country whose people are distinguished by their energy and also by their sentiment -- a country of romantic pragmatists. Vietnam is determined to surpass its neighbors in economic development, but it is also determined to bring its history, culture and social values with it as it moves forward. 
A capital city that is modern but unmistakably Vietnamese -- this is a formula, like its formula for economic growth, that the country is still struggling to define.
But as Hanoi shifts and stretches, Hoan Kiem Lake has remained constant, changing only with the seasons, not with the years. 
The morning ritual continues as the early exercisers filter away into the city, some of them still in their underwear, carrying plastic bags of herbs, greens and small limes bought from vendors under the trees. 
In their place, one by one, the old men begin to arrive. Like the turtles, deep below the surface, these men define the lake -- a renewable resource of retirees who come, generation after generation, to sit.
They take their places on stone benches, some squeezing tightly together with their feet tucked under them, their furled umbrellas and paper fans lying nearby.
The current generation seems composed in good part of former civil servants from French colonial times with their neat white shirts, glasses and leather sandals. Some are veterans of the wars against the French and the Americans, men who have seen the tumult of Vietnam's recent history and are content now just to look at the lake.
One man, wearing a fedora and dark glasses and swinging a cane, makes a circuit as he arrives, raising a formal hand in greeting to each member of his generation who crosses his path. Another, who fought the French until they withdrew in 1954, sits and sings poetry hour after hour, his hands and arms weaving the patterns of his words in the air. 
An elder with a long, sparse white beard says he has been coming here for more than 20 years -- since about 1980 -- and has been an old man all along. He began in his 60's and is now 85.
That seems a long time to sit and do nothing.
On the contrary, he said, he is busy here, moving around the lake as the sun moves through the sky, following the shade in the summertime and the dim warmth of the sun in winter. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Young women exercise beside Hoan Kiem (Return of the Sword) Lake. Below: The Ancient Quarter north of the lake.; A moment of meditation at sunrise.; A flower vendor wheels his bicycle past the cathedral. (Peter Charlesworth/AsiaWorks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (87%); DEPARTMENT STORES (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); JAZZ & BLUES (67%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; SPECIAL SECTIONS 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (57%) VIETNAM (92%); VIET NAM (90%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) HANOI (VIETNAM); VIETNAM; HOAN KIEM LAKE (VIETNAM)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002 

 
