

801 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Braces for Trouble in Indonesia as Relations Rupture

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Oct. 29

 BODY:
Relations between the United States and Indonesia have deteriorated rapidly after a series of high-profile disputes between the American ambassador here and Indonesian officials and lawmakers, who have accused the United States of meddling.
Apparently as a result, protests and threats against American citizens, companies and facilities are on the rise in this country, which has the world's fourth-largest population and the largest Muslim population. Fearing what it called a "credible threat of attack," the United States Embassy in Jakarta has closed its doors to the public for the foreseeable future. 
 The ambassador, Robert Gelbard, is under heavy guard after death threats and calls by Indonesian lawmakers for his removal.
For many Indonesians, the rupture in the traditionally friendly relations between the two countries can be traced to Mr. Gelbard, who since assuming his post here last year has been an outspoken critic of corruption and what he sees as the Indonesian government's slow pace of economic and social reform.
An embassy spokesman said relations between the United States and Indonesia were "not quite on the best footing as one would hope." The spokesman said the embassy was "deeply disappointed by the actions of senior Indonesian government officials, who seem determined to create a rift in an otherwise historically strong bilateral relationship."
Indonesia is heavily dependent on the United States for aid, trade and investment. The United States provided Indonesia with about $130 million in aid for fiscal year 2000, and in the first half of this year the United States surpassed Japan as the leading market for Indonesia's non-oil exports. American mining, energy, and apparel companies have huge investments here. The embassy estimates that about 8,000 Americans are living in Indonesia.
Now the State Department has advised Americans in Indonesia to keep a low profile, saying unrest and violence could erupt with little warning.
The United States Embassy said in a statement today that its consular and visa services, which were hastily closed last week, would not reopen as scheduled on Monday because of a continuing threat of attack, though it declined to give specifics.
In recent weeks, the embassy has been the scene of angry and sometimes violent protests, fueled not only by the diplomatic discord but also by growing sentiment in Indonesia, a predominately Muslim country, that the United States has favored Israel over the Palestinians in the recent Middle East violence.
Today, about 100 young men from radical Muslim groups stalked through the major hotels of Solo, about 260 miles southeast of Jakarta, searching for Americans, whom they vowed to expel from the city.
Yatno, an employee of the Novotel Solo Hotel, said in a telephone interview that the young men, dressed in white robes, descended on the hotel and demanded to see a guest list. When the manager refused, the group distributed leaflets demanding that all Americans leave Indonesia within 48 hours and warning hotels in Solo not to accept Americans as guests.
Kalono, leader of the Lazkar Jundullah, one of the radical Muslim groups, told the Detikcom local news service that his organization had evidence that American citizens and military personnel had been instigating the religious and separatist violence and unrest raging across Indonesia.
"We will conduct sweeps through the hotels at least once a week," Mr. Kalono was quoted as saying. "If we find any Americans, we take firm action against them." The group also demanded that Mr. Gelbard be replaced as ambassador.
Mr. Gelbard, a former antinarcotics chief at the State Department and special envoy to Bosnia, has strongly criticized Indonesia for failing to bring its military under greater civilian control and to disarm militia gangs that are accused of killing three United Nations refugee workers in West Timor last month.
Mr. Gelbard's brash manner has clashed sharply with the typically calm, nonconfrontational style politics practiced by the Javanese who dominate the higher ranks of the Indonesian government and Parliament. Several officials and legislators have accused Mr. Gelbard of interfering in Indonesia's domestic affairs, including trying to influence cabinet-level and senior military appointments.
Some lawmakers have demanded that Mr. Gelbard be recalled. Others have threatened to declare to him persona non grata.
Last week Foreign Minister Alwi Shihab said he had summoned Mr. Gelbard to clarify reports in the local news media that the ambassador had tried to influence the recent appointment of a new army chief, a charge the United States Embassy emphatically denied.
"He should learn about the psychology of Indonesians," Mr. Shihab said of Mr. Gelbard in a recent meeting with reporters. "Though he might have good intentions, if he doesn't understand the culture it could be misinterpreted."
A spokesman for Mr. Gelbard said that he was not available to be interviewed for this article.
Several Indonesian Foreign Ministry officials said in interviews that while much of what Mr. Gelbard says is fair and accurate, much is lost in his delivery. "No matter how bad the medicine, it tastes a little better if it's administered with a kindness and respect," one official said.
A Japanese diplomat based in Jakarta praised Mr. Gelbard's outspokenness, though.
"Mr. Gelbard has the respect of the diplomatic corps here because he says the right things -- things that other ambassadors want to say but cannot because of their countries' restrictions," the diplomat said. Japan is one of Indonesia's leading donors and investors.
While Indonesian officials have been quick to denounce Mr. Gelbard for his assertiveness, few have been willing to criticize their own colleagues, who in recent weeks have made seemingly groundless accusations against the United States that have further eroded diplomatic relations and stirred up anti-American sentiment here.
Last week Defense Minister Mahfud M. D. said that an American tourist arrested in the separatist province of Irian Jaya was a spy and that Mr. Gelbard had intervened to prevent the tourist from being deported. Asked to clarify his accusation, Mr. Mahfud declined.
In a statement, the United States Embassy said it lamented "the defense minister's repeatedly false accusatory statements, along with those of other cabinet-level officials that are contributing to a disinformation campaign that is creating a rapidly deteriorating environment hostile to United States interests in Indonesia."
Historically, Indonesia and the United States have enjoyed harmonious relations, even during the three-decade dictatorship of President Suharto, who stepped down in 1998 when the country fell into economic and social chaos.
The country's first democratic government came to power one year ago with the election of President Abdurrahman Wahid. Mr. Wahid's government has been struggling to rebuild the economy, install democratic institutions, crack down on corruption and control regional and religious violence across Indonesia, a vast archipelago of 220 million people of a variety of races and ethnic groups.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A policeman guarded the American Embassy during a protest by a group of nationalists in Jakarta last week. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Indonesia highlighting Jakarta: Anti-Americanism is rising in Jakarta and elsewhere in Indonesia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); INDONESIA (95%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (93%); 

COMPANY: NOVOTEL SOLO HOTEL (57%); UNITED STATES EMBASSY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES EMBASSY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); INDONESIA (95%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JAPAN (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); HOTEL STAFF (63%); RIOTS (62%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



802 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelan Leader Finds a Teammate in Castro

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Oct. 29

 BODY:
Fidel Castro has been known to make speeches that last up to eight hours, and Hugo Chavez, the president of Venezuela, can be nearly as garrulous. So there was no telling what would happen when Mr. Chavez invited Mr. Castro, who is making a five-day state visit here, to join him today as the only guest on his weekly radio program, "Alo Presidente."
What resulted was a four-hour gabfest that offered plenty of star turns for the two men who personify the past and the future of the Latin American left. 
 Dressed in matching military fatigues, they discussed Latin American history, geography and politics, joked, took turns criticizing a world order dominated by the United States, answered phone calls from listeners and, at the very end, even sang a song together.
Somewhat surprisingly, though, it was Mr. Chavez, a former army colonel who led an unsuccessful coup attempt here in 1992, who dominated the proceedings.
He was the one who set the agenda, delivered the sharpest attacks on social and economic injustices and pressed Mr. Castro to join him in singing a Venezuelan folk song despite the Cuban leader's protests, well-founded as it turned out, that "I am always so out of tune."
As is his habit, Mr. Chavez pleaded for Latin American unity, offering the increasing closeness of ties between Venezuela and Cuba as an example to the rest of the region, and condemned what he called the "cursed individualism" of unrestrained capitalism.
His goal, he said, is "the integration of our peoples to find economic development and economic and social justice," but he added that "we still have many bridges to cross."
At several points the "Hugo and Fidel Show" turned into little more than an exercise in stroking and mutual flattery. Mr. Chavez praised Mr. Castro for "giving us a lesson in Venezuelan history," while Mr. Castro extolled his host's efforts to revive the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, giving him credit for the dramatic rise in world oil prices in the last 18 months.
As was the case Friday evening in a speech he delivered to Venezuela's National Assembly, Mr. Castro's remarks had a valedictory tone that seemed to indicate that he regards Mr. Chavez as his ideological or spiritual heir. "I have confidence in you," Mr. Castro told his Venezuelan counterpart. "At this moment, in this country, there is no one who can substitute for you."
Playing the role of wiser older brother, Mr. Castro, 74, whose voice occasionally cracked, also offered advice on governance to Mr. Chavez, who is a very vigorous 46. "Chavez can't be the mayor of all of Venezuela," he said before urging his host to make more of an effort to mobilize Venezuelan society behind the "peaceful social revolution" he leads.
The site of the program was a guest house at Carabobo Park in Valencia, where the troops of Simon Bolivar, the hero of South American independence, defeated a Spanish colonial army in 1821.
Mr. Chavez and Mr. Castro gave every sign of wanting to stay on the air all day but said they had to cut the radio program short because Mr. Chavez was going to take Mr. Castro on a tour of the battlefield before heading back to Caracas.
The format of Mr. Chavez's weekly program, which began not long after he took office early last year, calls for him to answer questions phoned in by listeners, and that was the arrangement followed today. But all four of the calls taken, two from Venezuela and two from Cuba, were creampuff queries that allowed both men to sermonize at length.
Much of their conversation had to do with Bolivar, who was born in Venezuela and is Mr. Chavez's most important intellectual influence, and Jose Marti, Cuba's national hero.
At one juncture Mr. Castro approvingly quoted a famous statement of Bolivar's that "the United States seems destined by Providence to plague Latin America with misery in the name of liberty," and suggested that Mr. Chavez had come to the same conclusion.
Perhaps even more eloquent than their words, though, was the affectionate body language between the two men, whose previous public appearances during the state visit, which started on Thursday, have been in more much formal settings.
They repeatedly touched each other on the arm and shoulder, and smiled or made amused faces at each other's jokes during the program, which was also televised.
Much of their ribbing had to do with a Saturday night baseball game in the city of Barquisimeto that pitted a team of retired Venezuelan all-stars against a similar Cuban squad. Mr. Chavez had pushed for the game, a rematch of a contest in Havana last year in which the Cubans defeated the Venezuelans 5-4 with the help of ringers drawn from roster of the current Cuban national team.
This time the results were even more lopsided. Despite the presence of the former major league slugger Tony Armas in the cleanup slot of the Venezuelan lineup, the Cubans, managed by Mr. Castro, won 17-6, aided by eight Venezuelan errors.
Mr. Chavez, who started at first base for the Venezuelan team, did not perform much better than his teammates. He hit into a double play during his first at-bat, and after coming in as a relief pitcher in the ninth inning, gave up hits to the first two batters he faced before walking Mr. Castro, who had decided to insert himself as a pinch hitter, on a 3-2 pitch that was down the center of the plate but was deemed a ball by the Cuban leader.
At the start of the radio program this morning, Mr. Chavez acknowledged to Mr. Castro that "you gave us a real beating last night," but then jokingly complained that Mr. Castro had "negotiated" a walk with a compliant home plate umpire.
"Everything depends on the size of the strike zone, Chavez," Mr. Castro retorted, offering a justification that his critics will no doubt say applies to politics as well as baseball, "and in Cuba, ours is narrow."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Presidents Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and Fidel Castro of Cuba, after a friendly international baseball game. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA; CUBA; VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VENEZUELA; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); COUPS (73%); HISTORY (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (68%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); EXPORT TRADE (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%); BASEBALL (60%); 

PERSON: CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); ROHTER, LARRY FIDEL CASTRO (93%); HUGO CHAVEZ (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



803 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE STRATEGIES;
Democrats Remind Gore of the Economy

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Oct. 29

 BODY:
Frustrated and worried that their candidate has failed to capitalize on what they see as his best selling point, prominent Democrats say Vice President Al Gore needs to devote the closing week of the campaign to delivering an urgent pitch about his role in the administration's economic successes.
Several of these Democrats, including many of Mr. Gore's most enthusiastic supporters, offered a nearly unanimous verdict: the vice president has not benefited politically from the flourishing economy. And the best way for him to overtake Gov. George W. Bush, they said, is to convince voters that he has the record, and the skill, to keep the economy strong. 
 "He needs to go back to a message that will do more than electrify the base," Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, said in an interview. "He needs to go back to a mainstream message.
"He has to talk about the success of the last eight years," Mr. Breaux said, "and say that Bush has not given the country enough reason for a change. He should have been emphasizing more the economic successes of the administration. That would have not allowed the Bush people to paint him as a big-government candidate."
Scoffing at polls showing that the economy ranked below issues like education and health care among many voters, Gov. Gray Davis of California said: "All the more reason to remind them of their great and relatively recent good fortune. Most voters remember things were not too good when President Bush left office."
In a poll released today by ABC News, as well as in other recent surveys, voters said that Mr. Gore was no more likely to protect the economy than Mr. Bush. Mr. Gore has not entirely neglected the administration's success with the economy in his speeches and has talked about it increasingly in recent weeks. But he has not made it the central theme of his campaign.
As the campaign entered its final week, with most polls showing that Mr. Bush holds a slight lead nationwide, the friendly counsel of these Democrats took on a sense of anxiety. While several Democrats said they were still optimistic that Mr. Gore would prevail, they expressed fear that Mr. Gore, who was moving ahead in the polls only a month ago, had been outsmarted by Mr. Bush and had let his advantage slip away.
Today, Mr. Gore, who is growing more intense in his oratory, implored congregants at a black church in Detroit to support him on Election Day. "You have the ability to make the difference," Gore said at Hartford Memorial Baptist Church.
Shedding their usual spin, some of the Democrats interviewed in recent days uttered something that is obvious but that is not often heard from respected party officials: that a Bush victory is possible.
Even William M. Daley, Mr. Gore's campaign chairman, allowed as much in an interview on Friday. "Nobody really knows," Mr. Daley said of who will be the next president. "I don't know where it's going to be tomorrow, much less 11 days from tomorrow. Anything's possible. The only definite is it's statistically impossible for Nader to win -- or Buchanan."
In some ways, Mr. Gore's failure to capitalize on the economy was the result of his desire to stand on his own and chart a course separate from President Clinton, and the scandals that marred the administration. Many Democrats argued that he had never found a way to embrace the administration's economic legacy without throwing his arms around Mr. Clinton himself.
Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, a former Democratic national chairman, said Mr. Gore has been focusing on the economy but that "it hasn't been resonating effectively."
Mr. Dodd explained: "One of the difficulties is to talk about it and not talk about the president at the same time. It makes it an awkward conversation. Al Gore knows if we're talking about a third Clinton term, that would be a great liability. It makes your discussion about this somewhat stilted."
In the interviews, prominent Democrats said Mr. Gore had not sought their advice. But they said they had voiced concerns to his advisers that he had not sufficiently sought credit for the economy.
Most strikingly, the Democrats were united in offering the same advice: that the administration's successes must be front and center.
"He has a proud record, which he helped build," Governor Davis said. "In the last few days, he should remind people that it wasn't always this good and when it ain't broke, don't fix it."
Gov. James B. Hunt Jr. of North Carolina, a Democrat, said Mr. Gore needed to talk more not only about the economy but also about what Mr. Bush could do to harm it.
"He's got to be very aggressive in talking about what Americans have at stake and how Bush's tax cut is very risky," Mr. Hunt said, adding that the economy needs "to be the issue that brings the election home for Al Gore and the Democrats."
Several Democrats said that after the Democratic convention and into September, they were lulled into a sense of comfort that many voters had finally decided that Mr. Gore was the best candidate and that he had the edge with the president and a booming economy behind him.
But they said they were now in the unexpected position of fighting to hang on to the White House in light of the vice president's lackluster debate performances and his failure to lay out his achievements, as well as the Bush campaign's attack on his credibility.
While many Democrats still predicted that Mr. Gore would prevail, as a group the vice president's party seemed more nervous than the Republicans. Leading Republicans were much less likely than Democrats to offer advice for Mr. Bush in the final week. It could be that the Republicans were more self-assured.
"My gut keeps telling me that at the end of the day there's a Clinton fatigue factor," said Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, a Republican. "If I'm undecided and the issues haven't driven me to vote for one candidate or another, I think it comes down to credibility and likability."
Mr. Dodd said he and several Democratic colleagues met informally late last week and "everyone made a little wager" over who would win. "The overwhelming consensus was Gore's going to win this in a narrow election." But he said a couple of senators said that "they felt in their gut it was too close to call."
Mark Fabiani, Mr. Gore's deputy campaign manager, took issue with those who argued that the vice president should dwell more on the past.
"I can understand the frustration of people," Mr. Fabiani said. "But at the same time, everyone has to understand that Al Gore will be elected based upon his vision of the future. People naturally are going to give him credit for the last eight years. It doesn't help to be standing up and taking credit for yourself."
David Worley, chairman of the Georgia Democratic Party, said it was important for Mr. Gore to campaign independently of Mr. Clinton.
"I for one, am glad he's running his campaign and not relying on President Clinton," Mr. Worley said, "because that's what voters are looking for, independence. He's got to convince independents that he should be president and he's got to do that in his own right."
He also argued that Mr. Gore should emphasize the economy and his role in its success. "He needs to keep focusing on the issues and the economy," Mr. Worley said. "As long as he does that he'll do fine."
Some Democrats argued that if Mr. Gore had concentrated more on the economy, the Republicans would have had less success raising questions about his personality and stirring up the controversy over whether he embellishes facts.
"People are looking for something to finally resolve this personality thing," said Senator Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin, who counsels Mr. Gore to avoid attacking Mr. Bush harshly. "He should just stay focused on the issues, be presidential in his manner without overdoing it, but definitely point out that he knows how to do the job and that he's results-oriented."
Mr. Feingold was not as harsh as other Democrats in saying that the vice president had squandered opportunities. In the wake of the impeachment, he said, he had convinced himself for a year and a half that Mr. Gore could never win because of the Clinton connection.
"I think Gore has done as well as he could with the cards that were dealt him," he said. "Don't you remember a year ago, a lot of the stories said, 'Gore is sinking like a stone.' They tried to write the guy off."
Some Democrats said Mr. Gore's advantage in the polls after the convention evaporated not because he avoided talking about the past but because of other factors.
Governor Davis said he understood why Mr. Gore did not want to focus on Mr. Clinton or the past.
"He has a natural tendency," Mr. Davis said, "to want to be his own person and talk about what he'd do as his own person. That's just human nature."
But, he added, that it was vital for him to talk about the past "because past is always prologue. He needs to say, 'Here's what I've done and now here's what I'm going to do.' " 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (66%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



804 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: ON PRO BASKETBALL;
A Showcase Opening For a Flawed Product

BYLINE: By Mike Wise 

 BODY:
To open the National Basketball Association season, a doubleheader on TNT tomorrow night has been advertised hard by the cable network: Knicks-Sixers in an Eastern Conference donnybrook followed by Lakers-Blazers in a rematch of the Western Conference finals.
Spree vs. Iverson at the Garden. Shaq and Kobe, trying to saw in half the Portland timber. Be there, the whole shebang. 
 On some levels, it is the best the N.B.A. can offer today -- genuine rivalries and stars worth paying to see. Yet once you get past the theater on the floor, the real, opening-night story line emerges:
Welcome to a another riveting season, where roughly three teams in the West can win the championship, Elden Campbell is one of the premier big men in the Eastern Conference and Allen Iverson's controversial new CD hits stores in February.
You shouldn't hate this game. But you should be worried about it.
For instance, call up America Online, click "Pro Basketball," and this is what you get: "Arbitrator to Decide if Smith's Contract Could Be Voided" and "Strickland Charged After Refusing to Leave Restaurant" sandwiched around "Utah's Stockton Still Going Strong Entering 17th Season."
Nowhere can you find a more indicting story about the state of the league than the Joe Smith contract fiasco. Never mind the details, it is really about a ruthless agent who coaxed a frightened owner into signing an under-the-table agreement for . . . a decent role player.
Joe Smith is not Kevin Garnett. Smith may go down as one of the bigger No. 1 pick disappointments of all time, right up there with Pervis Ellison in 1989. But he was somehow worth circumventing the salary cap, breaking the rules, costing Minnesota five No. 1 draft picks, cash and perhaps its competitive future.
Then there's Rod Strickland, in some kind of scrape with the law again, charged with refusing to leave a restaurant that was being shut by fire marshals. It may be a misunderstanding. But here is the harsh truth about the Wizards' point guard: One of the most artistic and skilled players of his era is still too stubborn to realize he has just about thrown away what could have been a Hall of Fame career. He was that good.
Then you have John Stockton, 38, the pasty-faced point guard with the too-short shorts, plugging along with 37-year-old Karl Malone on the team that time forgot, their success and longevity minimized by the fact that they are both seen as too fundamental (read: boring) to capture a market share anymore.
It does not stop there. Iverson releases a hard-core rap single that is misogynistic, homophobic and punctuated by gunshots -- just like his gangsta rap heroes Jay-Z and DMX. He is seen as "keeping it real," not conforming to the N.B.A. that David Stern wants to sell. This is the N.B.A. in which it is O.K. to be hard and from the inner city -- in fact, N.B.A. Entertainment will even cooperate with videos -- as long as you don't bring too much of that life with you to upset the paying white customers.
Meanwhile, in somewhat related news, Smith's agent, Eric Fleisher, is still in court with his former protege, Andy Miller, whom Fleisher is alleging stole his business. What a business, huh?
Miller is another young barracuda whose main concern is how much cut his client can procure him. These are the people who disturbingly have influence in the N.B.A., who hear about this young kid tearing up the West Fourth Street courts during a summer tournament and immediately sink their teeth in.
I watched a very talented 16-year-old play there this summer. His name is Lenny Cook, a 6-foot-7-inch left-handed kid who clearly had the gift. He was named the top newcomer at the annual ABCD camp, one of the premier cattle calls for teenage prospects put on by the longtime sneaker guru Sonny Vaccaro.
"Mr. Sonny calls me all the time now," Cook told me after his summer league game. Because Mr. Sonny is an Adidas man, and may be trying to funnel a schoolboy talent toward one of his agent friends who represent Adidas clients. Because if Mr. Sonny does not, Nike will.
Cook seemed like a nice, impressionable young kid. Other than punting the basketball over the fence and on top of a neighboring brownstone after his team lost, he looked like a good sport. But he is already immersed in a culture that is telling him he is better than he is, enough so that he will reach a Division I school not with a sense of privilege but rather with a sense of entitlement.
Because of his special gift, he will be treated better than schoolmates who may go to M.I.T. and one day work for NASA or develop antibodies for incurable diseases. If he is good enough, he will end up in the N.B.A. before he finishes his education.
The biggest lament of many N.B.A. coaches today? How many times they have to tell a young player what to do. They are still teaching the game to unproven millionaires in baggy jeans who have yet to learn their trade. Nineteen-year-old Darius Miles, taken third in the draft by the Clippers and thereby becoming the highest high school player ever picked, has four teammates who are 20. Who is he going to learn the N.B.A. life from?
As Byron Scott, the new coach of the Nets, said last week: "In my day, you had to tell me once. That was it."
At the All-Star Game last February in San Francisco, the league put on an impressive technology summit that brought some of the top names in the dot-com world together. But it almost seemed out of place.
I have mentioned this before, and maybe it is too idealistic. But as the dawn of a new season begins, why can't Stern and Billy Hunter, the head of the players union, call for a basketball summit -- a panel of agents, coaches, sneaker pitchmen, old-school and new-jack players -- to figure out what went wrong and how to fix it, to bring back the sublime choreography of teamwork that left room for great one-on-one players to flourish while also capturing a public's imagination?
The magic has been gone for a while -- along with Michael and Larry. It is time to stop pretending.
You can't rely on Shaq, Kobe and Vince to sell the product for the next 10 years. They need help from more than their All-Star peers; they need the people who make money off their sweat and skill to forget about the profits and think about the future of the game. Before no one is watching.
Stern loves to bring up the television ratings declines throughout sports, as if the N.B.A. is merely stuck in some economic downturn unrelated to its product. No, David, it's not that. The public doesn't embrace your players as they once did, for reasons that begin before they come into the N.B.A. People don't talk about your league as passionately anymore. All the slick packaging cannot obscure that.
On nights like tomorrow, when Kobe is levitating beneath the rim and the Garden is full of noise and hope, you can still love this game. But it is getting harder and harder. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WEST USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: STOCKTON, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (58%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (84%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (84%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (58%); WESTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WEST USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%); STOCKTON, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (67%); INDICTMENTS (66%); RAP MUSIC (61%); HIP HOP CULTURE (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%); MARKET SHARE (50%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE KEVIN GARNETT (58%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (58%); JAY-Z (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



805 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1809 words

HEADLINE: Slowly and Saucily, Internet Animations Nibble at TV's Turf

BYLINE: By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
Will "Zombie College" be as funny now that Scott, the protagonist, has joined the ranks of the living dead? Harper Langston is just not sure. But he is among 2,000 fans to leave an e-mail address at Icebox.com, which shows this animated series, to ensure that they are notified of the next "webisode."
"Everyone here thought it was really funny," said Mr. Langston, 25, who recently discovered the show while eating lunch in front of his computer at work. "They should have T-shirts or mugs or something." 
 Mr. Langston is part of a small but increasing audience tuning in to the Internet for short bursts of entertainment. Web viewers can watch the seven installments of "Zombie College" at any time, in any order, or the latest "Queer Duck," which made its debut on Icebox this month with the catchy theme song: "Queer Duck, he's intellectual. Queer Duck, he's homosexual."
After years of sputtering attempts to prove itself as a medium for mass entertainment, the Internet is morphing into a more offbeat version of television that is often more profane and always less formulaic than its broadcast and cable counterparts. And just as millions of people now get information and buy products from previously unheard of sources on the Internet, some -- including a few television producers -- have begun to turn to it for entertainment produced outside the traditional entertainment industry.
"The ideas on the Internet are coming from different places, and there's less restriction on creativity," said Steve Gordon, vice president for creative affairs at Viacom Productions. "Some of it you'd have to tone down for TV. But we think the Web is a very rich place to look."
A few Internet properties have been optioned for television and film, but entertainment executives have been slow to embrace material that is often produced by unknowns, whose content may be inappropriate by mainstream standards and whose fan base is still tiny by a television yardstick.
"There's a lot of interesting stuff out there, but we haven't yet seen the Internet's 'I Love Lucy,' " Larry Shapiro, a new-media agent at the Creative Artists Agency, said during a recent digital entertainment conference in Manhattan.
"It's not that easy to get a TV show," he said. "We have a lot of clients with scripts who have been in this business a long time. Sometimes they get a pilot. Sometimes that pilot gets sold. And sometimes it actually makes it to TV."
But, encouraged by the growing number of homes and offices with broadband Internet connections, artists have flooded the Internet with animated shows and videos that have no other outlet. Those fashioning material for the Web often compare themselves to the Fox network in its early days, when it pushed the limits of broadcast television with shows like "The Simpsons."
With new digital tools, like Flash animation software, and shorter formats, Web features can be produced quickly and for as little as one-tenth the cost of a typical television show. And some have begun to attract small but significant audiences.
Most of the sites that sponsor Web shows like "Zombie College" -- which chronicles the adventures of a student who turns down the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to follow his girlfriend to a campus where students eat one another's brains -- attract fewer than a million different visitors a month.
That is a far cry from the 25 million viewers who watched the recent season premiere of "The West Wing" or the 50 million or so each month who visit Yahoo, the popular information portal that is the most popular site on the Internet.
Still, the producers of Web entertainment argue that the extent of the following they have won in so short a time demonstrates the existence of a market for entertainment beyond what is showing on television or in the local multiplex.
Heavy.com reports that about 40,000 viewers a day come to its site to see shows like its weekly spoofs of "Behind the Music," VH1's trademark celebrity profile show.
Fan mail for "Radiskull and Devil Doll" on Shockwave.com last summer prompted the site to begin merchandising, and more than 1,000 orders for 10-inch Devil Dolls at $11.95 each have been placed since Sept. 26, said a Shockwave representative.
"It's weird," said Joe Sparks, creator of "Radiskull," who said he was developing Web photo albums before he began dabbling with a singing skull, a dancing devil and a computer animation program called Flash. "Now I make cartoons. I hang out and talk about these dolls and how to make the head a little better."
Flash, developed by the software concern Macromedia, is largely responsible for the flourishing entertainment on the Web. Animation is the favored Internet format because unlike video it is easy to shrink to a size that can be delivered quickly without sacrificing visual quality. The Flash program makes animation files even smaller by using geometric descriptions of shapes in motion to determine what is displayed, rather than a series of stills playing in rapid succession. That translates into less waiting time between clicking and watching.
Recent versions of Flash have also become increasingly easy to use, allowing artists to compose animations on the computer that go directly to the Web.
"In the past there was no way a guy like me was going to make it to a mass audience," said Joe Shields, a cartoonist from Grand Rapids, Mich., whose "Joe Cartoon" series is on Shockwave.com, which is a Macromedia spinoff created to showcase Flash. Mr. Shields, whose infamous "Frog in a Blender" allows viewers to click on any speed button they choose and watch the results, said he quit his job drawing cartoons for a T-shirt company and now makes a living licensing cartoons to other Web sites and attracting advertisers to his own site, www.joecartoon.com.
But he is the exception, for now. Most companies and independent artists producing material solely for the Web lose money because unless an Internet show lands a television or film deal, it is almost entirely dependent on selling advertising to make money. Advertisers, who are not spending much on the Web anyway, have not been rushing to sponsor sites whose audiences are small and whose subject matter may not always be palatable.
"If I had to answer to shareholders, I wouldn't be doing this," said Josh Kimberg, chief executive of Bullseye Art, a New York-based Web development concern whose income from corporate clients subsidizes its production of cartoons like "Space Dog," about a dog who fights crime.
Mr. Kimberg said he had hoped Bullseye could license its cartoons to sites that had set out to showcase Internet entertainment. But the recent retreat by several such companies has led him to believe that an Internet property needs television sponsorship to succeed, he said.
Last month Shockwave, which paid large sums to celebrities like the directors Tim Burton and David Lynch to produce shows for its site, said it was shifting direction to focus on interactive games. A Web entertainment start-up, Pop.com, that was backed by a group of Hollywood moguls including Steven Spielberg and Ron Howard shut down.
Still, new revenue models may be emerging. AtomFilms, a Seattle-based Web site showcasing short films and original Internet properties, recently landed a sponsorship with Volkswagen AG, which seeks to lure customers to its site with entertainment supplied by Atom.
And for many artists the ability to experiment and the opportunity to short-circuit the Hollywood hierarchy seem to trump the low level of compensation.
"I chose to develop 'Zombie College' for the Web because I could," said Eric Kaplan, one of 12 writers for the Fox television show "Futurama." He said he was being paid for his zombie show with stock options in Icebox. "I was given complete creative control over a project at a stage in my career where I would never have been given complete creative control over a TV show."
The properties now playing on the Internet range wildly in quality and subject. Most come in three-to-five minute jolts of animated comedy, ideal for people taking breaks at work. They have titles like "Miss Muffy and the Muff Mob" (www.bullseyeart.com), featuring five animated girls with large muffin heads who bake, rap and spew profanity.
Most offer at least some rudimentary form of interactivity, to keep the viewer's attention during the minute or so it takes to download them. Some Internet users must download free software media players to enable them to view certain shows.
Much of the fare is aimed at male college students. But there is also Web programming for children, like "Herschel Hopper, New York Rabbit," a 38-minute Flash feature at Rumpus.com. And "Kozik's Inferno," a rendition of Dante's poem produced by Wildbrain.com with the artist Frank Kozik, may be suitable for all ages.
It is no surprise that Web entertainment has more profanity and nudity than is standard on broadcast television or daytime cable. "D-Life," on Heavy.com, for instance, is a sort of uncensored version of MTV's "Real World."
This fall Fox is planning to introduce toohotforfox.com, featuring reality shows including a version of "When Good Pets Go Bad," which was cut from its broadcast schedule for reasons of taste. Shockwave said it was waiting to install an age-verification system before starting the shows created for the site by Matt Stone and Trey Parker, the creators of "South Park."
"We found this year that there are people doing stuff specifically for the Web, and yet it's very compelling entertainment," said Jonathan Wells, director of the ResFest Film Festival, which is touring the nation as part of a program devoted to material made for the Internet. "It opens up new types of stories that just weren't out there before."
If traditional entertainment executives are not scooping up these properties en masse, they seem to be at least paying attention.
Two animations developed for the Web have been optioned for films, "L'il Pimp" (www.mediatrip.com), by the Revolution Studio, led by Joe Roth, and "Undercover Brother" (www.urbanentertainment.com), by John Ridley, a writer for the NBC show "Third Watch" who also did the screenplay for "Three Kings."
Showtime plans to turn "Starship Regulars," an Icebox series, into a half-hour television show.
One licensing deal can pay for a lot of digital production. Simon Assad, chief executive of Heavy.com, said the revenue from producing one weekly television show would cover the $250,000 Heavy spends each month to produce eight hours of original programming.
"It's not really about whether the economics are there or not," said Mr. Assad, whose company is negotiating with a cable company for just such a deal. "It's about whether you have something good enough that people will want to watch it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eric Kaplan with the character Zelda from his Web show, "Zombie College," which he works on when not writing for Fox's "Futurama." (Jill Connelly for The New York Times); The title characters from Joe Sparks's "Radiskull and Devil Doll," a Web show that has spawned demand for Devil Doll merchandise. (Shockwave.com)(pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (51%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC VIACOM INC (53%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (51%); ZOMBIE COLLEGE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC ZOMBIE COLLEGE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RECORDINGS (VIDEO) INTERNET & WWW (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ANIMATION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (72%); BROADBAND (50%); 

PERSON: HARMON, AMY ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



806 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey, Voters' Shifting Priorities Set Tone of Senate Contest

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Oct. 29

 BODY:
New Jersey, where three of five voters are unaffiliated with a major party, has long been seen as an island of moderation in the liberal Northeast. But Jon S. Corzine, the Democratic candidate for Senate, has built his candidacy on the belief that liberalism is back.
He campaigns for huge spending increases and new federal programs in education, health care and long-term care. For almost every problem -- from inner-city poverty to suburban sprawl -- he proposes a costly government solution. 
 Predictably, his Republican opponent, Representative Bob Franks, ridicules Mr. Corzine as an out-of-touch wastrel. Conservative columnists and radio hosts lampoon the bearded Democrat as a caricature of an old-fashioned, unadulterated liberal-cum-communist.
But Mr. Corzine, who prefers to call himself progressive, spent hundreds of thousands of dollars polling New Jerseyans before he ever began his Senate campaign. And, as independent surveys and interviews with dozens of voters across the state show, he is clearly onto something.
"I think that it's not just New Jersey that is more liberal, but the country in general," said Bruce Minolli, 47, a pharmacist in Middletown. "We in the baby boomer generation are no longer living under our parents' conservative thumb. Liberal ideas appeal to us, and it's time to follow them. If spending money now that we know will return with interest in the future is too liberal for people, then they can move out."
In poll after poll, New Jersey voters now overwhelmingly say they favor an activist federal government and more federal spending on education, health care and other programs. Concerns about rising taxes, long considered the third rail of state politics, are dissipating as the economy booms and governments and families share in the surpluses.
"It's very easy to be generous when you have money in your pocket," said Christy Davis, a co-manager of the Corzine campaign.
But Mr. Franks, a four-term congressman who has spent a lifetime in politics, bristles at the idea that voters could be beguiled by a candidate's platform alone.
"I'm going to tell people what I think we can afford and what I think we can't," Mr. Franks said today during a swing through the western part of the state en route to Giants Stadium for a tailgate party. "I don't think I'd be doing anyone a service by promising I'll deliver everything everyone wants."
Mr. Corzine seems to be doing just that. Through a ceaseless barrage of high-gloss television commercials, he has portrayed himself as the only candidate eager to reform the health care system, protect Social Security, expand Medicare to cover prescription drugs and send every toddler to preschool and every high school graduate to college.
"There's the allure of a person who wants to shake things up and to be a bit risky in government," said Jeff Mitchell, 51, a construction foreman from Freehold. "I think that your regular family is conservative, but dreams of being big spenders and taking risks. A guy like Corzine does it, and maybe some of his ideas will rub off on us."
Mr. Franks, who has been reacting to Mr. Corzine throughout the campaign, agrees with many of his goals, but generally argues for a more cautious approach. He speaks of increasing federal spending for education and expanding federal health-insurance programs, for example. But it is unclear whether his incrementalism, coupled with his dire warnings about the fiscal consequences of Mr. Corzine's expansionist agenda, will win over New Jersey's increasingly impatient voters.
"The question being put to voters through one-way advertising is, 'Are these good things or not?' " said Cliff Zukin, a political scientist and director of The Star-Ledger/Eagleton-Rutgers Poll. "Bob Franks has not been able to ask, 'Are you willing to pay more money for that?' But if people are willing to pay, and unless Franks can ask that, Corzine is essentially getting a free ride."
Mr. Franks, who has finally cobbled together enough money to go on the air with his own commercials, is doing his best to prevent that. He has narrowed his deficit in the race to the single digits -- nine points in a Star-Ledger/Eagleton-Rutgers Poll of 600 registered voters published today, and four points in a a new Gannett New Jersey Poll of 575 registered voters. He has done so largely by winning over Republicans outraged over Mr. Corzine's campaign spending. Independents and Democrats have been less moved, according to the polls.
But on the campaign trail today, Mr. Franks encountered a number of Democrats who said they planned to vote for him precisely because of Mr. Corzine's spending. "I never voted Republican, and I'm voting Republican in this one race," said Bob Dodelin, of Mount Laurel, who shook Mr. Franks's hand at an antiques fair in Lambertville.
Of less interest to voters, however, were Mr. Franks's dire warnings that Mr. Corzine would "bankrupt the federal government" and cause "backsliding" into budget deficits.
Mr. Corzine, however, has been affected by this line of attack. In recent weeks, he has largely dropped the word "universal" from his stump speech in favor of variations on a theme of "fiscal discipline." On Friday, taping a television interview, he repeatedly said any spending increases should be "prudent and thoughtful."
Mr. Corzine's pollster, Doug Schoen, said the campaign's surveys showed that when given a choice between spending for social programs and an across-the-board tax cut, which Mr. Franks supports, New Jerseyans favored social programs by a three-to-one margin. "When you add fiscal discipline into the mix," he said, "it's four to one."
In social policy, as well, Mr. Corzine's positions are not, as Mr. Franks claims, so clearly out of the "mainstream." Mr. Corzine opposes any erosion of abortion rights, for example, and supports gun registration and licensing. A New York Times poll earlier this month found that most New Jerseyans agree with Mr. Corzine on both counts.
Even Mr. Corzine's opposition to the death penalty has become less of an anomaly, as the release of scores of wrongfully convicted death-row prisoners and advances in DNA testing have raised new questions about capital punishment across the country. In New Jersey, the voters are of two minds, the Times poll found: just 46 percent say murder should be punished by death, while 40 percent, like Mr. Corzine, now prefer life imprisonment without parole.
But like his views on government spending, Mr. Franks's positions on social policy are more nuanced than Mr. Corzine's, making it more difficult for him to explain himself in 30-second advertisements, and making him more vulnerable to attack.
For example, Mr. Franks says he supports abortion rights but favors some restrictions, such as a ban on the late-term procedure its opponents call partial-birth abortion. But Mr. Corzine is running a commercial that all but accuses Mr. Franks of wanting to overturn Roe v. Wade.
New Jersey has not exactly lurched to the left, pollsters and political analysts say. Rather, the already wide center has been stretching in that direction for several years. The Times poll, which surveyed 908 registered voters, found that 44 percent of voters described themselves as moderate and 26 percent as liberal. Both numbers were essentially unchanged over the last few years. But conservatives dropped to 23 percent of the electorate from 28 percent in 1997.
Mr. Zukin, of The Star-Ledger/Eagleton-Rutgers Poll, points to two events that he said pushed unaffiliated voters in the direction of the Democratic Party: the 1997 gubernatorial election, and the battle in Washington over the impeachment of President Clinton.
"When Jim McGreevey started beating up Christie Whitman around car insurance and it became a class issue, that's when we saw the Democratic advantage in New Jersey change," Mr. Zukin said. "And when Republicans beat up Clinton around impeachment, the state became even more Democratic."
Over all, the number of people who consider themselves Democrats has risen to 39 percent from 33 percent in 1997, the Times poll found; only 23 percent call themselves Republicans, down from 30 percent in 1997.
The disparity is even more striking when voters are asked which party they feel closer to: 34 percent say the Republican Party, while 52 percent say the Democratic Party, according to the Times poll.
Mr. Franks, whose Congressional district re-elected him even though Democrats outnumbered Republicans there, no doubt recognizes this handicap, said David P. Rebovich, a political science professor at Rider University. "Why haven't we heard Bob Franks saying, 'On top of that, I'll be a member of a majority party?' " he asked. "He's afraid to say that, because the response will be that 'you'll have to kowtow to Trent Lott, and your seeming moderation will fall by the wayside.' To run as an incumbent Republican congressman really is an albatross."
Mr. Rebovich said Mr. Franks was wise to focus on Mr. Corzine's political inexperience and to paint him as out of touch. "What we need is a subtle liberalism, or what Franks would call a moderate approach to public policy -- compassionate, sensitive, but also sensible and frugal," he said.
Still, when social problems top every list of voters' concerns while tax rates keep dropping, it remains to be seen if frugality will have the appeal it had in the recessionary early 1990's.
"We are like the greatest country in the world," said Cynthia Schaefer, a fifth-grade teacher from Ocean Township in Monmouth County, where Republicans have long held an edge in statewide elections.
"If we can't supply our children with adequate health care, then there is a terribly big problem," she said. "I don't have a limit where I would say we can't afford that. We have to afford that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Franks campaigned at a tailgate party at Giants Stadium yesterday, accompanied by Gov. Christine Todd Whitman. He has narrowed Jon S. Corzine's lead, polls say. (Don Standing for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Jon S. Corzine, at a breakfast yesterday for the Central Labor Council of Hudson County. He is campaigning for new social programs, tapping into New Jersey voters' growing interest in an activist government. (Associated Press)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LIBERALISM (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); MEDICARE (76%); FAMILY (76%); PHARMACISTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (75%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (56%); SUBURBS (56%); WRITERS (55%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M; CORZINE, JON S; FRANKS, ROBERT D (REPR) JON CORZINE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



807 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Cole Leaves Yemeni Port For Long Journey Home
The destroyer Cole limped away from the Aden harbor almost two and a half weeks after 17 sailors were killed in an explosion. The Navy prepared to lift the 8,600-ton ship onto the deck of a chartered Norwegian salvage ship for the five-week voyage home. A10
 
Despite clues suggesting that the Cole was bombed by Islamic militants, American investigators lack concrete evidence and are wary of inflaming political turmoil in the Middle East by making unsubstantiated accusations, officials said. A10 

Drug War Nibbles at a Border
The Brazilian government is stepping up surveillance in a remote corner of the Amazon that sits on the frontiers of Brazil, Peru and Colombia, driven by a concern that the $1.3 billion the United States has promised Colombia to help its army may send the war against drug traffickers spilling into Brazil. A1
 
Small Mutiny in Peru
An Peruvian Army officer declared a mutiny in an effort to press President Alberto K. Fujimori to resign. The armed forces and the police continued to seek the seizure of Mr. Fujimori's former spy chief, Vladimiro Montesinos. A9
 
Fraying Relations in Jakarta
Relations between the United States and Indonesia have deteriorated rapidly after a series of high-profile disputes between the American ambassador and Indonesian officials. The United States Embassy has closed its doors to the public. A3
 
Moderate Ahead in Kosovo
The moderate Kosovo Albanian leader claimed victory in Kosovo's first postwar elections, and more militant parties formed by members of the separatist rebels appeared to have fared poorly, according to unofficial early results. A6
 
No Unity Coalition for Barak
Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel failed to forge an emergency unity government with the right wing, but is unlikely to face dismissal when Parliament reconvenes, as the ultra-Orthodox Shas Party said it would grant a temporary "safety net" while violence continues between Israelis and Palestinians. A10
 
NATIONAL A12-20
 
Gore Campaign Challenges Bush's Ability to Be Leader
Vice President Al Gore's wife and his running mate -- but not Mr. Gore himself -- portrayed Gov. George W. Bush as too inexperienced to be president, an argument the Gore campaign hopes will help derail the Bush candidacy. Mr. Gore cast the presidential election as a chance for people to reject the influence of special interests, saying at a rally in Michigan, "This country belongs to you, and I want to give it back to you." A1
 
Mr. Bush's aides detailed plans for a last push to reach undecided voters as well as Republicans through telephone calls, mail and the use of surrogates like former President Bush, Barbara Bush, Bob Dole and Elizabeth Dole on the campaign trail. A15
 
Prominent Democrats say Mr. Gore needs to spend the rest of his campaign promoting his role in the administration's economic successes. They say he has not capitalized on what they see as his best selling point: that he has the record and skill to keep the economy strong. A15
 
Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore are trying to convince the rest of the world that each of them would step lightly in foreign affairs. Beneath their words, however, lie very different priorities, and probably very different styles, in managing America's relations with allies and enemies. A1
 
Environmental, abortion-rights and gay-rights advocates kicked off a five-state tour aimed at persuading people thinking of voting for Ralph Nader that they should vote for Mr. Gore instead. A17
 
Congress Stuck in Stalemate
The House and the Senate, meeting in unusual Sunday sessions, once again approved temporary stopgap spending bills to keep major portions of the federal government operating for another 24 hours. The measures came as Congressional and administration negotiators made little progress toward agreement on the last spending and tax bills in the federal budget. A12
 
Protest in Death Penalty Case
Mexico has sent a formal protest to the State Department in an effort to prevent the execution of a Mexican citizen, scheduled in two weeks. The move is an example of the increasing intervention by foreign governments in death penalty cases. A20
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Voter Turnout Seen as Key To Winning New York Race
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll found that Hillary Rodham Clinton's lead over Representative Rick A. Lazio in the Senate race is about the same as the previous poll reported in September, and her prospects are very much dependent on how many of her supporters turn out to vote. A1
 
The state Republican Committee said its telephone campaign on behalf of Mr. Lazio would no longer include calls that referred to the bombing of the destroyer Cole to try to suggest that some of Mrs. Clinton's donors supported terrorism. State party officials said the campaign would continue with other calls, including some, aimed at Jewish voters, that question Mrs. Clinton's commitment to Israel. B1
 
Mrs. Clinton said she respected Islam and did not intend to offend Muslim Americans when her campaign decided last week to return political contributions from members of a Muslim American organization. B5
 
Voting Advice From Pulpit
Archbishop Edward M. Egan urged the New York Archdiocese's 2.4 million Roman Catholic parishioners to vote for candidates who "share our commitment to fundamental rights for the unborn." B1
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Ready to Move into Space
A three-man crew of astronauts from Russia and the United States is ready to blast off to the International Space Station to begin what could be more than 15 years of humans continually occupying the orbiting outpost. They are scheduled to lift off from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan tomorrow. A11
 
ARTS E1-8
 
OBITUARIES A21
 
Edith Ginsberg
The stepmother of the late Allen Ginsberg, to whom he dedicated his "White Shroud, Poems 1980-1985," was 94. A21
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
Wrapping Up a Merger
Procter and Gamble is expected to announce today that it helped arrange the merger of Film Fabricators and Johnson-Bryce, packaging companies from which it buys supplies, and gave them a $100 million contract to wrap Pampers diapers for going through with the deal. C6
 
Who Wants a Facelift?
Less than a year after it changed the face of network prime-time competition, the ABC game show, "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" is coming back to earth, moving down in status from phenomenon to solid performer, and its producer is already contemplating a facelift. C1
 
Pilot Union's Leadership Quits
The top three officers of the union representing American Airlines pilots have resigned one month after members rejected a one-year contract extension, the Allied Pilots Association said. C6
 
Actors' Strike Ends
The longest talent walkout in Hollywood history is over. Representatives of television and radio commercial actors voted to go back to work, ending a six-month strike. C10
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-16
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: Improving bilingual education; for Congress from New Jersey; Verlyn Klinkenborg on "chaste weather."
 
Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E4
Public Lives A12
Crossword E4
TV Listings E7
Metro Diary B2
Weather B7 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (93%); KOSOVO (93%); INDONESIA (93%); BRAZIL (93%); YEMEN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (75%); 

COMPANY: US NAVY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PERU (93%); KOSOVO (93%); INDONESIA (93%); BRAZIL (93%); YEMEN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); BOMBINGS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ESPIONAGE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MARINE SALVAGE (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); DRUG POLICY (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); RELIGION (56%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); ELIZABETH DOLE (55%); EHUD BARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



808 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2026 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE EDUCATION ISSUE;
Critics Say a Focus on Test Scores Is Overshadowing Education in Texas

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 29

 BODY:
For every administrator, teacher, parent and student in Texas public schools, the Texas Assessment of Academic Skills is the sun around which education orbits. Nothing else is as important as the state's standardized test.
It is also important to Gov. George W. Bush. From the day he began running for president, Mr. Bush has made education his signature issue, boasting of rising test scores during his tenure and portraying the Texas system as his blueprint for America. 
 But even as Mr. Bush has pointed to the scores, a growing number of teachers, parents and academics are questioning whether Texas's system is truly producing better students. The political rhetoric of the so-called Texas miracle in education seems high blown to many parents and teachers. Nor do they believe the other extreme, that the system is fundamentally failing. But many worry that the test has become so consuming that more meaningful instruction is often eclipsed in the rush for high scores.
"All the emphasis has been on scores, scores, scores," said Dan Weaver, a board member in the El Paso Independent School District.
To be certain, the same complaints heard in Texas can be heard in many states. But in many Texas school districts, teachers and parents say, test preparation is overwhelming the curriculum. State university officials have complained that large numbers of Texas high school students are not prepared for college. Other critics wonder if one reason test scores have improved is that so many weaker students have simply dropped out. And others question if the scores are inflated because the tests are padded with easy questions.
"There are a lot of easy questions on that test that reflect very low-level academic skills when compared to the grade being tested," said George Scott, an education analyst and Houston-area consultant who is often critical of the state education department.
State education officials respond that the system is not flawless, nor has it finished evolving. They point to a new program intended to better track dropouts, and they acknowledge that many districts are unnecessarily force-feeding test preparation. Others note that states such as California and New York have adopted accountability systems similar to the one in Texas. The officials say that the tests are not padded but that students are simply doing better.
"I think we're on the right track," said Jim Nelson, the Texas education commissioner. "Is it perfect? Of course not. But I would rather be where we are than where a lot of other states are."
Education in Texas again became a campaign issue last week when a new RAND Corporation study suggested that intense drilling for the state test, known as TAAS, may be artificially inflating the scores.
The test covers math, reading and writing, and is given in the 3rd through 8th grades and in 10th grade as a requirement of graduation. The number of students in all grades passing all sections of the test has risen to 80 percent this year, from 58 percent in 1995, when Mr. Bush took office. The biggest gains have been among black students, where the rate has gone to 67 percent from 31 percent, and Hispanics, to 72 percent from 39 percent.
Although the Bush campaign strongly disputed the RAND study, pointing to an earlier, more favorable RAND report, some parents, like Carol Holst, were not surprised. Mrs. Holst's son is a fifth grader in a suburban Houston school where she said teachers spent six weeks ignoring subjects not on the test, like science and social studies, while preparing students for the TAAS.
"They do the same writing formulas for months at a time," said Mrs. Holst, who has formed a parents group to change the system.
The heavy drilling appears to have contributed to morale problems among teachers. In an annual survey this year by the Texas State Teachers Association, 43 percent of respondents said they were "seriously considering leaving the profession because of low pay, poor benefits, and stress," including in some cases frustration over the test.
One teacher, Erika Silva, 29, said she left an elementary school in Houston two years ago for a private school, in part because of her frustration over the TAAS. "There was a lot of pressure," Ms. Silva said. "We taught to the test. It was just an understood thing."
Such departures may be exacerbating a teacher shortage in Texas that echoes one nationwide. In August, the state teachers association estimated a deficit of 28,000 teachers and noted that about 44,000 positions were filled last year with teachers not certified in their assigned subject. Mr. Nelson said this shortage had prevented the state from expanding the number of college preparatory courses, like chemistry and calculus.
The shortage of such courses comes as Texas is struggling to better prepare students for college. Even as TAAS scores have gone up, the scores of Texas students on college entrance exams have been stagnant. The Bush campaign says those scores have remained flat because more students are taking the tests, considered a good sign, though the percentage of the overall enrollment taking the test has actually not changed.
State colleges and universities require students to pass a standardized test either upon leaving high school or once enrolled in order to take higher level courses. But in 1998, only 31 percent of students taking the test for the first time passed all sections. In February 1999, officials with the University of Texas system presented a report to a Texas House subcommittee complaining of "marked declines in the number of students who are prepared academically for higher education."
To a large degree, Texas's education system is a product of the boardroom, not the classroom. A movement began in the 1980's, led in part by Ross Perot, when Texas ranked at the bottom nationally in education, and has evolved since.
Many legislators credit Mr. Bush for emphasizing education and helping to strengthen the system.
The system is built on conservative, business world maxims of accountability and standards in which public schools receive a report card ranging from exemplary to unacceptable. The ratings are based on attendance, dropout rates and, most important, TAAS scores. But in rating schools, the system became the first in the nation to make this demand: The school as a whole must attain certain achievement levels, as must each major demographic group -- whites, blacks, Hispanics and low-income students. If one group fails to meet any of the criteria, the whole school is downgraded.
"We think it is one of the best hopes for introducing equity into American education," said Amy Wilkins, an analyst at Education Trust, a Washington group that advocates for poor and minority students. Ms. Wilkins said the Texas system was intended to prevent lower achieving students from falling through the cracks.
But there are questions of whether the "pay for performance" premise from the business world is appropriate for education.
Superintendents in some districts can receive $25,000 bonuses depending on TAAS scores. Principals and teachers can also be rewarded, or punished, based on the scores. The pressure to pass can be enormous; several districts have been caught cheating. Last year, the county attorney in Austin charged the city's school district and a top administrator with test tampering.
Another question is whether the accountability system is working for minority students. The RAND study found that the achievement gap between white and minority students was actually growing.
A discrimination lawsuit by a Mexican-American legal group argued that schools were intentionally holding back minority ninth graders that they feared would fail the 10th-grade test. These students, the lawsuit argued, often became dropouts.
In January, a federal judge upheld the constitutionality of the test and ruled that the plaintiffs had not proved their argument on dropouts. But the judge declared dropouts a serious problem and agreed that a "peculiarly" high number of minority students were retained in ninth grade. The state's most recent statistics show that one of every four black or Hispanic students is retained in ninth grade. Over all, one in six ninth graders is held back, the state statistics show.
"We're seeing an increase in the number of minority kids who are dropping out," said Linda McNeil, a Rice University professor who testified against the state in the TAAS lawsuit. "And the ones who are held back are by far the ones most likely to drop out."
The issue of dropouts cuts directly to Mr. Bush's promise that the system "leaves no child behind." State statistics show the dropout rate is nearly 15 percent, higher among blacks and Hispanics, while other studies question the state's counting system and put the rate above 30 percent. In September 1999, The El Paso Times published an investigation showing that more than 30,000 students labeled by the system as "transfers" were most likely dropouts. A study of big city schools by State Senator Gonzalo Barrientos, a Democrat, found that more incoming ninth graders dropped out than graduated on time.
Education officials disputed these findings and said the state began a program to track dropouts in 1998. The results will not be known until 2003.
The rigor of the test has also been questioned. An American Federation of Teachers study found the TAAS to be far easier than its counterpart in New York. The TAAS is supposed to represent a grade-level standard. But state education officials concede that the math portion of the 10th-grade exam is probably an eighth-grade test. Other critics say some questions are closer to sixth grade.
"The thing we're against is the way the TAAS test has taken over our school," said Susan Sarhady, head of a parent's group in Plano, an affluent, largely Republican Dallas suburb. "In the districts that have high passing rates, parents wonder why we are concentrating so much on the TAAS. It is very boring. There are literally addition problems on the 10th-grade test."
Although the state curriculum has become more rigorous under Mr. Bush, the test has not. Many administrators feared that the test would be tougher when the new curriculum was incorporated last year.
But Mr. Nelson, the education commissioner, wrote a memorandum in October 1999 assuring school administrators that while the test would be more difficult, "a child who would have passed last year's test will also pass this year's test."
How? State officials adjust the score needed to pass, depending on how difficult they judge the test to be. So when the 1999 test included material considered more difficult, fewer correct questions were required to pass.
"If you make a test harder but you make students answer fewer questions correctly, aren't you just running in place?" asked Mr. Scott, the Houston education analyst.
Mr. Nelson said adjusting the score ensures continuity and fairness so each class is measured against the same standard. He added that in 2003 the state will introduce TAAS II, a more difficult test that will include science and social studies.
 
A SAMPLER
10th Grade Math in Texas
 
Following are math questions included in the Texas Assessment of Academic Skills given to 10th graders this year.
 
1. In 40 baseball games Juan's team has scored 50 runs. If the team continues at this rate, how many runs could the team expect to score in a 160-game season?
A 128
B 170
C 200
D 250
 
2. Marlena has a housecleaning business. She charges $4.50 per room and gives a $5 discount to customers who provide their own cleaning supplies. Which equation could be used to find t, the total cost to a customer who has r rooms and who provides the cleaning supplies?
A t = 4.50(r + 5)
B t = 4.50r - 5
C t = 4.50t + 5
D t = 4.50r + 5
E r = 4.50(t - 5)
 
3. Andy participated in a neighbor's garage sale. He sold 3 items: a picture frame for $8.50, a teapot for $3.75 and a set of 6 cups for $4.75. What were his total sales?
A. $9.35
B. $15.00
C. $15.90
D. $17.00
E. $23.00
 
ANSWERS: 1. C; 2. B; 3. D 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%); EL PASO, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%); EL PASO, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; DROPOUTS; ELECTION ISSUES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); PARENTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); YARDLEY, JIM GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



809 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: ON HOCKEY;
Banned in Boston? Not Mike Keenan

BYLINE: By Joe Lapointe 

 BODY:
Early this month, Mike Keenan returned to Madison Square Garden wearing a Rangers jacket and looking for a new fit. An unemployed hockey coach, Keenan heard cheers in a ceremony honoring 75 seasons of franchise history.
Although he directed the Rangers to the Stanley Cup in 1994, Keenan washed out of two jobs after that and the gap on his resume had grown, ominously, to almost two years. Did he worry that a call to coach a sixth National Hockey League team would never come? 
 "That's always in the back of your mind," Keenan said last night, when he returned to Eighth Avenue as the new coach of the Boston Bruins. "There is always a level of anxiety."
The Rangers beat the Bruins by 5-1, leaving Keenan with one victory, one defeat and one regulation tie in three games.
Iron Mike now has an ironclad one-year contract, with extensions at the team's option. In the past, Keenan created mostly successful records and many bruised feelings in Philadelphia, Chicago, New York, St. Louis and Vancouver. When not also the general manager, he put pressure on people in that position. One was Neil Smith, the Ranger boss in 1994. Keenan has learned his lesson, he said last week.
"Managers manage," Keenan said. "Coaches coach. Players play."
This time his commander is Harry Sinden, who arrived in Boston shortly after the Tea Party and who may never leave, despite frequent hints that he might retire soon and suggestions by some fans that he should. Sinden is set in his ways, which include moderate wages for players and frequent replacements on his coaching staff. Oh, to be a fly on the wall when Keenan visits Sinden's office to tell him to spend more money on better players, to trade 5 or 10 guys, and to do it right away, or else. Will Sinden respect Keenan's input?
"I think so," Keenan said. "Harry has a level of respect for me."
Sinden is a fishing buddy of Glen Sather's, the new cigar-chewing boss of the Rangers. Both Sinden and Sather are anchors of the N.H.L.'s old-boys network. When Sather sought a coach last summer, he floated Keenan's name. Does Keenan think Sather put in a good word with Sinden when Sinden fired Pat Burns last week?
"Someone behind the scenes, I'm sure, has helped me," Keenan said. "If he did, I appreciate it. I have a lot of respect for Glen. There might have been some influence there."
Keenan said that Sinden and Sather are the only two general managers in a 30-team league who would hire Keenan without being told to do so by an owner.
Earning about $600,000, Keenan is working cheap for this era. With little job security, he cannot be complacent. In the first period last night, after the Rangers scored the first goal of the game, Keenan replaced goalie Andrew Raycroft with Kay Whitmore. It did not make much difference as the Rangers ended a four-game losing streak.
For Keenan's team, it was the third game in four nights since he took over. He is only beginning to match names with faces and to learn which buttons to push with his personnel. Conditioning, a Keenan trademark, will be measured.
"Maybe the muscle memory has to be changed a bit because we're playing an upbeat style and high-tempo game," he said.
They played nothing of the sort against the Rangers. The Bruins seemed flat-footed. They lost most of the one-on-one battles. The Rangers were a half-step quicker.
"We played a desperate team," Keenan said. "We hit a wall, emotionally and physically."
Someone asked Keenan whether he was glad to be back. "Tonight? Not good," he replied with a smile. "Generally speaking, great."
Earlier, he said: "I have such a love for the game and passion for it. You come to realize how much it is part of your life."
With a group of reporters in a semicircle around him, an arm poked through to shake Keenan's hand. It belonged to Sather. "Hi, Glen," Keenan said. "Thank you. Appreciate it very much."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Keenan is back behind a bench. (Norman Y. Lono for The Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON BRUINS MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (58%); NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); BOSTON BRUINS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); DALLAS STARS (57%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (57%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON BRUINS NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); NEW YORK RANGERS (93%); BOSTON BRUINS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); DALLAS STARS (57%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (57%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; COACHES AND MANAGERS WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); 

PERSON: LAPOINTE, JOE; KEENAN, MIKE MIKE KEENAN (99%); GLEN SATHER (90%); HARRY SINDEN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



810 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
GORE TEAM RENEWS CRITICISM OF BUSH AS INEXPERIENCED

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: MUSKEGON, Mich., Oct. 29

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore portrayed the presidential election today as a chance for people to reject special interests, while his wife and running mate pronounced Gov. George W. Bush too inexperienced to be president.
Those two themes dominated the day as Mr. Gore scoured for votes throughout Michigan on a bus tour that had him speaking before black churchgoers in the morning, Reagan Democrats in the afternoon and a throng of about 15,000 supporters this working class city in Western Michigan. 
 "You have the power," Mr. Gore said at an afternoon rally in East Lansing. "You have the opportunity, because on that one day every four years, the special interests tremble at the thought that you will penetrate the smoke screen, that you'll see through the efforts to fool you, that you'll ignore the clever, the cleverly designed TV commercials."
But instead, he predicted, "You will vote what's right for your family and for your future and for the loved ones that are depending upon your right as an American citizen to cast in the right way."
By contrast, Mr. Bush was off the campaign trail today. He spoke by satellite from his home in Austin, Tex., to a group of Hispanic Republicans in California. His aides, meanwhile, outlined what they called the largest ever Republican grass-roots effort to get out the vote. Page A15.
While Mr. Gore was emphasizing what he wants to do as president, his campaign was trying to sow doubts about how Mr. Bush would perform in the job.
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, Mr. Gore's running mate, made the round of Sunday talk programs to voice this emerging campaign theme, and Tipper Gore declared it to a few thousand people at a rally in Warren, Mich.
"It's not 'The Dating Game,' " Mrs. Gore said, perhaps tacitly ceding the edge in likability to Mr. Bush.
"You don't have to fall in love with Al Gore -- I did that," Mrs. Gore said. "What you need to do is figure out who you're going to vote for for president, and I know that you are going to weigh experience. That's important."
Mr. Lieberman used forceful if less personal language this morning.
"I don't think Governor Bush is ready -- based on his experience, his record, his proposals in this campaign -- to be the kind of president that the American people need at this point in our history," Mr. Lieberman said on the ABC News program "This Week."
"His proposals way overspend the projected surplus," Mr. Lieberman said. "They take us back into deficits, raise interest rates, drop the stock market, raise unemployment."
Mr. Gore did not talk about his opponent's qualifications, sticking to his vow not to personally attack Mr. Bush. But he did assail Mr. Bush's record and proposals, delivering sermons laced with lines from his stump speech at two black churches in Detroit.
Describing Mr. Bush's tax-cut plan, he warned a church congregation that if Americans "put our trust in that disproven, discredited, failed theory that says give it to those at the very top and ultimately it will work its way down, we tried that. Been there, done that, still paying the bill."
As his campaign caravan cut through Michigan today, Mr. Gore pleaded for votes at every stop, portraying Mr. Bush as a captive of special interests like drug companies, the oil industry and the managed-care industry, and telling voters that Election Day was their chance to strike back.
"This country belongs to you, and I want to give it back to you," Mr. Gore shouted at the rally in Muskegon on the first day of a two-day bus caravan in Michigan and Wisconsin. "And if you elect me on Nov. 7, I will give it back to you."
Casting his 24 years in political office as those of a crusader against the "special interests," Mr. Gore added, "I know where the rats in the barn are, and you know what, the rats in the barn know that I know, and that's why they're coming out trying to stop us."
Mr. Gore's day began with a private meeting with two dozen representatives of Arab-Americans, who make up an important voting bloc in this state, and after the meeting, six endorsed him.
James Zogby, president of the Arab-American Institute and chairman of the Arab-American Democratic Leadership Council, said that about 20 Arab community leaders would endorse Mr. Gore on Wednesday when he returned to Michigan.
"It was a very good discussion," Mr. Zogby said. "He asked for frankness, and people gave him frankness."
Some Arab groups have been concerned that Mr. Gore's selection of Mr. Lieberman as his running mate would make him biased in favor of Israel.
"He made it very clear that he was a friend of Israel," Mr. Zogby said. "But he said, 'Look, I'm also a friend of Egypt, I've worked to promote job development in the West Bank,' " a reference to Mr. Gore's having been a sponsor of a group called Builders for Peace, which is an Arab-American and Jewish-American alliance to promote investment in the West Bank.
"It was a group that wants him to be evenhanded and establish ties on both sides," Mr. Zogby said, "and they went away convinced that he's done that for the last seven years."
At the church services, Mr. Gore talked stump and Scripture as he sought to inspire the congregants to go to the polls for him.
"Paul wrote twice, to the Galatians and Second Thessalonians, 'Do not grow weary in well doing.' We have done well in the last eight years," Mr. Gore said from the pulpit at the Hartford Memorial Baptist Church. Continuing to quote, he said: "But in due season we shall reap if we faint not."
Then, switching to his stump speech, he blurted out: "You ain't seen nothing yet."
He found a new way to illustrate Mr. Bush's tax cut: "My opponent proposes to spend more money on tax benefits to the wealthiest 90,000 multimillionaires than all his proposals to spend money on 90,000 public schools all across the United States of America."
And he boiled down his criticism of the governor's prescription-drug plan to this: "The only thing you need to know about the proposal my opponent has made is that the big pharmaceutical companies support it."
Describing the problems that some older people have in paying for their medications, he added: "Those seniors are choosing between skipping pills and skipping meals. They're choosing between this medication and the other one. And it is wrong. The big drug companies are deeply involved in this election. They've supported not only my opponent's proposal, but supported him massively."
He raised the audience to its feet by declaring: "You have the ability to make a difference. This state has the ability to decide this close election. You have the ability to decide what this state decides."
With his hands stretched out, the vice president implored the crowd, "Don't sit down, because I don't want you to have to get right back up again."
In the spring, Mr. Gore contended that Mr. Bush lacked the experience to be president, but he has not made that argument for months, presumably for fear of being seen as breaking his vow not to personally attack the governor.
Mr. Gore has even gone to some lengths to tell reporters that he is not making that argument. In a late-night flight on Saturday from Minneapolis to Romulus, Mich., Mr. Gore was asked about an editorial in The New York Times, which in endorsing Mr. Gore said that Mr. Bush was too inexperienced for the job.
Asked if he believed that, the vice president responded, "I haven't said that I believe it, because I don't think it's my place to say that I believe it."
Nonetheless, Tad Devine, a top Gore strategist, said the campaign intended to capitalize on the "tremendous sense of unease" that voters feel about Mr. Bush's lack of experience.
"In many ways, Governor Bush is not up to the job of being president," Mr. Devine said, adding that while Mr. Gore's positions on issues would be the central argument for the vice president's election, the campaign would make the lack of experience the central issue against Mr. Bush.
Mr. Devine also said that Mr. Gore would be linking Mr. Bush more directly with Congressional Republicans, an argument Mr. Gore began to make on Saturday in an address in Pennsylvania when he said a health care bill provided millions for health maintenance organizations but did not include patient protections.
"He will be tied in with the Republicans in Congress," Mr. Devine said. "This is why he's having difficulty in Florida, after the Republican takeover, and it's why Gore is ahead there -- there's a perception that the Republicans in Washington have done some very bad things for programs that people rely on. This could be very damaging to Bush."
 
In His Own Words
AL GORE
Remarks yesterday at a rally in Macomb, Mich.:
"The Supreme Court is at stake. There are going to be three, maybe four -- somebody wrote this morning, maybe even five -- justices of the Supreme Court appointed by the next president of the United States. That means a majority on the court that will interpret our rights under the Constitution for the next 30 to 40 years. These young children here will have children of their own that will live under the interpretations of our Constitution determined by the election nine days from now. Think about it.
We want the Americans with disabilities to have rights in this country to participate in the mainstream. There is a 5-to-4 decision now pending in the Supreme Court that will be revisited by the next court that will determine whether or not the Americans With Disabilities Act survives or not.
Think about civil rights. Think about women's rights. Think about human rights. Think about antitrust law. Think about Federalism. All of these issues are on the ballot this Nov. 7."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Gores yesterday in East Lansing, Mich., on a day when Tipper Gore led the attack on her husband's rival. (Reuters)(pg. A1); A rally in East Lansing, Mich., was one of several campaign stops yesterday for Vice President Al Gore on a bus trip across the state. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (60%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MUSKEGON (MICH); MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (98%); MICHIGAN, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BLACKS PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); RELIGION (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); GORE, TIPPER; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOE LIEBERMAN (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



811 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2027 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Little Voter Movement In Race for Senate in New York

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and MARJORIE CONNELLY 

 BODY:
Despite three televised debates and a barrage of television advertisements and attacks, voter opinions about Hillary Rodham Clinton and Rick A. Lazio appear largely static as the candidates enter the final week of their contest, with Mrs. Clinton's prospects now very much dependent on the extent to which her supporters turn out to vote, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
The poll, taken Wednesday through Saturday, suggests that some of Mr. Lazio's central attacks on Mrs. Clinton in this final month of their Senate campaign have yet to take hold. Voters overwhelmingly said they believed that the first lady would do a better job at overhauling the health care system, even after a week of attacks in which Mr. Lazio raised her failed advocacy of a national health care plan in 1994. And a slight majority said Mrs. Clinton was the stronger advocate of Israel, despite Mr. Lazio's escalating attacks on her Middle East views at a time of increasing unrest in the region. 
 But voters were equally divided over which candidate would do a better job of improving the New York economy. Voters upstate, which is overwhelmingly Republican, gave Mr. Lazio a slight edge, despite Mrs. Clinton's persistent attempts to portray Mr. Lazio as unconcerned about upstate economic problems, most recently as she traveled across the region this weekend. And respondents to the poll also said Mr. Lazio deserved the credit for an agreement in the race to restrict campaign contributions, even though most said it would not influence how they voted.
Mrs. Clinton now has an eight-point lead over Mr. Lazio, 49 percent to 41 percent. That is statistically unchanged from the previous Times/CBS News Poll, taken in September, when Mrs. Clinton had a nine-point lead, 48 percent to 39 percent. When the latest poll was adjusted to take into account how undecided voters said they were leaning, Mrs. Clinton led Mr. Lazio by 52 percent to 44 percent.
The eight-point lead in the latest Times/CBS News Poll is relatively consistent with the findings of most public polls over the last month, and could explain both why Mr. Lazio was attacking Mrs. Clinton so intensely during the last debate, on Friday night, and the air of confidence that has settled in around Mrs. Clinton's camp in recent days.
Still, even with the margin suggested by this poll -- which would be considered wide by the standard of recent New York elections -- the results suggest abundant reasons for concern by Mrs. Clinton and hope for Mr. Lazio as they enter the last eight days of their contest.
Mr. Lazio's supporters seem much more likely to turn out on Election Day, driven less by an allegiance to the Republican Senate candidate and more by their dislike of Mrs. Clinton; 25 percent of Mr. Lazio's supporters cited their dislike of Mrs. Clinton in explaining their choice, compared with just 6 percent of Mrs. Clinton's supporters who said they were motivated to vote against Mr. Lazio.
What is more, if it appears that Vice President Al Gore is going to win New York easily -- this poll suggests that he is 21 points ahead of George W. Bush in New York, 52 percent to 31 percent -- then Democrats may not bother to turn out in the numbers Mrs. Clinton needs to win the race. If the percentage of voter turnout falls near 45 percent, then Mrs. Clinton's edge in the Times/CBS News Poll shrinks to just a few percentage points.
Mrs. Clinton is clearly concerned about Democrats turning out on her behalf, and she spent much of yesterday urging supporters to be sure to vote a week from Tuesday, beginning with an appearance at two churches with predominantly black congregations in Buffalo. The poll found that Mrs. Clinton had the support of nearly 9 out of 10 black New Yorkers.
Most analysts also believe that a majority of the undecided voters will end up supporting Mr. Lazio, because at this point they know so much about her that there is little left that she can tell them that would sway their vote. Mr. Lazio's senior strategist, Mike Murphy, made that point last night in arguing that the findings were bad for Mrs. Clinton, notwithstanding the lead suggested in the numbers.
"Upstate, not a single undecided voter is going to vote for her," he said. "We're moving up every day, and our own polls show it even closer."
Mrs. Clinton's pollster, Mark Penn, disputed that argument, asserting that after five months in the race and extensive spending by Mr. Lazio on television advertisements, voters were as familiar with the Republican congressman from Suffolk County as they were with Mrs. Clinton.
"People know about him and who he is, and they know about her and who she is," Mr. Penn said. "The undecideds are people who are still holding back from both of them, and are likely to break pretty evenly."
The poll was of 995 registered voters, of whom 871 are considered likely to vote. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
The peculiarities of this particularly race aside, the poll for the most part suggests that Mr. Lazio has had difficulty in finding ways to gain traction against Mrs. Clinton. His long-planned assault on Mrs. Clinton's role in the health care legislation, which Mr. Lazio's aides have for months predicted would be devastatingly effective, has not caught on, perhaps because the candidate chose to begin the attack in the middle of the World Series, when campaign coverage was overshadowed.
One in two respondents said Mrs. Clinton's role in what she herself has acknowledged as a legislative debacle made no difference in their decision on how to vote; nearly one in four said it made them more likely to vote for her.
"What she had to say at the time about health care reform made a lot of sense," Bruce Gronich, 41, a Democrat and an architect from Plainview, N.Y., said in a follow-up interview. "She was trying to do the right thing."
But Donald Hoffman, 72, a sales manager from Queens, who does not identify himself with either party, echoed some of the criticism that Mr. Lazio has voiced in recent days. "I felt she was out of line in that it was a government function, not the function of an individual, even though she is the first lady," he said. "It was an unauthorized act and she should not have been doing that. I think it was a grab for power for her."
Similarly, the issue that Mr. Lazio adopted as a flagship issue a month ago -- trying to force a ban on the use of so-called soft money for commercials -- seems to have won him more good will than actual support from voters. Nearly 80 percent of respondents said the ban was a good idea, and about 40 percent said Mr. Lazio deserved the credit for it, notwithstanding Mrs. Clinton's claim that she first proposed the idea. But nearly half the respondents said that would not influence their vote at all.
Mr. Lazio's attempt to invoke Mario M. Cuomo, the Democratic governor who lost a bid for a fourth term in 1994, to discredit Mrs. Clinton also seems problematic. Statewide, only 22 percent of New Yorkers said they had an unfavorable opinion of Mr. Cuomo, who has been out of public life for six years; upstate, that figure is only 28 percent.
On Israel, an issue that Mr. Lazio has made central to his campaign in an attempt to undercut Mrs. Clinton's standing among Jews, 50 percent of respondents said Mrs. Clinton would be a strong supporter of Israel in the Senate, while 44 percent said the same thing about Mr. Lazio. Seven in 10 respondents who said they were Jewish said they supported Mrs. Clinton.
Since the last Times/CBS News Poll, Mr. Lazio appears to have made up some ground with suburban women, among whom he had been trailing in September. Now, he is leading her among those voters by 48 percent to 38 percent. The previous poll was taken shortly after their first debate, in which Mr. Lazio walked across the stage and demanded that Mrs. Clinton sign a pledge to ban the use of soft money, a move that several analysts suggested was too aggressive and might hurt him among female voters.
Mr. Lazio is leading Mrs. Clinton in the suburbs by 51 percent to 39 percent. But he continues to have trouble in Republican upstate, which should be his stronghold: the poll found that he was ahead there 50 percent to 40 percent. Mr. Lazio probably must win at least 55 percent of the upstate vote to counteract Mrs. Clinton's advantage in New York City, where she is winning 7 of 10 votes.
Mrs. Clinton seems to be enjoying some success with the issues she has raised to date. While Mr. Lazio has sought to connect Mrs. Clinton to Mr. Cuomo, she has moved to link her opponent to Newt Gingrich, the Republican former House speaker. Mr. Gingrich is much more disliked than Mr. Cuomo: one in two New Yorkers have an unfavorable view of Mr. Gingrich.
The poll also found that nearly half the respondents think that Mrs. Clinton was "doing a better job of discussing the issues that are important to the campaign," compared with nearly one-third who said the same thing about Mr. Lazio. That is the kind of measure that politicians watch closely, because in recent years, candidates who are perceived as spending more time talking about the issues rather than attacking their opponents tend to do well in elections.
"Personal character attacks are just a way of deflecting you from the substance of real issues," said Risa Dimm, 50, a business owner from Livingston, N.Y., who said she was likely to vote for Mrs. Clinton.
Democrats have tried to suggest that Mr. Lazio does not have the stature to serve as a United States senator. The poll suggests that those attacks have not had much success: 56 percent said they believed that Mr. Lazio had the "maturity and experience" to be a senator, compared with 66 percent who said the same thing about Mrs. Clinton.
Finally, in a bit of good news for Mrs. Clinton, it seems that the first lady continues to be having some success in responding to concerns about where she is from. In this poll, 61 percent of respondents -- the highest so far -- said it made no difference to them where she was born.
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll of New York State is based on telephone interviews conducted Wednesday to Saturday with 1,255 adults throughout the state. Of those, 995 said they were registered to vote. Interviews were conducted in English or Spanish.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges across the state. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and the number of telephone lines into the residence, and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic regions of the state, race, Hispanic origin, sex, age, and education.
In addition, the question about voting preferences and other aspects of the 2000 election for the United States Senate are based on the responses of likely voters, weighted to a probable electorate on the basis of intention to vote, attention to the campaign, and past voting behavior, further weighted so that those who reside in New York City make up 31 percent of the entire state, which is the city's typical share of total ballots cast on Election Day.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adult residents of New York State. For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger. As an example, for the 871 likely voters, weighted to a probable electorate of 667, it is plus or minus four percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions can lead to somewhat varying results.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New York Voters on the Candidates"
Voters who . . .
Have a favorable opinion of the candidate
CLINTON: 50%
LAZIO: 37%
 
Have an unfavorable opinion
CLINTON: 33
LAZIO: 28
 
No opinion
CLINTON: 17
LAZIO: 35
 
Voters who say the candidate . . .
Has maturity and experience
CLINTON: 66
LAZIO: 56
 
Cares about people like you
CLINTON: 62
LAZIO: 51
 
Has the right kind of experience
CLINTON: 54
LAZIO: 58
 
Has honesty and integrity
CLINTON: 51
LAZIO: 53
 
Which candidate . . .
Would make decisions you would agree with about Supreme Court nominees
CLINTON: 58
LAZIO: 43
 
Would do a better job working to reform the health care system
CLINTON: 58
LAZIO: 31
 
Would be a strong supporter of Israel
CLINTON: 50
LAZIO: 44
 
Is discussing issues that are important to the campaign
CLINTON: 47
LAZIO: 29
 
Would do a better job getting along with and working with other Senators
CLINTON: 45
LAZIO: 42
 
Would do a better job to improve the New York State economy
CLINTON: 44
LAZIO: 43
 
Deserves credit for the soft money ban
LAZIO: 23
CLINTON: 42
 
Based on telephone interviews conducted Oct. 25-28 with 995 registered
voters throughout New York State. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) CBS CORP (91%); REPUBLICAN SENATE (75%); NEW YORK (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN SENATE (75%); NEW YORK (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; DEBATING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TELEVISION; POLITICAL ADVERTISING POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); TRENDS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); HEALTH CARE (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (54%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; CONNELLY, MARJORIE; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



812 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 3617 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: WORLD VIEWS/A special report.;
Rivals Differ On U.S. Role In the World

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 29

 BODY:
If elected president, Al Gore says he will use America's military power to halt Bosnia-style massacres, its economic influence to press failing states to adopt democracy, and the carrot of trade accords to encourage adoption of Western-style labor and environmental standards.
Yet when asked in a recent interview how he would deal with all the festering resentments that American power engenders around the world, he paused for a moment and uttered two words: "Strategic humility." He smiled at the phrase as he coined it, but never elaborated on how it would mesh with his interventionist inclinations. 
 George W. Bush, in contrast, argues that an overextended American military should gradually pull out of the Balkans -- a step that the Europeans view as abandonment. He insists on charging ahead with a national missile defense system -- which Russia and China have vowed to defeat by building up new nuclear forces to overwhelm defensive interceptors.
Yet Mr. Bush, asked in the second presidential debate to describe his philosophy for projecting American power, sounded startlingly like Mr. Gore. "If we are an arrogant nation, they will resent us," he said. "If we're a humble nation, but strong, they'll welcome us."
At a moment of unchallenged American primacy, it is understandable that both candidates want to convince the rest of the world that they would step lightly. Beneath their words, however, lie very different priorities, and probably very different styles, in managing America's relations with both allies and enemies.
In his debate performances, interviews and speeches on foreign and economic policy, the vice president has repeatedly portrayed himself as a man who has come to believe in vigorous American intervention abroad, a reversal of Democratic philosophy for most of the time since the end of the war in Vietnam.
He describes how the experience of seeing the Clinton administration move too slowly to end the killing in Bosnia drove him to conclude that America must be prepared to prevent disaster, and how two successive global financial crises reshaped his understanding of the central role economic stability must play in the foreign policy agenda.
Mr. Bush has woven a middle ground between two battling factions of his party -- internationalists who support engagement with great powers like China and isolationists who are deeply suspicious of the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization.
Drawing on the advice of Gen. Colin L. Powell, widely viewed as a potential secretary of state in a Bush administration, Mr. Bush is far more tentative about committing American troops and rules out their use for what he dismisses as nation building. "There may be some moments when we use our troops as peacekeepers, but not often," he said in the final presidential debate. In the second debate he suggested a broader philosophical disagreement with Mr. Gore: "I'm not so sure the role of the United States is to go around the world and say, 'This is the way it's got to be.' "
Any comparison of foreign policy between the two candidates is inherently unbalanced: Mr. Gore has a long record, in the Senate and as vice president, while during Mr. Bush's time as governor, his only real foreign focus has been Mexico, whose long border with Texas is a major matter of state and local politics.
Mr. Gore is always eager to mention his extensive dealings with foreign leaders and to analyze international events; he granted an hour-long interview for this article.
Mr. Bush took four weeks to consider repeated invitations to be interviewed on his foreign policy views. In the end he declined.
 
Seeing the World From Texas
The Texas governor has traveled frequently to Mexico, and says that as president he would focus on Latin America far more intensively than the Clinton Administration. But beyond those trips Mr. Bush, now 54, has left America's shores only three times in his adult life. He spent five or six weeks in China in 1975, on a break from graduate school when his father was American envoy to Beijing. When his father was president, he led an American delegation to the Gambia for a celebration of the country's independence.
In 1998, when he was considering a run for the presidency, he visited his daughter in Italy and then joined other governors on a tour of the Middle East. He stopped in Egypt and met President Hosni Mubarak, then went on to Israel, where he met the current prime minister, Ehud Barak and toured the West Bank with Ariel Sharon, a hard-liner now in negotiations about creating an emergency government with Mr. Barak.
The Bush campaign also provided a list of 150 foreign officials Mr. Bush has met with in Texas and elsewhere, mostly diplomats and trade officials, but also representatives of Russian energy firms. He saw the foreign minister of Russia, Igor Ivanov, this year.
Mr. Bush's aides say these meetings have left him at least as well prepared for the presidency as three past governors: Bill Clinton, Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter. Nonetheless, Mr. Bush makes foreign policy by committee, and prefers to have his coterie of advisers answer all the questions.
Mr. Gore's eagerness to place America's imprint on the world has clearly grown in his seven years in the vice presidency, which have featured dozens of trips abroad and many meetings with world leaders. White House advisers recall him making an impassioned plea to President Clinton in the summer of 1995 to threaten bombing Serbian forces after they overran a United Nations safe area in Bosnia, a moment that one aide said was now "seared on the front of Al Gore's brain." The former United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor, recalls bringing Mr. Gore to meetings about how to confront Japan on opening its economy "so that I would sound like only the second-most vociferous guy in the room."
What Mr. Bush derides as nation building, Mr. Gore calls a natural evolution, decades later, of the Marshall Plan -- when American willpower and capital, and some American troops, helped rebuild Europe.
That difference was accentuated this month when Mr. Bush's chief foreign policy adviser, Condoleezza Rice, said the Republican contender would, if elected, gradually pull the remaining American troops out of the Balkans, after consulting with NATO allies. That prompted Mr. Gore and Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright to shoot back that Mr. Bush would squander a nascent American victory in rebuilding the former Yugoslavia, where there are now some 11,400 troops, less than 20 percent of the total peacekeeping presence in Bosnia and Kosovo.
Lurking just beneath the surface of that dispute are questions that both candidates have left unanswered. Mr. Bush has never defined what kind of mission is in the "vital national interest." Mr. Gore has never said how long he would keep troops in place to build a democratic state. Mr. Bush, in short, won't say when he'll wade into a crisis, and Mr. Gore won't say when he'll get out.
These positions reflect, in many ways, the advisers who surround the two men. Mr. Gore depends heavily on Leon Fuerth, his national security aide for two decades, who urged him to break with the Democrats and vote for going to war with Iraq in 1991. Richard Holbrooke, the United Nations ambassador, supported Mr. Gore's ill-fated run for the presidency in 1988, a political risk one aide says "the vice president has not forgotten." He is often mentioned as candidate for secretary of state. And Mr. Gore has grown closer to Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, the architect of the Clinton administration's biggest financial interventions, from the Mexican bailout to the Asian crisis.
Mr. Bush relies heavily on Ms. Rice and a large cast of other graduates of his father's administration. Their influence is evident: Long before Mr. Bush ever criticized the International Monetary Fund, another close adviser, former Secretary of State George P. Shultz, said it should be shut down.
Both candidates insist that they would never seek to throw America's weight around. When it serves their purposes, though, each is quick to jettison his commitment to American humility.
Mr. Bush has made it clear that he will go ahead with a missile defense shield no matter what America's allies think -- and despite the harm it might inflict on America's fundamental relationships with Russia and China. Mr. Gore has repeatedly expressed a desire to incorporate environmental and labor rules in every future trade accord -- even though poorer nations view that as an unvarnished effort to assure that developing nations remain less competitive with American manufacturers.
 
Gore and Globalization
Not surprisingly, Mr. Gore tries to portray himself as the candidate best prepared to delve into the newest and most complex territory of foreign affairs, the challenges of economic globalization. The vice president's aides whisper that Mr. Bush's advisers are lost in the thicket of 1980's era problems, and are unprepared for a world in which global capital flows can cause as much havoc as global arms sales.
In a speech last spring in Boston, Mr. Gore charged that his rival was "stuck in a cold war mindset," that "continues to view Russia and China primarily as present or future enemies." At one point he said that "Governor Bush's foreign policy is noticeably blank."
Mr. Gore has never repeated that charge, but his aides do what they can to sow doubts about Mr. Bush's competence as a potential world leader and a recent New York Times poll indicated that roughly half of American voters have their doubts on that score.
Mr. Bush's campaign officials say that in the second presidential debate their candidate established himself as respectably conversant in the major international issues of the day. Mr. Bush himself was comfortable enough to joke shortly afterward about his trouble wrapping his tongue around the names of world leaders. "I was especially pleased that Mr. Milosevic has stepped down," he said after the Yugoslav leader bowed to a street revolt. "It's one less polysyllabic name for me to remember."
Mr. Gore, in his interview, showed that he indeed has absorbed seven years of daily intelligence briefings -- and that he can name names with ease. He spoke with authority about the differences between the separatist movements in two parts of Indonesia, and discussed what kind of opposition movements in Iraq the United States could exploit to help unseat Saddam Hussein.
But Mr. Gore frequently passes up opportunities to describe a sweeping vision of how he would position the United States in the world. Mr. Clinton, by contrast, has mastered that patter, rarely missing a chance to draw the link between economic integration and the spread of capitalism and democracy.
 
Managing the Nuclear Rivals
China and Russia are huge powers in the midst of huge transitions, whose weaknesses and strengths pose some of Washington's biggest challenges. In either nation, an economic collapse or a military buildup could cause tremendous instability, not only in Asia and Europe, but around the world.
Yet those challenges have hardly been discussed in the final months of the campaign, for different reasons on each side.
Mr. Gore knows Asia well. He talks about his priorities there more crisply than many of his foreign policy advisers do. (Sometimes, in fact, he is too crisp: When he backed anti-government protesters in Malaysia two years ago, using their rallying cry of "reformasi," in a speech, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad deftly used the moment to whip up a nationalist backlash against America that squashed the reform movement.)
But as one of his informal advisers says, "all the imagery is bad for him" in Asia. Raising broad visions of how to deal with China, for example, invites the Bush campaign to play up the photos of Mr. Gore bowing at the Buddhist temple in California that became the subject of lengthy campaign finance investigation. (The temple was linked to Taiwan, not China, but such subtleties are lost in campaigns.)
So Mr. Gore's campaign has indicated that he would continue in the Clinton mode of using economic ties to encourage China to greater openness, democracy and capitalism. But as China's leaders have stepped up the arrest of political and religious dissidents in the last year, Mr. Bush has homed in on the Clinton administration's oratory about a "strategic relationship" with Beijing. (Mr. Gore does not use that term.)
"China is a competitor, not a strategic partner," Mr. Bush often says. And he has indicated that he would sharply depart from the Clinton script in two ways: by pursuing the national missile defense, which China vigorously opposes and would counter with more and better intercontinental missiles, and perhaps by announcing a break with longstanding policy and pledging that the United States would come to Taiwan's aid if it was attacked by China.
Previous presidents have left that commitment vague, and critics warn that an explicit security guarantee would antagonize China while increasing the risk that Taiwan would take steps toward independence. Such moves, in turn, could increase chances of a conflict with the mainland.
There has been more talk about Russia, where Mr. Gore played a leading role, though a commission he co-chaired with former Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin. Mr. Gore knew from the outset that an active role in guiding Russia toward a new role in the world would distinguish him from any potential rival for the presidency. And the effort had some early successes, including an agreement to return to Russia the nuclear weapons that had been stationed in Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan. But American hopes of guiding economic reforms went off-track, and recent disclosures indicate that Mr. Gore failed to get Russia to halt arms sales to Iran by this year.
Mr. Bush argues that the administration was naive, "focusing our aid and attention on a corrupt and favored elite" that sometimes failed to fulfill promises made to Mr. Gore. "When Bill Clinton compared Boris Yeltsin in Chechnya to Abraham Lincoln, what signal did that send to states around Russia's periphery?" asks Ms. Rice, a Russia expert. "When the Russians didn't follow the favorable and attractive script we wrote for them, we continued to pretend they were carrying out their part of the bargain. They lost respect for us as a result."
(While Mr. Clinton in 1996 did make a glancing comparison of the Chechnya rebellion to the Civil War, he also said then that "a free country has to have a free association" and Russia would have to find "a diplomatic solution.")
Mr. Bush has offered only generalities about how he would handle Russia differently, and has never said how he would persuade Moscow to accept the missile defense system that could require quitting the Antiballistic Missile Treaty. (Ms. Rice says that Mr. Bush would review "the size of the American arsenal," and perhaps reduce it).
On the Middle East, Mr. Bush has gone to some lengths not to criticize Mr. Clinton's handling of a volatile and deteriorating situation -- at least not directly. And Mr. Gore has been almost completely uninvolved in managing the failed Camp David talks and diplomacy that followed -- until he flew back to Washington 10 days ago to sit in on the meetings planning Mr. Clinton's summit meeting with Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, and Mr. Barak.
Indirectly, though, Mr. Bush has thrown a few jabs. "You can't put the Middle East peace process on our timetable," he said in a not-so-subtle suggestion that Mr. Clinton rushed into Camp David in hopes of a comprehensive agreement before he left office.
Both candidates are quick to tick off their criteria for sending America's troops to intervene. But ask them for their criteria for using taxpayer dollars to choke off a market crash or a global financial crisis -- the kind that struck Mexico in 1995, and Asia two years later, then spread around the world -- and specificity vanishes.
Mr. Bush stumbled when asked in the first debate how he would handle a stock market crisis -- and then announced that he would summon his top advisers.
Mr. Gore pointed to Robert E. Rubin, the former treasury secretary, in the audience, a man regarded in Washington and on Wall Street as a cool manager of such crises. He seemed to suggest that he would call his old friend -- now a top executive at Citigroup -- and then he changed the subject. "He clearly wasn't prepared for that one," one of his close economic advisers said.
In his interview, Mr. Gore was similarly vague about his standards for economic intervention. "I'm not sure there is a handy cookie cutter on that one," he said. "I think there are so many variables that you have to know it when you see it."
He referred an interviewer to Mr. Summers, who said that he would recommend using America's financial might to right another country if "there was a material impact on the U.S. economy or the global economy," provided the loans came with conditions to assure reform in the country getting assistance, "a credible assurance we will be repaid" and a "prospect of success in restoring market confidence."
Ms. Rice said in an interview that Mr. Bush's first criteria for bailing out a foreign nation would be "whether the countries we are helping have the political will to make economic reforms." Clearly Russia in 1998 -- a bailout Mr. Gore helped coordinate -- did not fit her test. Other Bush aides tick off economic criteria closely parallel to that of Mr. Summers.
 
Bush and the I.M.F.
Mr. Bush is more leery of the role of the International Monetary Fund. "I think a lot of times we just spend aid and say we feel better about it and it ends up being spent the wrong way," he said in the second presidential debate. He charged that the fund -- which the United States effectively controls as its largest shareholder -- often sends the message to international bankers that "if you make a bad loan, we'll bail you out."
He also charged that much of the $4.8 billion lent to Russia in 1998 ended up "in the pockets" of Mr. Chernomyrdin. Mr. Chernomyrdin denied it, threatening to sue Mr. Bush for defamation. The I.M.F. says independent auditors have found no evidence that the money was diverted, and the Bush campaign has cited no evidence to back up the charge.
Ms. Rice insisted that Mr. Bush's broader point was correct. "Once the Russians were flaunting it, cooking the books, and once their privatization effort went awry, we kept pumping I.M.F. money in," she said. "That weakened the I.M.F., and it allowed the Russians to have a kind of drug on which they became dependent. It was a mistake. A big one."
Economic sanctions create a sticky problem for both candidates. Mr. Gore defends the slow lifting of sanctions against North Korea, saying, "Incredibly enough, we have seen a positive response to initiatives there," but refuses to consider trying the same approach on Cuba. "I'm a hard-liner on Castro," he said, ticking off the Cuban leader's list of offenses, and ignoring a similarly long list for North Korea.
Cuba, of course, is a highly emotional issue in Florida, whose 25 electoral votes are hotly contested. So Mr. Bush has taken a similarly tough line. But he has also distanced himself from the views of his running mate, Dick Cheney. In 1998, while running Halliburton, the oil services company, Mr. Cheney said unilateral sanctions almost always fail and hurt the competitiveness of American businesses. He called for lifting sanctions on Iran, saying the United States could no longer rely on them "as a club that we can use to punish those who disagree with policies or goals or objectives of the United States." Mr. Bush has said pointedly that he is not ready to lift sanctions on Iran.
 
Free Traders, but Not Always
Everyone in this race is a free trader. Except, of course, when campaigning in Michigan or West Virginia, or anywhere else where overseas competition seems a mixed blessing, threatening old jobs even as it creates new markets for American goods.
Mr. Gore is accustomed to weaving between his free-trading boss and the labor unions that make up his core support. Those unions have opposed every major free trade initiative by the administration, from the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993 to the China trade bill that passed last month, and some threatened to bolt from Mr. Gore. In the end, they backed down.
This year, Mr. Gore backed the China trade legislation, just as he backed the North American trade pact in 1993. It did not include standards for protecting workers or preserving the environment that he said in his interview he would, if elected, try to get included in all trade negotiations. A free trade agreement with Jordan, signed by Mr. Clinton last week, is the first to include all of those standards in the core of the accord.
Mr. Bush insists that he would aggressively press new accords -- without labor and environmental provisions -- and expand the North American pact to include much of the rest of Latin America.
In short, he sounds like a true free-trader. Yet in coal country, Mr. Bush has also bent over backward to draw in union workers who have become disaffected with Mr. Gore. Earlier this month he visited a coal-rich area of West Virginia, and was introduced by a laid-off miner who is president of a United Mine Workers local. "This is an administration that fears coal," he said. "They see it as a threat. I see it as an opportunity to make us less dependent on big, foreign oil."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 6, 2000, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Monday with an article comparing the foreign policy views of Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush misstated the year President Ronald Reagan sent troops to stabilize Lebanon. It was 1982, not 1984.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A United States Army tank entered Bosnia on Dec. 31, 1995. (Associated Press); In 1992, United States Marines patrolled an area of disputed territory in Somalia's capital. (Associated Press); United States Marines guarded the wrecked U.S. Embassy annex in Aukar, Lebanon on Sept. 22, 1984. (Associated Press)(pg. A16)
 
Chart: "The Candidates on Using Force Abroad"
In their second debate, Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore were given a list of United States military interventions -- in the case of Rwanda, a nonintervention -- over the last 20 years and asked to say whether they approved. Here are excerpts from their responses.
 
GRENADA -- In October 1983, President Reagan sent an invasion force to the tiny Caribbean island, saying American medical students there were in danger after a Marxist junta seized power. GORE -- "I supported that." BUSH -- "Yes."
 
LEBANON -- In 1984, President Reagan sent 1,200 troops to help stabilize Lebanon. GORE -- "I thought that was a mistake." BUSH -- "Yes."
 
PANAMA -- In December 1989, President Bush sent troops to oust Gen. Manuel Noriega after reports of his involvement in drug trafficking and corruption. GORE -- "I supported that one." BUSH -- "Yes."
 
IRAQ -- In 1991, President Bush deployed 500,000 troops to contest Iraq's invasion of neighboring Kuwait. GORE -- "Yes, I voted for it, supported it." BUSH -- "Yes."
 
SOMALIA -- In December 1992, President Bush sent American troops to Somalia to deliver food aid to alleviate a famine. In President Clinton's first months in office, the military mission there changed course and focused on forcing the military warlord, Gen. Muhammad Farah Aidid, out of office. GORE -- "I think that was ill-considered. I did support it at the time." BUSH -- "Started off as a humanitarian mission and then changed into a nation-building mission, and that's where the mission went wrong."
 
RWANDA -- Between April and July 1994 about 800,000 people were killed in a Hutu-led campaign of genocide against Tutsi. The United States effectively blocked the Security Council from taking significant military action to stop the killing. GORE -- "We were too late getting in there. We could have saved more lives if we had acted earlier." BUSH Said that the Clinton administration did the -- "right thing" in Rwanda. -- "It was a horrible situation. No one liked to see it on our -- on our TV screens."
 
HAITI -- In September 1994, President Clinton sent 20,000 troops to occupy Haiti to restore the elected government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. GORE -- "With chaos in a neighboring country, we did the right thing there." BUSH -- "I wouldn't have sent troops to Haiti. I didn't think it was a mission worthwhile."
 
BOSNIA -- In 1995, President Clinton ordered airstrikes in conjunction with NATO against Bosnian Serb targets in Bosnia as part of the effort to bring the Serbs to the Dayton peace negotiations and end the war. After the agreement, Mr. Clinton sent 20,000 American troops as part of a NATO peacekeeping force. GORE -- "Yes." BUSH -- "Yes."
 
KOSOVO -- In 1999, American pilots, with NATO allies, attacked Serbia in a war to force Slobodan Milosevic to stop the repression of the majority ethnic Albanian population in Kosovo. About 6,000 American troops serve in Kosovo as part of a NATO peacekeeping force. GORE -- "Yes." BUSH Said he supported the war but added that he wanted to encourage the European allies to take over all of the peacekeeping responsibilities in Kosovo. (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SOMALIA (93%); RWANDA (93%); HAITI (93%); LEBANON (93%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PANAMA (79%); GRENADA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); VIET NAM (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; UNITED NATIONS; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (84%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; UNITED NATIONS; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (84%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; TEXAS; ; UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SOMALIA (93%); RWANDA (93%); HAITI (93%); LEBANON (93%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PANAMA (79%); GRENADA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); VIET NAM (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (73%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (68%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); SANGER, DAVID E AL GORE (94%); BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000



813 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 7; Column 2; Health & Fitness 

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: Major Medical Mystery: Why People Avoid Doctors

BYLINE: By RANDI HUTTER EPSTEIN 

 BODY:
Janet Grillo eats organic food, does not smoke or drink and keeps abreast of the latest health news. Yet Ms. Grillo, a 41-year-old independent film producer in Los Angeles, cannot remember the last time she had a complete physical exam, probably when her mother took her to a pediatrician.
"If I'm feeling sick, it's echinacea and early to bed. I think part of the reason I never go is because I get a yearly gynecologic exam and mistake that for accounting for all of my key organs," Ms. Grillo said. "I know it doesn't make sense, but who has time? My own health care lags far behind that of my son." 
 Hank Norman's track record is not much better. Mr. Norman, 33, a television producer in New York City, avoided doctors for years until his new girlfriend insisted that he get a checkup for sexually transmitted diseases. "I guess I grew up with the mentality that your body heals itself and it's a sign of weakness to go to a doctor," he said.
Dr. Wende Logan-Young, a breast cancer specialist, says her own mother-in-law hid a breast lump for five years, until cancer killed her. "When she found the lump, she did not tell anyone and stopped going to her internist," said Dr. Logan-Young, director of the Elizabeth Wende Breast Clinic in Rochester. "I would say to her, 'Why don't you come in for a mammogram?' But she would just change the subject. It wasn't until she had severe diarrhea and lost 15 pounds that her husband, an internist, forced her to see a doctor. By that time, she was diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer that had spread to her colon. She died six months later."
Paradoxically, at a time when consumers are bombarded with more health information than ever before -- much of it urging early detection and preventive care -- stories like these are increasingly common. Nobody knows how many people put off medical visits or whether it is harmful for most people. There are no national statistics tracking delays in care. But public health experts agree that scores of people who have money, health insurance and access to good medical centers are choosing not to go for checkups. To be sure, there are those who run to the doctor for every sniffle, but there is a whole other group that simply never goes.
And now, a few sociologists and clinicians, aiming to bolster preventive services, are trying to figure out why so many people are reluctant to see a doctor. They are studying very different groups: those like Ms. Grillo who do not have the time or feel the necessity and those like Dr. Logan-Young's mother-in-law, who apparently cannot bear the possibility of grim news.
So what is the barrier? Are people flooded with so much health information that they feel no need to go in person when they can easily click to a dot.com doctor? Are they frightened by the medical horror stories on the evening news? Or are they just too busy juggling work and children to make an appointment for every ache?
All of the above, and more. Recent studies have shown that people who know they have health-endangering vices (like smoking or drinking) put off appointments because they do not want a healthy-living lecture. Others do not go because they feel doomed despite medical treatment. At the other extreme are the overly optimistic who are convinced they will get better no matter what. And then there are those who are embarrassed to discuss their symptoms, such as incontinence or impotence.
The bottom line for many people is fear: fear of bad news, fear of an uncomfortable test, fear of discussing something intimate.
And the reason for this dread of the doctor, experts say, has much to do with the breakdown of doctor-patient relationships. Few people nowadays have an old-fashioned family practitioner, the physician who is also friend and confidant.
The American College of Physicians-American Society of Internal Medicine recommends annual medical visits for everyone beginning at the age of 40. Yearly visit for younger adults is probably not cost-effective, but checkups are helpful, said Dr. William J. Hall, president-elect of the physicians' association. "It behooves everyone," said Dr. Hall, who is also chief of the general medicine unit at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester, "to have a database of health information assembled. It's more like insurance than going because a doctor is likely to find something."
The biggest danger, he said, is to go with a new complaint to a new doctor, who may not put the symptoms in the right context.
Many doctors interviewed blamed managed care for chasing patients away, pointing to overburdened physicians with no time to listen to patients and to patients uncomfortable talking to their assigned doctors.
Though patients tend to show up for prepaid physicals, many health experts wonder whether they are revealing all of their symptoms or health concerns.
"The whole idea of the fee used to be an excuse; that was one of the reasons H.M.O.'s were set up, to remove the barrier so people wouldn't delay (medical visits), but it hasn't helped as much as it might," said Dr. Edward Krupat, a professor of psychology at the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences in Boston. "A lot of people are treated in a clinic model where you see a different person each time, and they may not feel comfortable with that practitioner."
Others say the problem has more to do with today's transient society. People change jobs, and insurance plans, forcing them to switch doctors.
"The stability of the doctor-patient relationship, which is so much the core of trust, is not what it once was," said Dr. Robert J. Mayer, professor at Harvard Medical School and vice chairman for academic affairs at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute. "That is a reflection not just on economics but on changing society. People move; doctors move; and all of these factors, that perhaps in an 'Ozzie and Harriet' day would have been less likely to have taken place, are commonplace now."
Hank Norman, the television producer, says he no longer has a doctor he can turn to.
"I grew up in a small town in Maryland, and Dr. Roth was our family doctor," he said. "I remember calling him in the middle of the night. We called him if we stubbed our toe. Now it's an assembly line; I don't know the doctor, and he doesn't know me."
About one in three men and one in five women have no regular doctor, a survey of 4,350 Americans projected. Money was a big concern, but beyond that, denial and embarrassment played a role, particularly for men, said Karen Davis, the president of the Commonwealth Fund, the social and health care research foundation in New York City that paid for the survey.
Sonny Mehta, president and editor in chief of Random House's Knopf publishing group, had not seen a doctor for five years before having triple-bypass heart surgery in July. In an interview with a British newspaper, Mr. Mehta conceded that he avoided doctors because he knew they would discuss his years of "bad living."
"I've always had a good time," Mr. Mehta said, "maybe too good of a time."
Previous studies have shown that if patients are unable to express their concerns to a doctor they are not likely to follow the doctor's advice or return for further checkups, said Dr. Samuel Putnam, an internist in Boston and co-author of "The Medical Interview." He pointed to a study by Dr. Richard Frankel and colleagues that found most doctors interrupted patients 18 seconds into an interview. The findings were published in 1984 in The Annals of Internal Medicine.
A study of 10,000 patients at the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program in Oakland, Calif., found that those who chose their physician were more satisfied with their care and made more outpatient appointments, said Dr. Joe Selby, the director of research at the Oakland branch of Kaiser. The results were published in the November 1991, issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association.
Now Dr. Selby is tracking 1,400 patients to "explore the best way to help people choose doctors so they will come when they need help and be compliant with their treatment."
"At least in the long run, you would expect a better health outcome," he said.
No one looks to be scolded about losing weight, smoking or drinking. One woman commented that her husband, a diabetic, had not been to a doctor in years because he had yet to lose 10 pounds that a doctor told him to shed.
"It's a challenge, but we have to be able to have a positive supportive relationship with patients without being judgmental or intimidating," said Dr. Leo Cooney, chief of general medicine at the Yale School of Medicine. "We have to help patients deal with problems, whether it be smoking, drinking or substance abuse without having a holier-than-thou attitude and condemn them."
Focus groups by the What to Expect Foundation, an organization providing prenatal and early childhood support to low-income women, found that the greatest barrier keeping the women from seeking free prenatal care was their substance abuse or smoking.
Dr. Lisa Cooper, an assistant professor at Johns Hopkins medical school, was prompted to investigate patient delays after a woman kept missing appointments and later admitted she was embarrassed to show up because she was an alcoholic.
Dr. Cooper then surveyed 963 people with ailments, including hypertension, diabetes, heart disease and cancer. She found that alcoholics were three times as likely as others to avoid regular care, and those with phobic disorders were about half as likely to return for treatment. She has yet to identify specific phobias involved or to explore why phobias prevent people from seeking treatment, but she speculates that they are more likely to fear bad news.
Gael Morse, 57, a writer from Rochester, said media campaigns about cancer backfired with her. She delayed getting a mammogram for six years. "I can't listen to that radio station anymore; there are so many cancer alerts," she said. "And there's been so much about breast cancer, I guess it made its mark on me. I know it's irrational, after my mammogram. Everyone told me everything is fine, but fear of cancer was such a big thing for me."
And that, said Dr. Mayer of Harvard, gets back to doctor-patient relationship. People need someone to calm their fears, who will not scold them for being less than perfect in health care, and who is available to answer seemingly minor questions, he said.
"There is so much a solid relationship can provide in terms of preventive health and the stresses we all face," said Dr. Mayer. "Breaking down the formal barriers allows people to open up."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hank Norman, left, a television producer in New York, felt it was "a sign of weakness to go to a doctor." Gael Morse, a writer from Rochester, feared getting a mammogram. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times); (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Medical Procrastination"
Medical conditions often go untreated because of various types of delay.
 
Diagram shows the steps toward receiving care and types of delay.
 
(Source: "Health Psychology: Biophysical Interactions," by Edward P. Sarafino)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); CANCER (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); BREAST CANCER (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (88%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (77%); PEDIATRICS (77%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (77%); BREAST CANCER SCREENING (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (72%); ONCOLOGY (71%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%); SOCIOLOGY (63%); 

PERSON: EPSTEIN, RANDI HUTTER JANET GRILLO (79%); WENDE LOGAN-YOUNG (64%); THE QUEEN MOTHER ELIZABETH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



814 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 6; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Scientists Glower as U.S. Scientists Play in Frozen North

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: ALERT, Nunavut

 BODY:
As Canadian soldiers hoist duffel bags from troop transports at a gravel airstrip here, a large red maple leaf signboard greets the new arrivals with the words, in English and French, "Proudly Canadian."
But even this military post in the Canadian Arctic, 2,700 miles north of the American border, cannot escape the southern neighbor's shadow. On maps, Canada's northernmost outpost is sandwiched between the Lincoln Sea and the United States Range, named by an American Navy mission in 1871. And even though Alert serves as a base for Canadian research into greenhouse gases and Arctic bird migrations, financing of science by the Canadian government is lagging in the rest of the Arctic, helping Americans to dominate northern scientific research at the top of the world. 
 "Canadian scientists are starting to resent what appears to be an American takeover of the Far North," Ed Struzik, a veteran reporter on the Arctic, warned last summer in The Edmonton Journal. He listed a series of American projects: fossil forest research on Axel Heiberg Island by a University of Pennsylvania team; a NASA project replicating Mars conditions in an asteroid crater on Devon Island; and the passage through Arctic waters this summer of a new United States Coast Guard cutter, the Healy.
A multidisciplinary panel of Canadian university professors sounded a similar theme this fall in their report, "A Crisis in Northern Research." To help Canada catch up, the professors called on Ottawa to finance 24 research chairs, 80 research fellowships and 70 new research projects dedicated to the Canadian Arctic.
But for some, Canada's latest interest is reactive, and half-hearted.
"Canada has always had a reactive interest in the Arctic -- this is the latest spasm," said Jerry Kobalenko, a visitor here who is writing a book on Ellesmere Island, Canada's last stop before the North Pole.
Ninety percent of Canadians live along their southern border. "Even though the Canadian public pretends it likes being an Arctic country, it is looking entirely southward," said Dr. Rob Huebert, associate director of the Center for Military and Strategic Studies at the University of Calgary.
Richard Weber, a polar skier who runs a travel business, Canadian Arctic Holidays, said: "Canadians live in a cold country, so they think, 'why go to the Arctic?' The average Canadian does not know a lot about the Arctic."
But just as predominantly coastal Brazilians tend to ignore the Amazon until someone else turns up there, Canadians focus on their vast backyard when outsiders seem to be interfering: proposing "internationalization" of the Arctic, proposing United Nations supervision of Native populations, or sending well-financed foreign scientific expeditions.
This summer, some Canadians groaned at the return of a University of Pennsylvania research team to an island west of here, where the previous summer they had taken samples from a mummified forest. Noting that the American team's budget was 100 times that of a rival Canadian team, the Edmonton newspaper published a photograph of a man lugging a huge chunk of wood from a hole, with the caption, "An American scientist removes a 45-million-year-old piece of wood last year from a fossil forest on Canada's Axel Heiberg Island."
Turning to the Arctic waters of the Northwest Passage, a maritime route claimed by Canada, James P. Delgado, executive director of the Vancouver Maritime Museum, wrote in Toronto's Globe and Mail newspaper, "Our northern frontier is ours thanks to the blood sacrifice the Arctic exacted from our explorers."
But, with warmer weather increasingly making commercial and scientific ship traffic a summer reality in the Arctic, some Canadian officials are taking less nationalistic stands. In an interview before stepping down as foreign minister in mid-October, Lloyd Axworthy, a Liberal member of Parliament, called for moving beyond the "standoff between the United States and Canada" over shipping rules in the Arctic. He called for a multilateral government group, like the Arctic Council, to set universal rules for safe shipping in all Arctic regions, whether in Russian, American, Canadian, Greenlandic or Norwegian waters.
Despite calls from Canadian professors and journalists, Ottawa has not chosen to increase research financing or to block outsiders from studying the Canadian Arctic. For the moment, Canadian Arctic research seems to be a matter of the ability to pay.
"You have to pay to play," said Dr. Kirk R. Johnson, curator of paleontology at the Denver Museum of Nature and Science, who has participated in American projects at the fossil forest and the crater site. "Science is full of people who have sour grapes, who didn't get the funds. If you do the research, if you publish the papers, you get the funding."
Stressing that most American polar research is in the Antarctic, Dr. Johnson conceded that Canada, with an economy less than one-tenth that of the United States, would always have a hard time matching American Arctic science budgets.
Here at Alert, a combined military and weather base, budget cuts and technological modernization have led Canadian forces to cut staffing by two-thirds over the last decade, to 69 men and women this winter. But even though this station needs 180 cargo flights of food and fuel to get through the long winter, Canadians are determined to keep the maple leaf flying on their northernmost tip.
"Physical occupation of land is the most important element of sovereignty -- you have to be there," said Col. Pierre LeBlanc, who stepped down in July as northern commander of the Canadian forces.
Early in the 20th century, Ottawa was stirred to explore the Arctic only after foreign intrusions. Americans mounted discovery missions. A Norwegian explorer tried to claim some islands for Norway. A Danish trader undiplomatically described this massive island, unpopulated at the time, as "no man's land."
In this century, new technology may bring a boom in Arctic mining and production of oil and gas. If the climate continues to grow warmer, the Northwest Passage could become a regular shortcut for freighters going from Europe to Asia.
Unfortunately for Canadian researchers, though, Canada pays $20 million a year to keep this base going for reasons more military than scientific. Ideal for intercepting Russian radio communications, this base, 507 miles south of the North Pole, is closer to Moscow than to Ottawa. Mr. Huebert described this polar station, bristling with antennas and far from urban radio pollution, as "a very clear listening point, like going to the top of a hill."
But in the 1990's, through automation and improved technology, the United States and Canada closed most of the staffed radar stations that once were strung across the Arctic. With half the staff and radar sites, military leaders say they now have better early warning capability than ever if Russian missiles ever come over the pole.
With Alert's power generators burning 60 gallons of airlifted diesel an hour, it is unclear how long Canada will keep so many people at a post that descends into five months of polar night every October.
As privatization spreads in Canada, some people wonder whether scientists and tourists could supplement soldiers in asserting modern sovereignty. At this base, the northernmost human settlement in the world, there are housing wings where bedrooms gather dust because their military occupants pulled out years ago.
With scientists increasingly interested in climate change and affluent tourists attracted by Ellesmere Island National Park, only 25 miles southwest of Alert, this base could defray costs by taking in nonmilitary visitors. The flow of scientists here is only a trickle, compared with what it could be.
"There clearly is a huge interest among the Canadian scientific community," Rick Boychuk, editor of Canadian Geographic magazine, said on a visit here. "I am sure there are entrepreneurs who would see great potential here, giving logistical support for scientists, as well the chance for tourists to take a very unique and original peak at the Arctic."
But Alert's soldiers, instilled with half a century of pride as the "frozen chosen," blanch at such a change in mission. Referring to the Department of National Defense, one major visiting here from Ottawa rolled her eyes and said: "D.N.D. is not in the business of running bed and breakfasts."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Canadian scientists are urging more research in the nation's far north, where conditions are difficult. Above, supply officers unload fuel for the station at Alert; below, wreckage of a plane that crashed there years ago. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 
Map of the Canadian Arctic highlighting Alert, Nunavut.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ARCTIC (97%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: NUNAVUT, CANADA (92%); MARS (75%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%); 

CITY: OTTAWA, ON, CANADA (57%); EDMONTON, AB, CANADA (57%); 

COMPANY: ON TOP OF THE WORLD INC (70%); US NAVY (57%); US COAST GUARD (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); US COAST GUARD (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (57%); US COAST GUARD (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); US COAST GUARD (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC REGIONS; CANADA; CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ARCTIC (97%); BRAZIL (79%); NUNAVUT, CANADA (92%); MARS (75%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%); OTTAWA, ON, CANADA (57%); EDMONTON, AB, CANADA (57%); 

SUBJECT: RESEARCH ARMED FORCES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); NAVIES (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (70%); SKIING (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (55%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



815 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Patching Up Morale at the World Trade Organization

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Oct. 30

 BODY:
Nearly a year after violent demonstrations in Seattle disrupted the World Trade Organization's meeting of ministers and shredded its image, the group's leader, Mike Moore, is still trying to pick up the pieces.
The public dissatisfaction over further trade liberalization without accompanying attention to openness and environmental, safety and labor issues frayed an organization already shaken by a divisive fight for its top job -- a post Mr. Moore took up just three months before the Seattle talks collapsed. 
 For governments both large and small, Seattle became a shorthand for failure to move toward more open world markets, the World Trade Organization's mission.
Rebuilding the image of the five-year-old, fast-growing group has preoccupied Mr. Moore and, some say, hobbled him during his first year as director general. Even critics go easy on him over the Seattle debacle, mostly because he was so new to the job. They say he will find that his greatest challenge will be getting a new round of global trade talks under way next year.
By all accounts, Mr. Moore, 51, who is from New Zealand, has labored mightily to restore confidence within the fractured ranks of the organization, which now has 138 member nations and seems to be expanding monthly. He has traveled extensively and has taken steps to assure the smaller members that their concerns are important and being addressed. Still, fissures between the large, industrialized nations and the developing countries that came to light during the leadership tussle and were widened by the Seattle debacle have been slow to close.
"He's tried to move away from the Green Room, and thrash out issues in the General Council," said Ireland's trade negotiator, Anne Anderson, using the nickname for closed-door sessions for invited diplomats. "But trying to move more transparently means things move more slowly."
Interviewed recently in his office overlooking Lake Geneva, Mr. Moore was philosophical, even resigned, seemingly girded for the long haul. Though looking tired and speaking in a gravelly voice, Mr. Moore displayed his folksy wit. "I said after Seattle that we'd be like a swan -- we'd hold our head up and pedal like mad underwater," he chuckled. Confidence was "pretty fragile" after Seattle, but "it's much stronger now," he said.
While China's impending entry to the W.T.O. has grabbed most of the limelight recently, Mr. Moore has been active in the traditional director general mode: smoothing the way behind the scenes.
Much of his attention has been focused on less glamorous matters. Negotiations on agriculture and on an array of services, including banking, insurance, tourism and communications, have begun, Mr. Moore said. Those talks were required by agreements forged in 1994 in the last global trade negotiations, known as the Uruguay Round.
The basic business of the organization, which also includes talks about electronic commerce and the arbitration of global trade disputes, "is bubbling away," he said, although he acknowledged that "all this sounds like modest stuff."
No one disputes that the W.T.O. had to be lifted out of its doldrums. But trade diplomats say that Mr. Moore now needs to focus on seeing that a new trade round is up and running. Their target date is next autumn's ministerial meeting.
"Due in no small part to his help, we've put the W.T.O. back into normal business," said Morocco's trade diplomat, Nacer Benjelloun-Touimi. "Now he needs to jump-start movement toward trade liberalization."
Part of the deal that secured Mr. Moore his job calls for the term to be split, cutting the time he has to show his stuff. Thailand's minister, Supachai Panitchpakdi, is set to take over in September 2002. Despite the bitter leadership race, Mr. Supachai has been circumspect in his remarks during Mr. Moore's tenure, and there is little doubt he will have a quieter style than the bluff Mr. Moore when his turn comes.
With the high-profile battle over globalization still raging, the organization has benefited from Mr. Moore's accessibility and communications skills -- his snappy one-liners that often help make trade abstractions concrete and relevant.
But skeptics say little has been done to make the trade forum's operations more open to the public.
Although Mr. Moore said he would like to do more, many developing countries fear that a fully accessible W.T.O. would leave them vulnerable to pressure from home-based interest groups. And Mr. Moore's ability to open closed-door sessions and give outsiders a chance to give their views in trade disputes -- two demands of nongovernmental organizations -- is controlled by the governments, which he likes to say are "the real owners" of the body.
There are also questions about Mr. Moore's leadership abilities, fueled in part by controversy earlier this year over the makeup of the W.T.O. secretariat. A plan floated by the director general's inner circle to ease out some of the European personnel, who dominate the administrative staff, and replace them with people who better reflect the W.T.O.'s diverse membership was greeted with fury, especially when European governments learned they would probably be asked to pay for the reorganization. The plan was quickly shelved.
Inside the organization's imposing headquarters building, morale is still low. "There's been a sense of treading water here since Seattle," one staff member said.
Employees complain that their work is increasingly hamstrung by a static budget. The budget is tightly tied to a complex formula involving inflation rates, including that of the biggest donor country, the United States, which contributes nearly 16 percent of the budget. It has edged up a few percentage points the last two years, to $74 million in 2000. Mr. Moore's staff is pushing for a large increase, 20 percent, for next year, citing the increased number of trade disputes. But the biggest contributors, which also include Canada, Japan and Germany, are likely to push for something more modest.
Some critics say Mr. Moore has paid too much attention to developing countries. He has, for instance, traveled to Africa half a dozen times. Some of his initiatives for the least-developed countries, including a program for technical assistance in trade matters, have not won support from the biggest trading powers.
Developing countries also want more time to carry out Uruguay Round commitments to protect intellectual property rights, bring investment policies into line with free-trade rules and align national regulations on animal and plant health and safety and food safety. Industrial countries say such a delay is an attempt to rewrite existing agreements.
Managing this diverse and fractious crowd is a huge challenge, and cajoling, the trademark of Mr. Moore's predecessor, Renato Ruggiero, is essential to the job. Some negotiators say Mr. Moore seems less able than earlier trade chiefs -- both Mr. Ruggiero, his only predecessor at the W.T.O., and leaders of the group's forerunner, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade -- to jump over hurdles at difficult negotiating junctures. Of course, trading nations used to be an exclusive, and tiny, group.
Mr. Moore does not expect the way ahead to be easy. "I'm used to public abuse now," he said.
"I've never believed the W.T.O. itself was the demon," he added, "but I know things could get even more nasty as we try to move into a new round" of global trade talks.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Moore, director general of the W.T.O., attended the organization's session last fall in Seattle, which has become a shorthand for failure. (Roo Hicks/Liaison/Newsmakers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (98%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE (WASH); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (98%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); LAKES (72%); 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH; MOORE, MIKE MIKE MOORE (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



816 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Spending Rise By Consumers In September

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30

 BODY:
Spending by the nation's consumers surged last month and federal farm payments increased incomes, suggesting demand for goods will grow in the months ahead, government figures showed today.
Purchases of automobiles and more expensive gasoline led the 0.8 percent rise in personal spending in September, the biggest gain in seven months, after a 0.5 percent increase in August, the Commerce Department reported. 
 An election-year package of farm aid pushed up incomes 1.1 percent in September, the biggest rise in 11 months, after incomes rose 0.4 percent in August.
"The key to growth is income, and households have the money to spend," said Joel L. Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa.
The September spending increase was the largest since a 1.2 percent gain in February. September's rise in incomes was the largest since a 1.3 percent gain in October 1999, also a result of farm subsidies.
President Clinton signed legislation in June that gave farmers $7.1 billion in aid to compensate for low grain and livestock prices. Of that, $5.5 billion was due to cotton and grain growers by Sept. 30. It was the third consecutive year of extra farm subsidies in addition to regularly scheduled payments. A spending bill that Mr. Clinton signed over the weekend provides an additional $3.5 billion in special aid.
Even with the income rise, Americans spent more than they earned in September. That produced the third straight month with a negative savings rate, a sign that consumer borrowing is propelling the economic expansion toward a record 10th anniversary in April.
Inflation picked up last month, the income and spending report showed. The personal consumption expenditures index, a measure watched by the Federal Reserve, rose 0.4 percent in September after showing no change in August. For the third quarter, the index rose at a 2.2 percent annual pace, close to the 2.1 percent rate in the second quarter, the government said last week.
After adjusting for inflation, spending rose 0.4 percent in September after rising 0.5 percent in August. Discounting farm payments, incomes rose 0.4 percent, the same as in August.
Spending on durable goods rose 1.5 percent in September, the biggest increase since spending rose 1.7 percent in February. That followed a rise of 0.6 percent in August. The government said this was due largely to sales of automobiles and parts. Auto sales rose last month at an annual pace of 17.9 million vehicles, the fastest since April, as cheaper imports and discounts on American-made vehicles attracted buyers.
Spending on services rose 0.7 percent without taking price changes into account, the same as the previous month.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Personal Income"
Chart shows total personal income in trillions of dollars, before taxes, at seasonally adjusted annual rates since April 1999.
 
Personal Income and Spending
Billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted annual rates.
 
Income
Sept.: $8,425.1
Change from Aug.: +1.1%
 
Consumption
Sept. 6,865.5
Change from Aug.: +0.8
(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; INCOME AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); CONSUMPTION (79%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); SAVINGS RATES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (52%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



817 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Is All Smiles, And Bewildered by It All

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Oct. 27

 BODY:
It is impossible for any outsider to know exactly why North Korea has changed its tack so dramatically in recent months, inviting old enemies from South Korea and the United States to the capital, Pyongyang, and toasting them lavishly.
But it was clear last week that the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, had impressed his long-skeptical guests as someone Washington could work with when he made a quip to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright about cooperation on missiles. 
 Speculation over the reasons for North Korea's campaign ranges from sheer distress -- because of repeated famines and a collapsing economy -- to a push from the country's Chinese benefactors, who are eager to remove North Korea and its weapons programs from Washington's list of justifications for developing missile shields.
But for all the attention to the reception given to Dr. Albright, the scenes of conciliation and good cheer were merely the latest in a gradually accelerating transformation that has been under way for at least a year.
If the shift away from brinkmanship has been most visible at the top, diplomats and international aid workers who have had either long or recently intense exposure to the country say that the changes are even more impressive at the more mundane level of contacts with diplomats and middle-level bureaucrats.
North Korea has been on a diplomatic blitz for a year now, establishing or planning links with Britain, Canada, Australia, Italy and France. "Meeting with North Korean officials used to be like watching a man try to cross a river by feeling the rocks under his feet one by one," said a diplomat from one of those countries. "The only thing is that whenever the North Koreans reached a rock, you could never be sure they wanted to proceed any further."
"Nowadays," the diplomat said, "you walk into a meeting with them for the first time, and before you can even get acquainted, they are saying, 'Great, how quickly can we establish relations?' "
The cynical view is that this diplomatic offensive merely seeks as much aid as possible while diversifying the sources. Just as surely, though, these new engagements will expose people in the world's most reclusive nation to outside influences, a risky proposition, which perhaps explains why such an opening has not been tried before.
In a system like North Korea's, with power highly concentrated and closely held, such changes reflect decisions at the summit of power. But it is clear that few of the changes have been explained to people down the bureaucracy.
Now, suddenly, people in a nation that with China's help fought the United States to a standstill in the Korean War, and have been told all their lives that Americans are wolves, are seeing their leaders making merry with the enemy.
"Why are people suddenly so cooperative?" said a Western diplomat whose country is planning to open relations soon. "Because they know the instructions have come from the chairman to smile and get as much help from the outside as possible, and they know they'd better not fail. But boy, are they confused."
The theme of confusion was repeated by almost every Westerner with experience in North Korea. "Decisions in a pyramidal society like this are so centralized, so political and so personal, that it is hard for Americans to understand that kind of pressure," said Peter Hayes, co-executive director of the Nautilus Institute, a private aid group that has been active in the country for years.
"Many people are confused," Mr. Hayes said. "They don't know what the new edicts from the top mean. Those at the top might not even know. They are striking out in a completely new direction, and they are going to have to make it up as they go along."
But frequent visitors say that given the sheer weight of the country's totalitarian ideology and generations of mass indoctrination, changing course will be akin to turning a huge ship at sea.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Seoul Says No to Dalai Lama
 SEOUL, South Korea, Oct. 30 (Agence France-Presse) -- South Korea said today that it would not allow a visit in November by the Dalai Lama. The Foreign Ministry spokesman gave no reasons for the ban, but other officials cited China's strong protest against contacts with the Dalai Lama, whom it calls a Tibetan separatist.
Supporters of the Dalai Lama's visit said they would work for Foreign Minister Lee Joung Binn's resignation. They have also asked why a government led by President Kim Dae Jung, who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize earlier this month, would not allow another Nobel peace laureate to visit.
The Dalai Lama won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989 for his nonviolent campaign on behalf of his homeland, which China occupied 50 years ago. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; FRANCE; CANADA; AUSTRALIA; ITALY; GREAT BRITAIN; SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); FAMINE (73%); KOREAN WAR (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



818 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Public Interests;
Hillary Gets a Rewrite

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS 

DATELINE: BUFFALO

 BODY:
When F. Scott Fitzgerald said there were no second acts in America, he must have had it mixed up with some other country. Maybe France.
"Stick with me, and I'll stick with you," hollered Hillary Clinton, the front-running candidate for the U.S. Senate, last weekend. Her voice was hoarse, and she was on her second Sunday church service, with five more events to go. 
 It's awesome, really, the way Mrs. Clinton has transformed herself from failed co-president and betrayed first lady into a politician in her own right. I've always wondered if the women who line up to get her autograph see her as not only a candidate, but a hopeful sign. If your job is maybe not that great, or your family life unsatisfactory, it's still possible to turn your life around in middle age. There's Hillary, who made a disastrous wrong turn when she tried to hitch her star to her husband's career, and look at her now -- the Xena of midlife career changes.
This is the most attractive side of the Clinton saga -- their unsinkabil ity. Personally, there are days when even the least little thing -- say, an announcement from the cockpit that my plane will not be leaving because the pilot can't buckle his seat belt -- is enough to make me want to throw in the towel. But there is Mrs. Clinton, who sunk the administration's health initiative, got hauled before a grand jury, was humiliated by a feckless spouse, and still wrote herself a whole new script for Act II. It's an inspiration to us all.
This story would be a little tidier if Mrs. Clinton bought into it. But she isn't really willing to disavow Act I, particularly her decision to combine the roles of spouse and policy maker in her husband's administration. "Well, you know, we had done it in Arkansas and it had worked really well. And on everything except health care it worked pretty well for the last eight years," she said as her bus tooled across western New York.
While Hillary talked with her staff or gave interviews, Chelsea Clinton was reading a very long book, perfectly suited for a drive from Ithaca to Buffalo to Utica to Albany. At every stop, the two of them emerged. Mrs. Clinton made her remarks and her daughter shook hundreds of hands, saying "thank you for coming" and "we need your vote" over and over and over. (There comes a time in many women's lives when we start wondering if we can ever make it up to our mothers for what we owe them. It is entirely possible that Chelsea Clinton has evened the score during this one campaign.)
At a newly opened Krispy Kreme store on the outskirts of Buffalo, Mrs. Clinton signed pastry boxes while Chelsea thanked more people for coming. Traffic was backed up as far as the eye could see, a development that turned out to have nothing to do with the presence of the first lady/ Senate candidate. The Krispy Kreme store has turned into such a local attraction that people said they sometimes wait in line for two hours to get to the drive-in window. Obviously, this campaign needs to devote more attention to the lack of entertainment options in upstate New York.
The president may call the campaign a half-dozen times a day to offer advice, but the operation is very much the reflection of Hillary Clinton's own style, which is to work very hard and never say anything interesting or off-script. There were plenty of consultants who told her that New Yorkers like feisty campaigners with some pizazz. But Mrs. Clinton has tried pizazz, and pizazz is not her friend.
Instead, she goes from town to town, distributing her economic development plan ("Support tourism . . . encourage high-tech entrepreneurs to locate here . . ."). Meanwhile, her opponents seem to self-destruct. There's something about her that makes people go crazy and fling charges so outrageous that they boomerang back on the person who made them. Does anybody actually believe Mrs. Clinton had a role in the explosion on the U.S.S. Cole? Nobody's tried to pin the West Nile virus on her yet, but we still have a week to go.
If she wins, she instantly wipes out her identity as Bill Clinton's wife and becomes a high-ranking elected official from a state he barely knows. If Al Gore loses the election, she'll also enter the ranks of the Great Mentioneds for the 2004 presidential nomination. If Elizabeth Dole made the cut, there will be no way of keeping Senator Clinton off the list.
Talk about a change of scenery. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: UTICA, NY, USA (77%); ALBANY, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); UTICA, NY, USA (77%); ALBANY, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); WOMEN (75%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); FAMILY (69%); GRAND JURY (50%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GAIL; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



819 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

EURO RISES. The euro continued to rise on expectations that United States economic growth will slow to be more in line with that of the euro zone. In New York, the euro settled at 84.14 cents, up from 84.03 cents on Friday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since May 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EURO (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); TRENDS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



820 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
These dot-coms may know about e-commerce, but what they don't know about marketing . . .

BYLINE: By Bernard Stamler 

 BODY:
THEY can be seen everywhere, filling the pages of newspapers and magazines. Some are striking. But most -- overloaded with oh-so-clever copy, or replete with meaningless references -- are somewhat less than compelling. They are print ads for Internet businesses and, for the most part, they are not very good.
Or so concludes a quarterly report titled "What's Wrong With Dot-Com Ads?" to be released tomorrow by Roper Starch Worldwide, a marketing research and consulting firm based in Harrison, N.Y. Since 1923, when Dr. Daniel Starch first began analyzing print advertisements ("starching" them, in the lingo of the trade), the company has promulgated rules and offered advice to those in the advertising world about what works -- and what does not. And it is the kind of advice that is sought by many traditional ad makers, like Michael McKenna, president and chief executive of Marsteller Advertising, New York, part of the Burson-Marsteller Worldwide unit of Young & Rubicam. He calls Roper Starch's methodology "understandable" and "incredibly useful." 
 Of the dot-com ads, Phil Sawyer, a Roper Starch senior vice president, said: "It's an example of what's going on" in the Internet "as a whole." He was referring to what he described as the "entrepreneurial spirit" of Internet venturers who think that they have reinvented the wheel with their businesses -- and with their ad campaigns. "A lot of advertisers on the Internet are just not paying attention to the basics," he said.
"I've asked people: 'Don't you do research?' " he said. " 'No,' they say, 'we're just cranking it out.' "
Starch gauges ad effectiveness by interviewing readers of various publications and assessing to what degree various ads catch and hold their attention. Three "degrees of readership" are measured and reported: "noted," meaning that the person interviewed remembers seeing the ad; "associated," meaning that he or she saw and remembered the name of the advertiser; and "read most," referring to those who actually read at least half of the copy in the ad. In all of these categories, Mr. Sawyer said, where 100 is the average score, dot-com ads frequently earned below average marks.
They did so by violating some of Starch's most basic rules. For example, the report notes that effective ads are generally those that are simple, with one sharp picture, a distinct focal point and an explicit message in a headline containing no more than nine words. Yet an ad for Elcom.com, an automated procurement system for businesses, has a 29-word headline, a dense copy block over a variably shaded background and no distinct image, giving it scores in Starch's three categories of 71 to 79.
Similarly, an ad for Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette that promotes DLJ Direct, its online brokerage site, garnered scores of only 50 to 89 with its use of a black and white photograph of a man in a passing train (not memorable) on a mustard yellow background (not a compelling color). And, though understandable, an ad for the GTE Superpages business listing a Web site, which features a drawing of a magnet searching for that proverbial needle in a haystack, breaks another cardinal rule: it relies on a metaphor that requires "more time and effort than most readers are ready to spend" (The ad got scores of 72 to 83).
The worst ad cited? With scores from only 38 to 69, was Della & James, an online gift registry. Its ad features a photograph of a bunch of gentlemen all done up formally for a very British-looking wedding. The headline: "So simple, even the groomsmen can figure it out."
Groomsmen? "The typical American," the report notes, unfamiliar with "accouterments of a British wedding" is "unlikely to be either emotionally or intellectually engaged with the scene." Or with the microscopic size of the explanatory copy.
Not all dot-com ads are bad, of course. An ad for the toy seller eToys.com scored over 100 in all three Starch categories because its simple headline -- "Find the perfect book for your child every time" -- complied with another of Starch's golden rules: answer the reader's question "What's in it for me?" right away. And another ad for Buyitnow.com did even better, scoring as high as 138 in the "read most" category, by virtue of its announcement of "Hassle Free Shopping" with "something for everyone."
And then there are the ads that are successful, even though they break all of the Starch rules. Like one for Youdecide.com, a Web site that "provides the facts you need to make smarter decisions."
The ad presents an elongated, distorted picture of a face (generally a no-no), places copy over the image and is hugely "cluttered," according to Mr. Sawyer. But its message is clear: "Save a ton of money, get all the stuff you want." And so, despite what he calls its flaws, it got high ratings: 111 to 120 on the Roper Starch scale.
"It just proves that if you do one thing right -- really hype the benefits of what you're offering -- then you can overcome all sorts of problems," Mr. Sawyer said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GFK (FRA) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (74%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (74%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (55%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ROPER STARCH WORLDWIDE GFK AG (74%); BURSON-MARSTELLER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROPER STARCH WORLDWIDE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); ADVERTISING COPY TESTING (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ELECTRONIC PROCUREMENT (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); 

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD ANN LIVERMORE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



821 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON with Dean E. Murphy, Sherri Day and Linda Lee 

 BODY:

Clinton Campaign Changes Its Tune
Apparently, HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON'S campaign recognizes the power of suggestion.
For a rally on Sunday in Auburn, N.Y., her campaign hired a D.J., PHIL DELASSANDRO of Syracuse, to pick and play the music. Tina Turner's "Simply the Best" was fine, as were Sister Sledge's "We Are Family" and the Bee Gees' "Stayin' Alive." 
 But when Donna Summer's "She Works Hard for the Money" began blasting from Mr. Delassandro's speakers, RAY OCASIO, who was working on Mrs. Clinton's advance staff, shouted, "Cut! Cut!" He had Mr. Delassandro stop the compact disc in the middle of the song. Soon, "What's On Your Mind" by Information Society was playing.
No one from Mrs. Clinton's campaign would comment on why Mr. Ocasio had ordered "She Works Hard for the Money" halted or whether the campaign was concerned that someone in the crowd would think that playing the song was a commentary on the fund-raisers she attends.
Yesterday, a jewelry-store owner in Schenectady, N.Y., all but offered CHELSEA CLINTON a job. (What he said was, "If you need a job after college," and his voice trailed off.)
So what is Ms. Clinton -- who was campaigning with her mother -- going to do after college?
"I'm not sure actually," she said. "A few ideas, a few ideas. Oxford, economics." Then she and Mrs. Clinton left the store.
With help from the New York City Board of Elections, the producers of the Broadway play "Gore Vidal's 'The Best Man' " set up a real voting booth in the lobby of the Virginia Theater on Oct. 11. People attending the play could step in and pull levers for the candidates they preferred in the presidential campaign and the New York Senate race.
What the Board of Elections lends, the Board of Elections takes away. It carted the voting machine off the other day to be used at a real polling place next week. But the producers kept track, and said that of 1,200 theatergoers who voted, 75 percent voted for Vice President Al Gore and 25 percent for Gov. George W. Bush. As for the Senate race, 68 percent chose Mrs. Clinton; 32 percent her Republican opponent, Representative Rick A. Lazio.
"Every night there were lines at the voting booth, longer lines than for the men's and ladies' rooms," said JEFFREY RICHARDS, a producer of the play.

Good Golf Courses Are Hard to Find
It was the kind of party where, at the mogul table, HARVEY WEINSTEIN of Miramax could be heard asking JEFFREY KATZENBERG of DreamWorks, "Have you met Bobby Kennedy?"
Chances are that Mr. Katzenberg had, since he and ROBERT F. KENNEDY JR. (a lawyer for Riverkeeper, an environmental group) were among the co-chairmen of the party, which benefited the Natural Resources Defense Council. Other co-chairmen included the movie stars MATT DAMON and CHARLIZE THERON, who appear in ROBERT REDFORD'S period golf movie "The Legend of Bagger Vance." Mr. Redford was honorary chairman.
The connection between ecologically unfriendly golf and defending natural resources?
For one thing, the movie is set in the 1920's, when golf courses were more natural looking -- so much so that Mr. Redford said he had a hard time finding a course that looked like one from that period. He ended up relying on cinematography and digital trickery (but "not as much as you think," he said).
The 13-year-old star of "Bagger Vance," L. MICHAEL MONCRIEF, does not have another movie in the works, "but I'm reading scripts," he said. He turned. "Ma!" he said. "Who's my agent?"

A Cryptic Briton Takes in Uptown
After touring Harlem yesterday, PRINCE ANDREW said one word when he was asked for his impression of the neighborhood: "Fascinating."
Then he jumped into the back seat of his hunter-green Bentley and sped down Lenox Avenue without explaining what he had meant.
Earlier, at the headquarters of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, a federal, state and city program designed to foster economic development in Harlem, he had used three words to describe the trip to Harlem, his first: "A tremendous privilege."
A spokesman for Prince Andrew, DAVID TUCK, said that the prince was interested in economic development and was involved in a community initiative program in Yorkshire that was working to help regenerate neighborhoods there.
Yesterday, a minibus took Prince Andrew to Harlem landmarks like 125th Street and the 369th Regiment Armory.
There he met ROSCOE C. BROWN, a former president of Bronx Community College who served with the famed Tuskegee Airmen, the black bomber and fighter pilots who had their own unit in the segregated Army in World War II.
"You wouldn't know he's a prince unless they told you," Mr. Brown said. "He literally seemed excited about being in Harlem." JAMES BARRON with Dean E. Murphy, Sherri Day and Linda Lee
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: PRINCE ANDREW

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ;BEST MAN, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MUSIC; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; THEATER ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MUSIC (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); THEATER (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); FUNDRAISING (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES; MURPHY, DEAN E; DAY, SHERRI; LEE, LINDA; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); DELASSANDRO, PHIL; ANDREW (PRINCE) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); PRINCE ANDREW, DUKE OF YORK (74%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (66%); AL GORE (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



822 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Makes the Good Life A Tourist Bargain in Europe

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: ROME, Oct. 30

 BODY:
Like other European capitals, Rome is enjoying a record year for foreign tourism, with 24 percent more American visitors this year than last. Some may be religious pilgrims coming for the Jubilee, a Holy Year of the Roman Catholic Church. But most are not here to do penance.
"Our Beluga caviar consumption has tripled, our oyster consumption has almost doubled, and our champagne consumption has quintupled this year," Nicola Rex, a manager of the five-star Hassler Hotel on top of the Spanish Steps, said. "We ask ourselves, have all our clients become Arab sheiks?" Mr. Rex discovered that actually, 90 percent of the requests came from American guests. 
 About 12.4 million Americans are expected to visit Europe this year, according to forecasts by the Brussels-based European Travel Commission, a 6 percent increase over 1999, and the eighth consecutive year of record traffic to Europe.
American tourists are taking barge trips through Burgundy, hiking in the glaciers of Iceland, horseback riding across Andalusia, and scooping up Hermes wallets and Baccarat crystal on the Faubourg-St.-Honore or Loro Piana cashmere scarves on the Via Borgognona in Rome. Some of the more wealthy tourists are picking up more lasting souvenirs -- buying pied-a-terre apartments in Paris and medieval farmhouses in Umbria or holding Renaissance theme weddings in Tuscany.
The strong United States economy is driving the vast holiday migration to Europe, helped by the dollar's exchange rate against the euro, the unified European currency that 11 countries joined in 1999, and which recently fell to a record low of 82.81 cents to the dollar. At the end of trading today, the euro had bounced back to 84.14 cents, but since its introduction at the beginning of 1999, it has lost more than one-quarter of its value against the dollar.
The dollar's rise against the euro has shrunk the costs of shopping, accommodations and dining for traveling Americans. A modest dinner for three of pizza and salad at Tosca, a restaurant in central Rome, that cost about $40 last week would have come closer to $52 just a year before.
The urge to do Europe this year is so strong that the seasons have blurred. "All the early indications from airlines, hotels and tour operators suggest that the off-season is booming," said Einar Gustavsson, the United States chairman of the European Travel Commission, who is based in New York. Mr. Gustavsson, who is also the New York representative of the national tourism board of Iceland, a country where tourism is up 20 percent this year over last, noted that today's American tourist has new expectations. "We are competing not so much for people's money as their time. Americans have money, but they don't have a lot of time, so they want quality. Culture. And the way you spell culture in America is Rembrandts, opera, food and, of course, the shopping."
On Saturdays, customer service at the Louis Vuitton store on the Champs-Elysees in Paris begins on the sidewalk. The lines of shoppers, mostly Japanese and American, are long, wide and sometimes testy. Vuitton dispatches greeters who try to impose order by jotting down names, first-come, first-serve, on little leather notebooks. On Saturdays, shoppers eager to take advantage of the dollar-franc rate can wait for an hour. Or more.
"It was absolutely terrible," Victor Sands, an orthodontist from Beverly Hills, Calif., recalled with a shudder. "We had a list, and by the time we got to a salesgirl, nothing we wanted was left in stock." Cyrille Merienne, deputy store manager of the Vuitton shop on the Champs-Elysees, acknowledged that clients sometimes had to wait to be served. "We try to accommodate the crowds, but our sales people have to spend quality time with each client," he said. "We are not a supermarket. And we never will be."
Dr. Sands tried to recover from the ordeal inside the plush, softly lit interiors of Hermes, where he and his friend Fred Kumetz, a lawyer from Beverly Hills, loitered in wait for their wives, who were wedged deep into the scarf counter, jostled by dozens of other tourists eager to buy silk and cashmere items that cost almost half what they would in New York.
The two couples had planned long ago to visit Europe this year, but the strength of the dollar rerouted their itinerary. "If the franc hadn't been so cheap, we wouldn't have been shopping so much," Mr. Sands explained wearily. "We might actually have seen a museum."
This loosening of American purse strings is prompted by the longest period of growth in the United States in a century, as well as the giddy sense that even the grand life on the Continent has never been quite so affordable. "I have been coming to Paris regularly for 10 years, and this is the first time the dollar was really on my side," said Alan Helene, 44, a real estate developer from New York.
Mr. Helene, who treated himself and his wife to a week at the Plaza Athenee, had just bought a watch at Bulgari that cost him 35 percent less than it was priced on Madison Avenue. "There is nothing better than the feeling you are getting away with something," he chortled.
Britain, France, Italy and Germany remain the favorite destinations for American tourists. But the British pound, which is not linked to the euro, is stronger against the dollar and the growth rate for tourism there is lower, with only a 2 percent increase expected this year over last. Ireland, which is part of the euro, is anticipating a 6 percent increase in visitors.
Spain is expecting a 20 percent increase in American tourists this year. Waiting to enter the Prado Museum in Madrid, David Hogenkamp, a television executive from Buffalo, said the strong dollar was a definite factor in deciding to visit Spain, where the peseta is at 198 to the dollar, near the lowest it has been since the 1950's. "We are planning to buy some clothes, maybe some leather goods and jewelry," said his companion, Maryanne Skiva, a C.P.A. from Buffalo. "I'm even going to do some Christmas shopping."
They marveled at the low prices. "I've noticed that everything in general, food, hotels, etc. is generally cheaper than in the States. We're renting a car for 10 days to visit Barcelona and the southern coast and it only costs $167," Mr. Hogenkamp said.
Europe is attracting all kinds of American tourists. "The increase is all across the board -- it is not isolated to high-end tourism," Tom Souza, vice president of the European division of Far & Wide, a Miami-based consortium of 17 travel companies, said. "It's not just the strong dollar, there is strong consumer confidence."
Not all American tourists, moreover, are booking five-star hotels and eating in gourmet restaurants. Brett Wallace, 30, traveling with his friend, Jeff Gust, 34, both from Wisconsin, flew out of O'Hare, and were on a male-bonding trip, which included window shopping along Dublin's fashionable Temple Bar area.
"We found a hot deal on Frommers.com," Mr. Wallace explained. He seemed most interested in finding good deals in pubs. A pint of Guinness in a Dublin pub costs $2.33, whereas a pint in London goes for $3.71. "We are paying 2.30 for a pint of Guinness," he said triumphantly. "That's less than three bucks a pint. And, you don't have to tip."
Mr. Wallace splurged on a pair of black leather shoes for 60 Irish pounds.
Others are buying medieval stone farmhouses. "A year ago, the dollar was worth about 1,800 lira, and now it is about 2,300, so, of course, Americans find it much more tempting to buy a dream house in Italy," according to Claudio Santi, a real estate agent at Tuder Immobilier, who helped arrange the sale.
Marie-Helene Lundgreen, who works in the Belles Demeures department of Daniel Feau Conseil Immobilier, a Paris real estate firm, explained that not only was she getting many more American clients, but that the profile of the average American client had become younger and wealthier in the last few years. "It used to be older couples getting ready to retire; now I have new-economy clients -- the 28-year-old trader who has a loft in TriBeCa and wants a two bedroom pied-a-terre in Paris and can spend more than $1 million to buy the perfect place."
Perfection, in Paris, means a prestigious location, views of Notre Dame or the Eiffel Tower, large bathrooms, and exquisite furnishings. "For Americans, Paris is a dream, but that dream is very specific," Mrs. Lundgreen said. She noted that she recently sold a 200-square-meter duplex penthouse apartment in St.-Germain-des-Pres for $2.5 million to an American who made up her mind in one weekend.
Europe has always drawn honeymooners. Over the last few years, a growing number of Americans have held weddings overseas, exchanging vows and holding candle-lit receptions along the canals of Venice or in medieval castles in Tuscany.
Christopher and Carey Worthy, 29, were married on Oct. 14 in a red, richly brocaded reception room in the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence, and both wore white -- he donned his naval reserve dress uniform, she wore a Renaissance wedding gown. "The exchange rate kept falling in our favor -- we couldn't believe how inexpensive it turned out to be," Mr. Worthy said.
Sandra Santoro, a Florence-based wedding planner, said, "This year we have witnessed an absolute boom in American weddings." Her company, Getting Married in Italy by Atlantis, arranged more than 70 this year. "Its become fashionable, and the American economy makes it affordable," she explained.
Depending on size and extravagance, her firm's weddings cost anywhere from 3 million lire, or $1,301, to 150 million. She cautioned that Italian bureaucracy sometimes punctured some of the more romantic American fantasies. "I have clients who want to get married barefoot on the beach or in a gondola in Venice, and I have to explain that by law, they have to do it in a town hall," she said.
American consumer confidence appears to have rubbed off on Europeans, who are continuing to visit the United States, even though the strong dollar makes everything from airline tickets to fast-food outlets more expensive. The Tourism Industries Office of the Department of Commerce has noted that 5.8 percent more Europeans are visiting the United States than last year.
"I am one of those stupid Frenchmen who spend all their summer holidays in Florida," Francois Delahaye, general manager of the Plaza Athenee in Paris explained. "I get poorer every time my children visit Orlando."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Such Bargains"
Americans traveling in Europe are finding the strong dollar has given them more purchasing power, particularly for luxury goods. While still not cheap, here are some relative bargains at current exchange rates.
 
APARTMENT
 
PARIS
3 bedroom, 3 baths, 2,500 sq. ft. in a top neighborhood
$2.96 million or $1,189 a sq. ft.
 
NEW YORK
2 bedroom, 3 baths, 2,600 sq. ft. on Upper East Side
$3.39 million or $1,302 a sq. ft.
 
CAPPUCCINO
 
ROME
Tre Scalini in Piazza Navona
$2.18
 
NEW YORK
Starbucks on Eighth Ave., between 43rd and 44th Streets
$3.25
 
MEN'S GOLD WATCH
By Bulgari
 
ROME -- $4,200*
NEW YORK -- $5,600
 
DINNER
Prix fixe at Alain Ducasse featuring white truffles
 
PARIS -- $190
NEW YORK -- $250
 
HANDBAG
Monogrammed accessory pouch by Louis Vuitton
 
PARIS -- $104*
NEW YORK -- $140
 
OPERA TICKET
 
MILAN
La Scala, best seats: $130
 
NEW YORK
Metropolitan Opera, best seats: $250
 
HOTEL SUITE
 
ROME
Hassler Hotel -- $344
 
NEW YORK
St. Regis -- $590
 
MUSEUM ADMISSION
 
PARIS
Louvre
Before 3 p.m. $5.91
After 3 p.m. $3.86
 
NEW YORK
Metropolitan Musem of Art (suggested)
Adults -- $10
Students/seniors -- $5
 
*Excluding tariff from bringing item back into the United States.
(Sources: Corcoran Group for real estate prices in New York; everything else from retailers)(pg. C10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BCRA (PAR) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (94%); ITALY (94%); ICELAND (92%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: BACCARAT SA (55%); NEW YORK (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FRANCE; SPAIN; GREAT BRITAIN; IRELAND; GERMANY; EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (94%); ITALY (94%); ICELAND (92%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); ROME, ITALY (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS RELIGION (91%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (90%); EURO (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); SEAFOOD (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); TOUR OPERATORS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (67%); EXCHANGE RATES (64%); 

PERSON: VICTOR SANDS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



823 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Blase About the Boom

BYLINE: By Robert M. Dunn Jr.; Robert M. Dunn Jr. is a professor of economics at George Washington University.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Some Democrats and pundits can't figure out why Al Gore isn't getting a bigger bounce from the Clinton era's boom economy. The implication is that the vice president isn't politically deft enough to capitalize on this huge advantage.
But that's not the real reason why the economic conditions haven't favored Mr. Gore. The explanation is far simpler: many Americans only vaguely remember what it's like to be in a serious recession, and young voters have never experienced one at all. Good times are increasingly taken for granted, meaning that incumbents are not getting credit for economic success these days. 
 From 1950 through 1982, the average business cycle was 4.2 years, with three years of growth often followed by one year of recession. The only sustained period of growth was from 1961 to 1969, but the accelerating inflation caused by the Vietnam War made those years far from painless. In every presidential election of the 30-year period, voters had a clear memory of bad times.
These last 18 years have been very different. The United States has had almost two decades of strong economic growth, with only a shallow downturn in 1991. Voters now have to be almost 40 years old to have been adults during the recession of the early 1980's when unemployment was 9.6 percent. Many college students now think recessions are something that happened to their grandparents.
Though of no solace to Mr. Gore, the perceived irrelevance of the business cycle to this year's presidential race is not permanent. Few if any economists believe the United States has repealed the business cycle. There is a recession out there waiting for us, whether the stock market's current problems augur one or not.
We should be concerned, for example, that American families have been spending money beyond their incomes and that debt service costs are now at a record as a share of disposable income. If people decide to curtail their spending, or if banks find it prudent to stop lending them money, a recession will follow. Another source of concern is our high trade deficit, and our borrowing of hundreds of billions of dollars a year from the rest of the world to finance it. If foreign investors ever decided to stop lending here, the exchange rate for the dollar would plummet, and the higher costs for foreign goods could worsen inflation. The Federal Reserve would have to raise interest rates to control it.
A recession or two in the next several years will mean the business cycle has returned to normal, and politicians' fortunes will once again be tied to economic ups and downs. The next president might actually benefit from recession in 2001 and 2002, if it were followed by a strong recovery in 2003 and 2004. Memories of recession would be fresh, and the recovery of the two years before the election greatly appreciated. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; PUBLIC OPINION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLITICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (67%); CURRENCIES (65%); EXCHANGE RATES (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); VIETNAM WAR (53%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); 

PERSON: DUNN, ROBERT M JR; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



824 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Primedia to Buy About.com For $690 Million in Stock
Primedia, the magazine conglomerate controlled by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, agreed to buy About.com, one of New York City's largest Internet companies, for $690 million in stock.
The companies serve a sprawling and eclectic list of specialized interests. Primedia has a few big titles, including New York and Seventeen, but it has largely collected about 100 consumer fan magazines. About, formed in 1996 as the Mining Company, is a Web guide created by independent, mostly part-time guides who earn a share of the site's advertising. It now comprises more than 700 sites on topics from astrology to woodworking. Page C14.
 
Have Strong Dollars, Will Travel
The strong United States economy is driving a vast holiday migration to Europe, helped by the dollar's rise against the euro, which has shrunk the costs of shopping, accommodations and dining for traveling Americans. A1.
 
PepsiCo to Acquire 90% of SoBe
PepsiCo agreed to buy a 90 percent stake in South Beach Beverage for $370 million in cash, beating its archrival Coca-Cola again in one of the most dynamic segments of the beverage industry. Sales of SoBe's herb-laden "elixirs" with names like Edge, Power and Tsunami have jumped to $225 million this year from $1.2 million in 1996. Shares of PepsiCo rose $1.13, to $49.25. C2.
 
Dow Gains 2.3% as Nasdaq Slides
The Dow Jones industrial average registered its biggest one-day gain in six months as investors put money into blue-chip issues and sold technology shares. The Dow rose 245.15 points, or 2.3 percent, to 10,835.77. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also moved higher, rising 19.08 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,398.66. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 86.96 points, or 2.7 percent, to 3,191.40. C18.
 
Smirnoff Seeks to Improve Image
The 12-member global marketing team for Smirnoff vodka is moving to Stamford, Conn., from London as part of an effort to improve the brand's image in the United States. C2.
 
Microsoft Tries to Prevent Filings
Microsoft asked a federal appeals court to forbid nine organizations and individuals who support the government antitrust suit against the company, including America Online, to file court briefs in the case. Alternatively, Microsoft said all nine should be asked to combine their thoughts into one 25-page brief. C4.
 
Share Sale in Sky Global Delayed
The News Corporation, which had been planning to sell part of its global satellite businesses, Sky Global Networks, to the public next month, has postponed the sale because of market conditions, a person close to the company said. Despite the delay, News Corporation, controlled by Rupert Murdoch, is in talks with Microsoft about selling a nearly $1 billion stake in Sky Global, which would give Microsoft 3.5 percent of the company. C4.
 
Auction Settlement Details Payouts
A $512 million formal settlement of the class-action lawsuit against Sotheby's and Christie's lays out for the first time how the proceeds are to be divided among the plaintiffs, according to Sotheby's court papers. C17.
 
Verizon Posts Flat Quarterly Profit
Verizon's third-quarter profit was almost unchanged as it spent more on services like long distance and high-speed Internet access. C2.
 
Spending and Incomes Show Gains
Spending by consumers surged 0.8 percent in September, the Commerce Department reported, and an election-year package of farm aid pushed up incomes 1.1 percent. C16.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart tracks PepsiCo since last Monday.
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,835.77 up 245.15
Nasdaq composite -- 3,191.40 down 86.96
10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.73% up 0.02
The euro -- $0.8414 up 0.0011
The dollar -- 108.92 yen up 0.23
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows "New Home Sales"
September figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.
Expected: +0.8%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (91%); NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%); PEP (NYSE) (56%); KO (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); AOL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (91%); ABOUT.COM INC (90%); NEWS CORP (81%); PEPSICO INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); AOL INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); US DOLLAR (74%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BRANDING (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); EURO (68%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



825 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3556 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENCY;
Few in No. 2 Spot Have Been As Involved in Policy as Gore

SERIES: AL GORE'S JOURNEY: The Vice Presidency

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and MELINDA HENNEBERGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 30

 BODY:
A case can be made that Al Gore has been the most active and influential vice president in American history.
There is little the Clinton administration has done or tried to do over the last eight years in which Mr. Gore has not played some role. From his early eagerness to cut budget deficits in 1993 to the aggressive fund-raising of the 1996 campaign to his role in the final days of the Kosovo conflict in 1999, Mr. Gore has been heard and, more often than not, heeded. 
 He has suffered some painful defeats, such as when oil-state senators beat back his proposal to use energy taxes as a deficit-reduction tool, and notable victories, such as helping to put the threat of global warming on the national policy agenda.
He played a critical part in the removal of thousands of nuclear weapons from former Soviet states; in pushing, though at first without much success, for a more muscular response to the bloodshed in Bosnia; in the government's proposal to regulate tobacco as a dangerous drug. He also had a hand in pressuring the entertainment industry to accept "v-chip" technology to shield children from sex and mayhem on television.
There were stumbles, as well. Two of the worst came in the same month, March 1997, when Mr. Gore famously told a White House news conference that "no controlling legal authority" barred him from making telephone calls asking for Democratic political contributions from his office. Later that month, in Beijing, Mr. Gore clinked Champagne glasses with Li Peng, the Chinese prime minister who ordered the Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989.
"In the history of the vice presidency, Al Gore has a unique and remarkable record," said Stephen Hess, a scholar of the presidency at the Brookings Institution in Washington.
Mr. Gore was known within the administration as at least the second most influential adviser to the president, after Hillary Rodham Clinton. He was often the quickest to push an aggressive approach, whether on foreign policy or on budgets or on trade.
But Mr. Gore was still vice president, not prime minister, and his advice was not always taken. Early in the administration, Mr. Gore sought a significant assignment, like carrying out the campaign promise to end welfare "as we know it." But he wound up with the less-than-electrifying "reinventing government" initiative.
Some of Mr. Gore's more assertive environmental ideas, like ratcheting up fuel economy standards for cars, were rejected by Mr. Clinton, who believed the issue was a political loser in the industrial Midwest.
Mr. Gore's early pleas on the Balkans likewise went unheeded. In numerous internal discussions in early 1993, Mr. Gore pressed for the use of American air power to slow the ethnic slaughter in Bosnia, White House aides said. Mr. Gore was essentially silenced until 1995 when he again became a passionate advocate for allied intervention.
Those who worked closely with the vice president cited his steadiness and his strength as an often welcome contrast to the pliancy of the president, who seemed to waver on his commitments to people and to policy, particularly early in his administration.
But what mystifies these people is that while Mr. Gore was often bold and forceful in the councils of government, he has stumbled as a candidate and has failed to capitalize on his significant record of accomplishment to make the case for his election.
"What's amazing about him is he's a much less courageous campaigner than I would have thought and much more courageous in governance than I thought he would be," said a senior White House official who has observed Mr. Gore closely for the last eight years. "He was really gutsy as a government official, but that just doesn't translate to the campaign. Gore just wants to get elected, then he thinks he'll be free to do the right thing."
 
'Reinventing Government'
Even before Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore were inaugurated in January 1993, the vice president had negotiated an unprecedented role for a No. 2. He was not to be deputy president, but he would have real authority over a number of areas where he claimed expertise: the environment, science and technology and streamlining government.
Mr. Gore exercised that power early on by placing loyalists in critical posts throughout the government. Leon Fuerth, his longtime foreign policy adviser, was included in every important meeting of the National Security Council. Carol M. Browner, a former Senate aide, was named administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Frank W. Hunger, Mr. Gore's brother-in-law, went to the Justice Department as head of the civil division. Kathleen McGinty, another former Senate aide, was put in charge of the White House Council on Environmental Quality. Reed Hundt, a friend from Mr. Gore's prep-school days at St. Albans, was named chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.
Mr. Gore's first executive assignment was running the National Performance Review, more popularly known as the "reinventing government" initiative, or Rego.
The task involved combing the entire federal bureaucracy for waste, duplication and uneconomic purchasing practices. It was a job for an accountant, not a would-be president, but Mr. Gore took to it like a man killing rats with a broomstick.
He and his aides have attributed huge cost savings to the program -- the current estimate is $137 billion -- but those claims are essentially unprovable because it is impossible to know which reductions were a result of Rego and which came from productivity improvements enjoyed by the nation at large.
In his third debate with Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, Mr. Gore claimed the reinvention program had reduced government civilian employment by 300,000 workers, to the lowest level since John F. Kennedy was president. In fact, the number of total jobs cut is considerably higher -- almost 400,000 -- but two-thirds of them are military workers whose jobs were eliminated by the military drawdown brought by the end of the cold war.
"Gore is clearly wrong to argue that reinventing government caused the decline in civil service employment that did occur," said Paul C. Light, director of governmental studies at the Brookings Institution. "He would have been perfectly right to say the Clinton administration 'oversaw,' 'participated in,' or 'implemented' the cuts, but reinventing government did not cause the decline in total jobs. It was the end of the cold war, pure and simple."
Mr. Gore was the first vice president to serve as a full member of the National Security Council and was given broad sway over a large part of United States policy toward Russia. In April 1994, Mr. Clinton asked Mr. Gore to meet regularly with Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, then the Russian prime minister, to address aspects of United States-Russian relations that came under Mr. Gore's areas of expertise but did not rise to the presidential level. The two men took up disarmament, space cooperation, legal issues and the environment, among other issues.
 
Bold Early Missteps
The first year of the administration was memorable for its early chaos and the budget package that passed only with Mr. Gore casting the tie-breaking 51st vote in the Senate. The White House was riven into competing camps: those who wanted to attack the growing federal budget deficits and those who believed Mr. Clinton had to make good on his campaign promises to "invest" billions of new dollars in education, training and other social programs.
Mr. Clinton vacillated, torn between his liberal instincts and the arguments of advisers who said the only way he would ever be able to pay for new social programs was to first convince financial markets that he was serious about controlling federal spending.
Mr. Gore was firmly in the camp of the deficit hawks. And he saw an additional benefit to budget stringency: he could test his environmental theories in a real-life laboratory.
The vice president pushed hard to have an energy tax included in the administration's first budget package, and Mr. Clinton finally acceded, over the objections of many political advisers who said that the painful plan was a sure loser on Capitol Hill. They were right. Congress rebelled at the proposal and the president quickly abandoned it, leaving Mr. Gore embarrassed and politically scarred.
"Gore felt that if we were going to impose pain on the American people, he wanted it to be environmentally conscious," said a member of the administration's economic team. "He believed that since we were raising so much from the top one or two percent, the plan's credibility depended on a little tough medicine that affected everybody."
In this battle, as in later fights, Mr. Gore argued that the public would reward boldness, that the administration would win points for taking on its own party in Congress and entrenched interests in private industry.
He was wrong, as Mr. Clinton and the Democrats learned in November 1994, when Republicans took control of the House for the first time in 40 years. The economic plan, the health care proposal drafted by Mrs. Clinton, the effort to integrate gays into the armed forces were big, bold -- and politically devastating.
 
Decisiveness Abroad
By July 1995, the vice president saw the situation in Bosnia as becoming intolerable, with American dithering making it worse. The slaughter of Bosnian Muslims by Serbian forces troubled his conscience, recalled officials close to the vice president and violated his view of America's role in the world. He had watched as the United States had humiliatingly failed to enlist European support for a plan to arm the Bosnian Muslims and pound the Serbs from the air. He had expressed, repeatedly but in private, his frustration at the president's indecision.
At a pivotal White House meeting in mid-July, Mr. Gore recalled a haunting newspaper photograph of a young woman from Srebrenica who had apparently hanged herself after Serbs overran the area. He said his daughter Karenna, then 21, had seen the picture and asked him why the United States was not doing more to end the conflict. He pleaded for more forceful action to punish the Serbs, according to officials who were present.
"He just erupted in anger," recalled Richard C. Holbrooke, now ambassador to the United Nations. "He said we didn't have a strategy anymore, we weren't facing the implications of what we were doing. He was sitting right next to the president at the time."
Within weeks, the United States led a series of punitive air strikes on Serbian targets and pressed a diplomatic offensive that ultimately resulted in the November peace accords signed at Dayton, Ohio.
The agreement called for the deployment of 20,000 United States troops to the Balkans in the role of referees between the parties to the cease-fire. The policy was vigorously debated in Congress, and in the administration. Opponents in Congress were bolstered by misgivings privately expressed by senior military officers who did not want to see American soldiers dispatched to enforce what they felt was a shaky peace deal. Some of Mr. Clinton's political advisers warned of the dangers of a major military deployment just 11 months before a presidential election.
In late November, Mr. Clinton assembled his senior civilian and military advisers in the White House situation room to discuss the Balkan military mission. The president spoke of the American commitment to enact the peace accord and the moral obligation to end the Bosnian disaster.
Mr. Gore then sternly addressed the Pentagon officials in the room, according to Mr. Holbrooke's recollection of the scene.
His words were carefully couched, but the vice president's message was unmistakable: Get with the program or shut up.
"On Somalia, Bosnia, Kosovo and the Middle East, he was always the most forceful advocate in the room for a strong policy," said Mr. Holbrooke, who is often mentioned as a likely candidate for secretary of state in a Gore administration. "He wasn't always an interventionist; he's a very careful man. But he had a deep conviction on the importance of American leadership based on moral values and American national interests."
 
His Baby: The Environment
The president and the vice president had a standing lunch date every week for the first years of the administration, broken only when one was out of town. Aides said that Mr. Gore used those sessions, among other things, as a tutorial for the president on environmental issues -- global warming, logging in the Pacific Northwest, oil drilling in Alaska, the Clean Air Act, land preservation.
Mr. Gore devoted whole sessions with the president to obscure matters, like the evaporation of the Aral Sea in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. The vice president contended that these issues were, like Bosnia and other foreign policy challenges, urgent matters not only of national interest but of moral obligation to future generations. It is a point that Mr. Gore made in his book, "Earth in the Balance" as well as in numerous public addresses.
He also persuaded the president that the environment was a winning political issue, despite opposition in manufacturing states. It became part of the mantra of the 1996 campaign, during which the president and vice president warned in every speech of Republican assaults on "Medicare, Medicaid, education and the environment."
Mr. Gore's fervor won him friends among environmentalists even as he alienated Congressional Republicans and many in the business community. While he secured noteworthy successes -- particularly on air quality, the designation of more than three million acres as untouchable national monuments and a continued moratorium on oil drilling offshore and in the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge -- his record was not without failures.
Blocked by Congress, the administration failed to impose the higher mileage standards that Mr. Gore sought for automobiles. In another defeat, Mr. Clinton ignored Mr. Gore's advice and signed a spending bill that permitted the clear-cutting of certain Western forests. Three months after Mr. Clinton signed the bill, Mr. Gore told a group of environmentalists that the measure was the "biggest mistake of the first term."
Perhaps the most significant environmental battle of the past eight years arose on Mr. Gore's signature issue, global warming. A 1997 worldwide conference in Kyoto, Japan, on reducing climate-altering gases was in danger of collapsing because of discord between industrialized countries and the developing world about how quickly and how sharply to reduce the output of greenhouse gasses.
The Senate was already on record, 95-0, as opposing any agreement that held advanced nations to higher standards than developing ones. The United States delegation to the talks was making no progress, despite prodding from Mr. Gore by telephone. Mr. Gore's aides unanimously urged him to keep his distance from what was shaping up as a failure and a humiliating blow to his prestige. He overrode their advice and flew to Japan, where he told developing nations he understood their concerns and instructed American negotiators to reach a deal at all costs.
"Kyoto was a shining moment for Al Gore," said Gregory Wetstone of the Natural Resources Defense Council. "He disregarded the passionate requests of his staff that he steer clear of an international meeting that everyone thought was going to be a train wreck and jumped right in to work on what we all see as a huge problem."
Not everyone saw it that way. Congress has refused to even consider ratifying the Kyoto pact and the United States has taken no significant action since the 1997 conference to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
And global warming remains a contentious political issue. Governor Bush and his surrogates use Mr. Gore's position as a weapon against him in states dependent on automobile manufacturing and coal production; Mr. Gore issues warnings that Mr. Bush's industry-friendly policies could devastate the earth's fragile ecology.
"The certainty, the absoluteness with which he states his position is frightening," said Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, a global-warming skeptic and sponsor of the Senate resolution that undercut Mr. Gore's position in Kyoto. "He's so absolutely sure he knows what's best."
 
His Russian Connection
More than any previous vice president, Mr. Gore was granted ministerial power by President Clinton. In April 1993, Mr. Clinton deputized him to oversee much of American policy on Russia and the former Soviet Union. The mechanism was a panel that became known as the Gore-Chernomyrdin Commission.
The relationship between Mr. Gore and Mr. Chernomyrdin remains a subject of much debate today. Republicans have harshly criticized the vice president about a confidential 1995 agreement between Mr. Gore and Mr. Chernomyrdin that allowed Russia to export a large cache of conventional weapons to Iran. The deal appeared to undercut a law, co-sponsored by Mr. Gore when he was a senator, that required economic sanctions against countries that transfer arms to countries that sponsor terrorism, including Iran.
The early years of the Gore-Chernomyrdin Commission yielded undeniable benefits, along with controversy. The two men sped the removal of nuclear weapons from Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan, discussed the privatization of much of Russian state industry, supervised the conversion of some Russian military enterprises to civilian work and took early steps toward establishment of free markets and the rule of law. Mr. Gore and Mr. Chernomyrdin furthered cooperation between the United States and Russia in space; their relationship helped avert a trade war in 1996 over frozen chicken parts.
The process throughout was fraught with missteps, charges of corruption and Russian backsliding on commitments to reform. The Gore-Chernomyrdin channel was abruptly closed in March 1998, when Boris Yeltsin dismissed Mr. Chernomyrdin.
But Mr. Gore's close ties to Mr. Chernomyrdin came into play again a year later when the United States was seeking an end to the latest Balkan conflict. Mr. Chernomyrdin was named Moscow's special envoy to Belgrade, with the task of trying to persuade Slobodan Milosevic to withdraw his troops from Kosovo. Mr. Gore and Mr. Chernomyrdin met late into the night at Mr. Gore's residence, helping to fashion a diplomatic strategy, ultimately successful, to force Mr. Milosevic to back down.
 
Junior Partner to President?
Throughout much of American history, the vice president has served chiefly as a reminder of presidential mortality. These eight years have proved another way of looking at the job. Mr. Clinton granted Mr. Gore broad power in areas of his expertise, and Mr. Gore applied it.
His list of achievements was long, according to administration officials and outside experts.
It was in large measure Mr. Gore's advocacy that moved Mr. Clinton to give the Food and Drug Administration authority to regulate tobacco as a drug and to restrict marketing of cigarettes to minors. (The agency's authority was struck down this year by the Supreme Court, which said such power resides only in Congress.)
Mr. Gore demolished Ross Perot in a debate on the North American Free Trade Agreement and helped secure passage of the trade deal over the objections of many Democrats in Congress.
The Federal Communications Commission, largely at the urging of the vice president, adopted a tax in 1996 on telecommunications companies to pay for wiring classrooms to the Internet.
Mr. Gore's commitment to breast cancer research led to a doubling of federal spending on breast cancer research, prevention and treatment, to $599 million last year, according to the vice president's office.
He pushed President Clinton to declare 40 million acres of public lands roadless areas and promoted the use of the Antiquities Act to set aside more acreage in the lower 48 states than any other administration.
"It is hard to think of another administration where the president and vice president were almost peers," said Professor John J. Pitney, professor of government at Claremont McKenna College in California. "These are two people who genuinely working as partners, albeit a very senior and a junior partner."
But for all his influence, the vice president seems destined to be remembered as much for his political shortcomings as for his substantive achievements. He began the administration as the cigar-store Indian, standing inertly behind the president's right shoulder. That image was replaced by one of him at a Buddhist temple in California, symbolizing the fund-raising excesses of 1996. His most memorable utterance was his declaration, on the day the House of Representatives impeached the president for perjury and obstruction of justice, that Mr. Clinton would be remembered as "one of our greatest presidents."
"When you are weighing presidential skills, there are several things you have to look at," Mr. Hess, the presidential scholar, said. "Does he have a vision for the country? Does he have the psychological wellness, the temperament for the office? Does he have organizational skills? Can he communicate?"
Does he? Can he?
"Frankly," Mr. Hess said, "after eight years, I'm not sure."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Al Gore had a hand in many events. Top left, on the day he cast the deciding Senate vote on a record deficit-reduction plan, in 1993, and, top right, at the announcement of a Bosnia agreement in 1995. Mr. Gore was also present when the president was impeached, above left, and he made a notable stumble in toasting Li Peng, the Chinese prime minister who ordered the Tiananmen Square crackdown. (Associated Press); (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); KOSOVO (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (54%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE COUNCIL (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE COUNCIL (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); KOSOVO (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); POLITICS (78%); HISTORY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); FUNDRAISING (71%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); CHILDREN (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (55%); GLOBAL WARMING (54%); MILITARY WEAPONS (53%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; BRODER, JOHN M; HENNEBERGER, MELINDA AL GORE (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



826 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16
 
Barak Reopens Parliament, And Orders New Strikes
Prime Minister Ehud Barak told returning legislators that he had "left no stone unturned" in pursuit of peace, but that Yasir Arafat had proved not to be a "partner for peace" and that Israelis must unite in a time of crisis. Hours later, he ordered missile attacks on Palestinian leadership offices after an Israeli man's bound and mutilated body was found at the edge of East Jerusalem, and a Palestinian gunman killed an Israeli security guard and wounded another in the city itself. A3 

Iraq to Resume Some Flights
Iraqi Airways, whose planes have been grounded much of the time since the Persian Gulf war in 1991, will resume domestic flights on Sunday, Iraqi news reports said. A4
 
Navy Orders Caution in Suez
Navy ships have been under orders to avoid the Suez Canal since Oct. 12, when 17 sailors were killed in the bombing of the destroyer Cole in Yemen, out of fear of another terrorist attack, senior officials said. A14
 
Madrid Car Bomb Kills 3
Gen. Jose Francisco Querol, a Spanish Supreme Court justice, was killed with his driver and bodyguard by a car bomb in Madrid. There was no claim of responsibility, but the attack followed the pattern of the Basque separatist group E.T.A. A7
 
Cuba-Venezuela Oil Alliance
Officials signed an agreement for Venezuela to supply one-third of Cuba's oil needs at cut-rate prices. The deal came at the end of Fidel Castro's five-day visit to Caracas. A16
 
Success for Kosovo Albanian
Ibrahim Rugova, who led his people on a 10-year campaign of peaceful protest for independence from Serbia, led his party to victory in 21 of 27 contested municipal elections on Saturday, results confirmed. A5
 
Protests After Zanzibar Vote
Police officers in Zanzibar, a part of Tanzania, opened fire on rock-throwing demonstrators protesting elections over incomplete or no ballot deliveries to numerous districts. A10
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A18-25
 
Bush Is Pushing Hard To Take California
Gov. George W. Bush campaigned in California instead of more closely contested Midwestern states, portraying Vice President Al Gore as someone who practices the "politics of division" and suggesting the Republicans would carry the state, a cornerstone of the last two Democratic Presidential victories. A1
 
Mr. Bush and the Republican Party spent $5.5 million on television commercials in California since June 1. Mr. Gore and the Democrats spent no money on television there. A23
 
Dick Cheney said Vice President Gore was "not up to the task" of being commander in chief. A22
 
Liberal Pressure on Nader
Liberal Democrats want Ralph Nader to endorse Al Gore in swing states, even as many liberals assail Mr. Nader as uninterested in abortion or gay and civil rights. A20
 
Mr. Gore promised that as president he would hold an average of one open meeting a week with ordinary citizens and would not add a single extra job to the federal government. A21
 
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman is in excellent health and has no condition that would bar his serving as vice president, he and his doctors said. A23
 
Succession in Missouri
Jean Carnahan, whose husband, Gov. Mel Carnahan, was killed in a plane crash this month, said she would accept gubernatorial appointment to the Senate in his place if voters chose his name over that of the Republican incumbent, Senator John Ashcroft, as polls suggest just may happen. A1
 
Clinton Vetoes Spending Bill
Intensifying the budget battle, President Clinton vetoed an $18.1 billion spending bill that finances the operations of the Treasury Department, the White House and Congress. A1
 
Clinton Weighs Secrecy Bill
Administration officials said there was sharp division over whether President Clinton should veto a bill that would tighten the lid of secrecy on government information. A24
 
Survey on Interfaith Marriage
Most American Jews accept marriages between Jews and non-Jews, in contrast with the positions held by many rabbis, a survey by the American Jewish Committee found. A25
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-11
 
Verdict Is Overturned In Death of Firefighter
A judge in Queens set aside the 1996 conviction of Edwin Smith, a homeless parolee convicted of arson and murder in an apparently accidental fire that killed a firefighter. The judge ruled a defense lawyer did not offer adequate advice on several plea offers from the prosecution. B1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Parade Honors Yankees
Hundreds of thousands of people jammed Lower Manhattan to throw confetti and cheer the Yankees for their World Series triumph. B1
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
EDUCATION
 
Plan to Gain CUNY Prestige
Chancellor Matthew Goldstein is seeking to raise the status of select CUNY programs to levels of national prominence, but not to consolidate them on one star campus. B1
 
FASHION B12
 
ARTS E1-10
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-12
 
Nursing Home Violations
Congressional investigators found widespread violations of federal health and safety standards at nursing homes in California, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and Texas. A24
 
Work on New Hepatitis Vaccine
Researchers said they had moved a step closer to making an edible vaccine against hepatitis B, a potentially deadly virus that infects millions. F3
 
Deadly Game
Some biologists say American hunters should be warned about a malady similar to mad cow disease that has infected wild deer and elk in parts of Colorado and Wyoming. F5
 
Health & Fitness F7
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
Americans in Paris
The strong United States economy and dollar are leading about 12.4 million Americans to Europe this year, a 6 percent increase over 1999 and the eighth straight year of record traffic to Europe, according to the European Travel Commission. A1
 
Automaker Signals Turnaround
Nissan Motor reported a solid half-year profit, the first evidence of a turnaround in the carmaker's fortunes since Renault rescued it from insolvency last year. Nissan also more than quadrupled projections for profits this year. C1
 
Bailing Out of Globalstar
Investors fled the already beaten down stock and bonds of Globalstar Telecommunications, the Bermuda-based operating arm of the satellite phone company Globalstar. The exodus followed disappointing third-quarter earnings and remarks by Bernard L. Schwartz, the Loral chairman and chief executive, saying his company, a major investor, would make no further sacrifices to bail out the $4.3 billion venture. C1
 
A Two-Way Street
The Dow gained 2.3 percent, or 245.15 points, to 10,835.77, while the Nasdaq fell 2.7 percent, or 86.96 points, to 3,191.40. The S.& P. 500 rose 1.4 percent, or 19.08 points, to 1,398.66. C18
 
Business Digest C1
 
World Business W1-8
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: A report card on attack politics; Europe's last tyrant; for Congress from Connecticut.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Gail Collins.
 
Crossword E4
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (93%); SERBIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); SPAIN (92%); CUBA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); YEMEN (79%); ALBANIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); GULF STATES (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: ORDERS NEW STRIKES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORDERS NEW STRIKES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (93%); SERBIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); SPAIN (92%); CUBA (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); YEMEN (79%); ALBANIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); GULF STATES (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); DESERT STORM (75%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); AIRLINES (74%); NAVIES (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); CITIES (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); LIBERALISM (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); SUPREME COURTS (52%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (90%); AL GORE (86%); RALPH NADER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); DICK CHENEY (54%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



827 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled By Savannah Waring Walker

 BODY:

ASIA
 
KYRGYZSTAN: PRESIDENT RE-ELECTED -- Askar Akayev was re-elected to a third term with nearly 75 percent of the vote in a six-man race, according to unofficial results released by the Central Election Commission. His nearest competitor was Omurbek Tekebayev, deputy speaker of the Parliament, who had 14 percent. The election was marred by intimidation and instances of ballot-box stuffing, said the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and other groups that monitored voting, but President Akayev called it fair and democratic. Douglas Frantz (NYT) 

PAKISTAN: EX-LEADER LOSES COURT APPEAL -- A Pakistani court rejected the appeal of the ousted Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif against his conviction for hijacking, court officials said. But a three-judge bench of the High Court of Sindh Province, whose capital is Karachi, also rejected a government appeal to turn Mr. Sharif's life imprisonment to a death sentence. He was sentenced in April to two life terms on charges of hijacking and terrorism for ordering the diversion of a plane carrying the military leader, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, and about 200 others from Sri Lanka to Karachi. (Reuters)
 
INDIA: 'SUCCESSFUL' N-TESTS -- The Atomic Energy Commission chairman, Rajagopala Chidambaram, told a group of scientists at the Bhaba Atomic Research Center in Bombay that the five nuclear weapons tests India conducted in 1998 were "completely successful" and gave India the ability "to design and fabricate weapons from low yield to around 200 kilotons." Some experts in India and abroad have doubted the efficacy of the 1998 nuclear tests. Celia W. Dugger (NYT)
 
SRI LANKA: RENEWED CURFEW -- The government reimposed a curfew in two of the country's central tea-growing districts as tensions between the majority Sinhalese population and the Tamil minority continued to run high. A Sinhalese mob massacred 27 detained Tamil rebels on Wednesday. Rioting broke out Sunday after the funeral of one of the Tamils. Celia W. Dugger (NYT)
 
LAOS: REMAINS RETURNED TO U.S. -- The government announced that it had given the United States the remains of four Americans listed as missing in action during the Vietnam War. The remains were handed over to American officials in a weekend ceremony the Laotian capital, Vientiane, the KPL news agency reported. They will be taken to the Army's Central Identification Lab in Hawaii for forensic tests. (AP)
 
PHILIPPINES: LEADERS' RIFT -- The vice president, Gloria Arroyo, who leads the opposition and is next in line for the presidency, rejected President Joseph Estrada's offer to head an economic panel to shore up investor confidence shattered by a bribery scandal. She also turned down Mr. Estrada's invitation to meet with the National Security Council to ease the political crisis. "I cannot accept the position that he offered me," Ms. Arroyo said on television. "It will not help restore credibility." (Agence France-Presse)
 
EUROPE
 
IRELAND: 'MAD COW' FEARS -- Residents of Galway, fearful of a contaminated water supply from "mad cow" disease, have dug up the carcass of an infected animal and returned it to its owner's farmyard. The opposition Labor Party environment spokesman, Eamon Gilmore, described the burial as "effectively poisoning" the water and said it went against advice on the disease given by a government scientific advisory panel last summer. The executive engineer in Galway County Council's environment department, John McMyler, has threatened to sue Ireland's Department of Agriculture under environmental pollution laws. (Agence France-Presse)
 
TURKEY: INFLATED CENSUS? -- A week after Turks were confined to their homes for a daylong national census, government officials are trying to figure out how the count came up with five million more people than estimated. The population was supposed to be 65 million to 66 million, but the initial figure is more than 71 million. Few people believe the country is that populous, and census officials suspect local governments inflated the count to receive more money from the national budget, which is allocated on a per-capita basis. Some cities showed that populations had doubled in three years, and in one region, municipal officials were accused of counting tombstones. Douglas Frantz (NYT)
 
FRANCE: PUTIN VISIT -- On his first visit to France since taking office, President Vladimir V. Putin arrived for a meeting with European Union leaders. Though he travels frequently, Mr. Putin had avoided France, apparently because of its vocal opposition to the war in Chechnya. He was expected to discuss increasing exports of Russian oil and gas to Europe, as well as Europe's plans for a rapid-reaction force.
 Donald G. McNeil Jr. (NYT)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
PERU: REBELS WEAKEN -- A one-day rebellion by 60 soldiers began to crumble with desertions of up to 20 soldiers. After the rebels released four civilians held hostage, a general they held was rescued, the army said. The rebels, in Puno Province, are demanding the resignation of President Alberto K. Fujimori and the arrest of his former spy chief, Vladimiro Montesinos. Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
CHILE: RIGHTIST WINS MAYORALTY -- Joaquin Lavin, the rightist who narrowly lost the presidency last year, won election as mayor of Santiago. In municipal voting around the country, the governing center-left Concertacion won a majority of the votes, but the rightists won mayoral elections in several large cities normally governed by the left. Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
MEXICO: AMERICANS EVICTED -- More than 100 federal police officers, acting on an order from the high court, began evicting several dozen Americans from their homes on 45 acres of coastland in Baja California, government officials said. The Americans bought or leased the oceanfront properties in good faith from a Mexican land collective, the court ruled last week, but the collective had no right to the land, and Mexican law bars foreigners from owning property within 35 miles of the sea. Tim Weiner (NYT)
 
MEXICO: ECOLOGISTS' SENTENCES UPHELD -- An appeals court has upheld the sentences of two peasant farmers active in an ecologists' movement, despite a federal rights panel's finding that the men were framed by army officers. The ruling, issued late Friday but not made public over the weekend, confirmed marijuana- and weapons-possession convictions against Rodolfo Montiel, leader of the peasant farmers' movement, which opposed illegal logging in the state of Guerrero, and Teodoro Cabrera, a member of the group. Tim Weiner (NYT)
 
MEXICO: CAPITAL PROTEST -- Some 10,000 civil servants blocked major streets in Mexico City to protest President Ernesto Zedillo's decision not to pay them a bonus when he leaves office on Dec. 1. Bonuses were first given in the 1980's by the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party as a kind of payment for loyalty at work and at the polls. But last July the party lost the presidency for the first time in its history. Mr. Zedillo's refusal to pay the bonuses -- worth about $500 million -- is widely seen as part of the fallout of the shifting political landscape. Ginger Thompson (NYT)
 
CANADA: THIRD ARREST IN JET BLAST -- The Vancouver police have arrested a third suspect in the 1985 bombing of an Air India jet. Hardial Singh Johal, former head of a Vancouver-area Sikh temple, was detained hours before Ripudaman Singh Malik and Ajaib Singh Bagri, both followers of a fundamentalist Sikh group, appeared in court in Vancouver. James Brooke (NYT)
 
AFRICA
 
ZAMBIA: KAUNDA AGAIN A CITIZEN -- With the withdrawal of a court case challenging his nationality, former President Kenneth Kaunda was given back Zambian citizenship. Mr. Kaunda, the father of modern Zambia, who governed for 27 years, was stripped of his citizenship last year after a petition by members of the ruling Movement for Multiparty Democracy. In the new court proceeding, Patrick Katyoka, one of those who brought the challenge, formally withdrew it, saying he and his party colleagues believed that Mr. Kaunda was a statesman who deserved respect. (Agence France-Presse)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (92%); ASIA (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); PAKISTAN (91%); PHILIPPINES (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (91%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (92%); ASIA (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); PAKISTAN (91%); PHILIPPINES (79%); EUROPE (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (91%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES SENTENCING (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); HIJACKING (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); EVIDENCE (75%); APPEALS (75%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); ARMIES (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (70%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); TERRORISM (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); FORENSICS (69%); BRIBERY (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); RIOTS (63%); TEA (50%); SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: NAWAZ SHARIF (69%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



828 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1656 words

HEADLINE: Lazio Sought to Make a Legislative Mark in Housing

SERIES: RACE FOR THE SENATE/Issues: Housing

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
Nothing in Representative Rick A. Lazio's career gives him greater pride than his record on housing.
As a young congressman, he made housing his focal issue. It was an unorthodox choice, especially for a Republican representing suburban Long Island, far from the federally financed high-rise projects of New York City. 
 In 1995, Newt Gingrich, who was then speaker of the House, rewarded Mr. Lazio's loyalty to Republicans by naming him chairman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity: a remarkable promotion for someone just finishing his freshman term and a position he has used in his Senate campaign against Hillary Rodham Clinton to highlight his housing expertise.
"I've been very active on housing issues, on helping the homeless, helping poor people with public housing, helping Native Americans," Mr. Lazio said in the campaign's final debate on Friday. He said that he had also fought for affordable housing and for housing with extra services for the elderly.
In her own housing proposals, Mrs. Clinton has called for tripling the number of federal rental aid vouchers to 330,000 nationally at a cost of $2 billion. She also advocates more public housing; renewed tax credits of $1 billion annually to build 180,000 low-income homes in five years; raising the limits on federally sponsored mortgages to $250,000 from $217,000; and increasing aid to $75 million a year, from $30 million, for centers to house and assist the elderly and disabled.
She and others have criticized Mr. Lazio's record, but opinions among housing groups and officials are mixed.
"Special-needs groups like him a lot; public housing people don't like him at all," said Irene E. Baldwin, director of the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development, a coalition of 90 neighborhood groups.
Other organizations gave Mr. Lazio high marks as a champion of their causes. "Lazio has really taken a leadership role for people with disabilities," said Andrew Sperling, policy director for the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, based in Virginia. The president of the New York Association of Homes and Services for the Aging, Carl Young, called Mr. Lazio "one of the few in Congress who understood" the issues of housing and serving the elderly. Christopher D. Boesen, a onetime Lazio aide and now director of the National American Indian Housing Council, called him "an unlikely hero of Indian housing."
Mr. Lazio has campaigned enthusiastically on his housing record: he devoted his first policy speech of the campaign to the topic, and a television ad on his legislative achievements leads with that subject. He declined to discuss his record for this article.
The Lazio for Senate Web site promotes 20 housing accomplishments, each with its own page. "As housing chairman, Lazio is responsible for leading Congressional efforts to reform housing and community policies for the 21st century," the Web site says.
Some critics say Mr. Lazio has hurt housing aid for the poor and for families. They note that he was a deputy whip to Mr. Gingrich, who called for abolishing the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Lazio told Newsday in 1996 that he singlehandedly saved HUD: "This may sound maybe arrogant, but if I was not in the House, it would have passed an elimination of HUD."
Some consider Mr. Lazio's own proposals to be more far-reaching than even the Gingrich agenda. Mr. Lazio proposed the repeal of the Housing Act of 1937 -- a cornerstone of Roosevelt's New Deal, the foundation of national housing policy and of 160 later laws.
Congress refused to go along with the repeal, but the Republican majority did cut funds for housing. Early in Mr. Lazio's chairmanship, Congress imposed a record cut of one-fourth, or $6 billion, in HUD's budget, without hearings. For the first time since rental aid began in the 1970's, new vouchers for the needy were cut off, a freeze that lasted four years until Housing Secretary Andrew M. Cuomo forced a showdown.
"Basically, housing programs have never recovered," said the subcommittee's ranking Democrat at the time, Joseph P. Kennedy II of Massachusetts. Despite long waiting lists, Congress halted major new construction. The committee's current top Democrat, Barney Frank of Massachusetts, said Mr. Lazio "helped get the federal government out of the business of increasing the affordable housing supply."
A spokesman for Mr. Lazio, Dan McLagan, responded: "It's funny that virtually everyone on the left, including President Clinton and Cuomo II, had nothing but praise for Rick Lazio on housing until he ran against Hillary Clinton."
Some critics say Mr. Lazio passed few significant bills in his committee. Much legislation that he claims as his is similar to Clinton administration proposals and other legislators' bills, they say. Some programs he takes credit for, like the one to house urban teachers near their schools, were already operating under prior laws.
Despite Mr. Lazio's charm, some politicians say that his stubbornness exasperated key Republicans, dooming pet proposals to legislative gridlock. He crossed swords with powers like former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York and the Senate's housing chairman, Connie Mack of Florida. One such dispute was over a move to restore cuts on housing for the elderly.
"I remember that D'Amato and Connie Mack were just outraged that Rick was trying to hold up this money" for that program, said Representative Michael P. Forbes, a Republican-turned-Democrat in a district next to Mr. Lazio's. "They fought him every step of the way."
Mr. Mack said: "Listen, I was right in the middle of this, and all of us had particular concerns, so it's natural that you bump heads. He's got an incredibly upbeat personality, but he can be tough as hell. He can be tenacious." But the end result, he said, was solid legislation on various housing issues.
Mr. Lazio has also clashed with Mr. Cuomo, a rival not only on housing but also in statewide political aspirations. Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, supports Mrs. Clinton.
Big donations from the housing industry to the Lazio campaign were the cause of a heated exchange between Mr. Lazio and Mrs. Clinton in their last debate. She accused him of accepting donations from the manufactured housing industry and then sponsoring legislation "to weaken the safety standards" for such housing.
Mr. Lazio vehemently denied her charge. "That's absolutely false, and you know it, Mrs. Clinton," he said. He claimed that his proposal had been endorsed by HUD and by the American Association of Retired Persons. But his original bill was opposed by both HUD and A.A.R.P., and only after he made concessions did they back a later compromise.
Mrs. Clinton has also accused Mr. Lazio of voting the way that donors in the mortgage banking industry wanted and against his district's interests by opposing bigger government-backed mortgages for high-cost areas like his own.
The paramount achievement that Mr. Lazio cites is the Quality Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998. "The most sweeping reform in public housing history was authored by me and passed in the House and signed into law, which I'm proud to say," he said in the debate.
Others say that he took too much credit, and that he delayed passage of the legislation. In 1995, he introduced a radical revamping of public housing that echoed the overhaul of welfare. He proposed civic work duties for residents, time limits on residency, higher rents, a change of more than half the makeup of public housing from poor to moderate income and privatizing New York City's public housing.
"It was a hurricane-force attack on public housing residents," said Victor Bach, housing analyst for the Community Service Society, a 150-year-old nonprofit agency.
Mr. Lazio has said that his main goal was to upgrade the quality of life for everyone in public housing by ensuring that more working people lived there to provide role models for children and a more mixed economic base.
Mr. Lazio portrayed public housing as "hulks of despair." Despite the vivid demolition of a few bad projects, Mr. Kennedy said that the stereotype "was not true of New York City and not true of 90 percent of public housing in America."
Unable to win over his own party and unwilling to compromise, Mr. Lazio saw his plan languish for three years. Finally Senate leaders negotiated crucial issues with Mr. Cuomo through another committee. This committee passed a new bill, which became law.
Some of the Lazio proposals were either dropped or watered down. Public housing managers who had supported his proposals to give them more control were disappointed. "The final product was not as far-reaching as my membership would have liked," said Timothy G. Kaiser, executive director of the Public Housing Authorities Directors Association, a national group.
The work requirement survived, but with more exemptions. The final law also reserved some public housing for moderate-income families, but much less than Mr. Lazio wanted. While workers are desirable role models, Mr. Kennedy said, making room for them means keeping out the neediest people, those without jobs.
Nationally, four million families live in public housing, subsidized apartments or rental units aided by vouchers. Ten million more are eligible, but years of cuts leave little hope. Ed Williams, president of the Public Housing Residents National Organizing Campaign, a tenants group, said: "Most folks on the waiting list will never, ever get a chance."
In New York City alone, said Mr. Bach, the modified Lazio change "will close more doors to about 15,000 families on the waiting list in 10 years."
 
RACE FOR THE SENATE
Issues: Housing
 
This is the fifth in a series of articles examining positions of the candidates in the New York Senate race. The others looked at taxes, social services, foreign policy and education. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

LEGISLATION: 104 P.L. 330 NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING ASSISTANCE AND SELF-DETERMINATION ACT OF 1996 (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; ELECTION ISSUES; HOUSING LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (88%); SENIOR CITIZENS (87%); DISABLED PERSONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); HOMELESSNESS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); AGING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); TAX LAW (67%); MENTAL ILLNESS (64%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



829 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000

SECTION: Section W; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: AMERICAS;
ECUADOR PRICES MODERATE AFTER FREEZE

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Ecuador's inflation accelerated 2.7 percent in October after the end of a five-month price-fixing agreement between the government and industry heads on 123 consumer items. Consumer prices rose 2.7 percent compared with 3.7 percent in September, the National Statistics Institute said. Inflation accelerated to 82.5 percent in the first 10 months and 104.9 percent in the last 12 months, the institute said. Ecuador's economy shrank by 7.3 percent last year after a pounding by the El Nino weather pattern, the near collapse of its banking system and the demise of the sucre currency, which was abandoned this year in favor of the United States dollar. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL STATISTICS INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL STATISTICS INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; ECUADOR (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); US DOLLAR (88%); STATISTICS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); WEATHER (85%); PRICE FIXING (85%); TRENDS (84%); EL NINO & LA NINA (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000



830 of 830 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Vision of CUNY As a Contender In Select Fields

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
For years, there has been talk about elevating one or two colleges of the City University of New York to flagship campuses with research capacity, prestige and drawing power like that of the Berkeley campus of the University of California.
But CUNY officials have found it difficult to make the case. Top-ranked research institutions are extremely expensive. New York City and New York State already have an abundance of first-tier private research universities. And elevating one institution over another would be virtually impossible politically in a city where borough presidents and other government officials cherish their Hunters and Lehmans. 
 Rather than trying to make the case for a flagship campus, Matthew Goldstein, CUNY's chancellor, has begun trying to sell a different vision, one that he says would achieve some of the same benefits in prestige and economic impact but cost far less.
Under the strategy, which he has taken on the road in recent weeks, Dr. Goldstein is trying to raise the status of select programs at various campuses to levels of national prominence, but not consolidate them on one star campus. He would also like to attract more top students by giving them special treatment.
In doing so, he hopes "to change the conversation" about CUNY from one that dwells on remediation and failure to one that emphasizes the university's stellar professors and other strengths, he said.
CUNY has already begun to put the plan in place. It formed the backbone of the university's master plan, which the State Board of Regents approved last month. Since last year, 20 percent of all new faculty members have been senior professors hired for specific programs at select CUNY colleges.
Last year, the hiring focused on four fields -- photonics, new media and computer science, teacher education and foreign languages -- fields in which CUNY already had some strength and wanted more prominence. This year, it added structural biology and art history and the visual arts. In photonics, the study of the use of light to transmit information, City College, in Manhattan, will get a large share of the new faculty members, but other campuses will get some, too.
Last week, to win support and allies, Dr. Goldstein presented the strategy -- which he calls "creating a flagship environment" -- to more than 200 business executives, civic leaders and educators at meetings held by the New York University School of Education and by the Center for Educational Innovation-Public Education Association.
"You might ask why we do not have an Ann Arbor or a Chapel Hill or a Berkeley," Dr. Goldstein said, naming some highly regarded flagship academic institutions at an N.Y.U. breakfast. The answer is, "It's not appropriate," he said.
He said CUNY had a limited budget and 20 campuses in close proximity. Investing selectively, he said, will allow CUNY to build strengths "that emulate some of the great flagship campuses" and serve as a symbol of excellence. CUNY, which serves nearly 200,000 students, has a budget of $1.4 billion for the 2000-2001 year.
At both meetings, the strategy was greeted with interest and applause by many outside the university.
"It's a responsible, interesting idea that seems to be well thought out and consistent with the university's mission," said one of the speakers at the N.Y.U. meeting, Patrick Callan, president of the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education in San Jose, Calif.
It would be impossible for CUNY to recreate a Berkeley, particularly in a short amount of time, he said. "This seems to me to be a more realistic approach," he added. "I have no idea if it will work, but it was not dreamed up out of whole cloth."
Seymour Fliegel, president of the Center for Educational Innovation-Public Education Association and a City College graduate, also applauded the plan.
"If we can restore CUNY to some degree of national prominence, it would be wonderful for the kids who go there," he said yesterday. "Goldstein's trying to really upgrade the university, and I think he already has. You don't hear all that negative stuff about CUNY anymore."
Inside CUNY, however, not everyone is applauding. Many faculty leaders say the plan does not go far enough to restore the university's health after years of budget cuts.
Barbara Bowen, president of the Professional Staff Congress, the faculty and staff union, said she welcomed the hiring of more full-time faculty members but stressed that the rebuilding of CUNY ought to take place in all departments, not just a few.
"We are not arguing for a little here and a little there," she said. "We are arguing for a change in the public mind-set. New York City and New York State need a great university. The alternative to flagship programs is a serious long-term effort to turn around the entire university."
Bernard Sohmer, chairman of CUNY's faculty senate, said the changes might help CUNY in the graduate school rankings, but "will mostly be peripheral to undergraduate education."
But Dr. Goldstein contends that image and substance are both important, and that building some high-profile academic programs will help CUNY attract more public money for those programs and for the university in general.
"As the university starts to reclaim its position in higher education, it will be very hard for the governor and the mayor to deny us more funding," he said.
The strategy of backing the strongest professors from all campuses parallels CUNY's consortium-style graduate program, which draws its faculty from all campuses to one central graduate campus in mid-Manhattan. Of the 22 CUNY graduate center programs that were evaluated in a National Research Council survey published in 1995, 9 were ranked among the top 20 nationally.
CUNY has also begun to recruit 100 students for a university-wide honors program on five campuses: Baruch, Brooklyn, City, Hunter and Queens Colleges. The program, which it plans to expand eventually, will piggyback on the honors programs already on some campuses. Each student will be guaranteed full tuition, a laptop computer and other perquisites. Most will also participate in honors programs on their home campuses, where they are often put into smaller classes with distinguished professors.
Some professors have expressed concerns that minority students may not be well represented in a university-wide honors program and that extra money spent on a few honors students means less money for everyone else.
But the audiences last week were more encouraging. Many at the N.Y.U. gathering seemed to share the opinion of Ann Marcus, dean of N.Y.U.'s School of Education, who said, "Goldstein inspires confidence in people."
"Even people who think the flagship idea is window dressing are won over by his demeanor and confidence," she said. "He is beginning to communicate with a lot of different constituencies who are starting to feel that maybe this place is worth looking at."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday about City University's efforts to hire outstanding scholars misspelled the surnames of two award-winning faculty members. They are Profs. Jill Bargonetti (not Bargontti) and Judith Summerfield (not Sommerfield). The caption also referred imprecisely to them and to Edwin G. Burrows, John Corigliano, Cecilia Macheski and Daniel Akins. CUNY officials cited them as examples of the caliber of professor it sought to recruit; none of the six were recently hired.

GRAPHIC: Photo: CUNY is hiring top professors to enhance its status. Some recent award winners are, clockwise from left, Edwin G. Burrows, Cecilia Macheski, John Corigliano, Jill Bargontti, Daniel Akins and Judith Sommerfield. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); RANKINGS (73%); HISTORY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); TEACHER EDUCATION (69%); ART HISTORY (66%); VISUAL ARTS (61%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (61%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (50%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; GOLDSTEIN, MATTHEW (DR) MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000

 
